ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. Please, registration mode. Mrs. Angelkova, good morning!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u2	Good morning!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u3	We have a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Registered 121 in the hall plus 1 remote 62 is the required number of MPs to make a decision on today's plenary day. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose to include the following additional item in the weekly Work Programme of the National Assembly: Draft Law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement on the Posting of Employees between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. Importer of the Council of Ministers, on 19 February 2021, by proposing to be the first item in the Programme for today, 26 February 2021, as well as to examine the second vote of the Bill amending and supplementing measures against money laundering. Importer of the Council of Ministers, on 29 December 2020, adopted on the first vote on 20 January 2021, proposing to be item four in the Programme for today, 26 February 2021, and the remaining points are respectively renumbered. Parliamentary control shall begin after the examination of the fixed points has been completed for the day. Here you are, Mr. Tzipov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u4	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! In connection with the upcoming vote, my procedure is to do a roll call check.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. Adlen Shukri Shevked is absent. Albena Vladimirova Naydenova- here Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov- absent Alexander Ivanov Matsurev- here Alexander Koychev Ivanov- here Aleksandar Mairov Siddi-here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov- here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov- here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- here Aleksandar Tihomirov Simov- here Altimir Emilov Adamov- here Anastas Marinov Popdimitrov- absent Angel Iliev Isaev- absent Andrian Ivanov Raykov-- here. Anna Vasileva Alexandrova- here Anna Nikolaeva Slavova- absent Anton Konstantinov Kutev- absent Asya Atanasova Peeva- here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov- absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov is absent. Bogdan Emilov Botsev- absent Boris Vangelov Borisov- here Boris Petkov Kirchev- here Boris Yankov Yachev- here Borislav Ivanov Borisov- here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva- here Bürhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Valentin Georgiev Lambev- absent Valentin Ivanov Radev- here Valentin Mirchov Milushev- here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova- here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- here Vasil Milanov Antonov- here Vasil Tsvetkov- here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva- absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova- here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva- absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva- absent Violeta Ruseva Jeleva - absent Vladimir Slavchev Valev- here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Горги Александров Александров- here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov- here Georgi Georgiev Stoilov- absent Georgi Dimitrov Andreev- absent Georgi Evdokiev Markov- absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev- here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov- absent Georgi Kolev Kolev- here Georgi Nikolov Vergiev- here Georgi Strahilov Svilenski- here Georgi Tenev Stankov- here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov- here Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova- absent Daniel Petkov Yordanov- here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova- here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova- here Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova- here Dean Stoyanov Stanchev- here Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Desislaw Petrov Taskov- here Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislava Angelova Todorova- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva- here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is absent. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev- here Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov- here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov- here Dobrin Nenov Danev- absent Donka Dimova Simeonova- absent Dora Ilieva Yankova- absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova- here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- here Evgeni Genchev Budinov- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Evdokia Slavchova Asenova- absent Elena Vladimirova Angelina - absent Elena Stefanova Pesheva- here Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov- absent Emil Marinov Hristov- here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev- here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Errol Osman Mehmet-- absent. Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- here Brought to you by Vassilev Iankov- here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- here Ivan Dimov Ivanov- absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev- absent Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- here Ivan Stefanov Valkov- here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov- absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva- here Ivo Angelov Hristov- absent Iglika Ivanova-Subeva- here Ilian Angelov Timchev- here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova- absent Irena Metodieva Dimova- here Irena Todorova Anastasova- here Honest Vasilev Veselinov- here Ihsan Halil Hakke is absent Yordan Apostolov-Apostolov is absent Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev- here Kalin Lubenov Velev- here Kalin Nikolov Popovski- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - absent Konstantin Veselinov Popov- here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov- here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- here Krasimir Mitkov Subev- here Krasimir Hristov Jankov- absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin- here Cristina Maximova Sidorova- here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov- here Krastina Nikolova Takova- missing Lalo Georgiev Kirilov- absent Lilyana Drumeva Radeva- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev- here Manoil Minchev Manev- here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova- absent Maria Yordanova Ilieva- here Maria Yordanova Tsvetkova- here Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Stefanov Obreshkov- absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- here Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov- here Mitko Kostadinov Polychronov- here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov- absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov- here Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova- here Nelly Ruskova Petrova- here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer is absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov- absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev- absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- here Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov- absent Nikolay Dimitrov Penev- absent Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov- here Nikolay Krastev Boshkov- here Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov- here Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova (via internet platform for video conference link) - here Nona Krasteva Yotova- here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov- absent Pavel Mikhaylov Savov- here Petar Georgiev Kanev- here Peter Hristov Petrov- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev- here Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Tachev Petrov- here Plamen Trifonov Hristov- here Polina Alexandrova Shishkova- absent Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova- here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev- here Radoslava Plamen Chekanska- here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev- here Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva- here Ramadan Bajram Atali is absent Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov- here Rosen Malinov Malinov-- here. Rumen Vasilev Gechev- here Rumen Nikolov Georgiev- here Rumen Petrov Genov- here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev- here There's a quorum. We're continuing the hearing. Please vote on the procedure so I have made to include the additional items on the agenda for today. They voted 133 MPs: 97 against 9, abstention 27. The motion is accepted. Messages: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 15, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I inform you that I am leaving the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Ivan Dimov Ivanov Message: The National Assembly received a Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 21 January 2021 until 20 February 2021 and Protocol No 6 of the Meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, held on 22 February 2021, at which the Report was reviewed and discussed. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT ON THE COMMANDATION OF OFFICERS BETWEEN THE MINISTERY OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE ECONOMIC COOPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATION. With the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, Mrs. Angelova will introduce us. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u6	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Framework Agreement on the Posting of Employees between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, No 102-02-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 February 2021. At a meeting held on 25 February 2021, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Marinella Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance. The Framework Agreement on the Posting of Employees between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development was signed on 20 February 2020 in Sofia and on 2 March 2020 in Paris in implementation of Decision No 92 of the Council of Ministers of 2020. The accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (DCI) is a cause of high importance for the country, as the activities of this organization cover almost all aspects of socio-economic life. The Republic of Bulgaria implements enhanced cooperation with the OECD in various fields, and through the Ministry of Finance participates regularly in the work of a number of bodies and initiatives of the organization in the field of tax and administrative cooperation, budget and others. The possibility of sending employees from countries wishing to join the OECD is standard practice when conducting different reviews of the country concerned. It provides an opportunity to share knowledge and experience in the specific fields of cooperation with the OECD. The objective of the Framework Agreement between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the OECD is to provide a common framework through which the employees of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria will be posted to the OECD. The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development will draw up a draft agreement with the sending administration on the secondment of each employee, with all the travel and stay expenses of the employees during the mission being borne by the sending administration. The means of securing missions will be provided for in the framework of the budgetary procedure for the year in question in due time. The Framework Agreement presupposes financial commitments to the Bulgarian side regarding the posting of employees and contains a clause for the arbitration settlement of possible disputes, as well as certain arrangements for the posting of persons who deviate from the rules of the Civil Service Act. It is envisaged ratification by the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5, 7 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Following the discussion of the draft, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: with 13 votes in favour, without abstention and abstention, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Draft for ratification of the Framework Agreement on the posting of staff between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, No 102-02-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 February 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u7	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, fellow Members. I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill for ratification of the Framework Agreement on the Posting of Employees between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, No 102-02-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Vote 119 MPs: 110 against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u8	Dear Mr. President, I ask for a procedure under the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to put to the second vote the newly adopted Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u9	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 111 MPs: 106, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please present the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u10	THE LAW OF THE on ratification of the Framework Agreement on the Posting of Employees between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development A single member. He ratified the Framework Agreement on the Posting of Employees between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, signed on 20 February 2020 in Sofia and on 2 March 2020 in Paris. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u11	Thank you. Speeches.. I open the debates? There aren't any. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the texts presented to you. Voted 118 MPs: 113, no objection, abstention 5. The texts put to the vote have been adopted. Let's continue with: THE SECOND BENEFICEMENT OF THE LAWS FOR DELIVERIES AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE BULGARIAN CIVILITY THE GENERAL PROJECT WORKED BY THE COMMISSION ON LEGAL QUESTIONS ABOUT THE ACCEPTIONS OF THE FIRST VOICE OF THE 29 OCTOBER 2020 THE LAWS WITH THE IMPORTERS: THE MINISTER'S COUNCIL, 8 OCTOBER 2019; JORDAN TSONEV AND THE GROUP OF PEOPLE'S PRESENTERS, 20 MARCH 2020; THE MINISTER'S COUNCIL, 27 MART 2020 Ms. Alexandrova, you have the floor to present the Committee on Legal Affairs Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Report on General Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, No 053-03-71 of 4 November 2020, drawn up on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the basis of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, No 902-01-51, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 October 2019, Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, No 054-01-26, submitted by Jordan Kirilov Tsonev and a group of MPs on 20 March 2020, and Draft Supplement to the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship, No 002-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 March 2020. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship and the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Option I of § 1 and option II of § 1. Proposal of the MPs Manoil Manev, Alexander Ivanov. Alexander Nenkov, Valentin Milushev, Ivan Valkov, Ivan Mihovski, Vladimir Valev and Toma Bikov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission does not support the version of the importer for option I, generally supports the version of the importer for option II and proposes the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12a The following 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in it after the word "residence" is added in the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. The creation of para. 2: (2) A person who is not a Bulgarian citizen shall be the spouse of a person who has received a permanent residence permit in the Republic of Bulgaria on the basis of art. 25, para. 1, t. 6, 7, 13 or 16 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria and not less than three years before the date of application for naturalization has been granted permission for permanent residence in the Republic of Bulgaria, may acquire Bulgarian citizenship if it complies with the requirements of art. 12, para. 1, t. 1, 3 and 4 and the husband has acquired Bulgarian citizenship in naturalization under art. 14a, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Option I of § 2. By option II of § 2, there is a proposal of the MPs Manoil Manev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission does not support the version of the importer for option I, generally supports the version of the importer for option II and proposes the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14a the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para 1: (a) c. 1 points (a) and (b) are amended as follows: (s) has doubled its investment under the same conditions of the law, or b) has invested in the country by depositing in the capital of a Bulgarian trading company an additional amount of not less than BGN 1 000 000. for a priority investment project carried out by the company certified under the Investment Promotion Act; (b) To be created t. 3: "3." not less than one year ago he received a permanent residence permit in the Republic of Bulgaria on the basis of art. 25, para. 1, t. 16 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, increased investment under the same conditions of the law to at least BGN 1 000 000. and as a result of the investments, at least 20 new jobs for Bulgarian citizens have been opened. 2. The creation of para. 4. (4) The order for the establishment and subsequent control of the circumstances and conditions under para. 1 implemented by the Ministry of Economy and by the Bulgarian Investment Agency are determined by a regulation of the Minister of Economy. According to § 3 there is a proposal of the MPs Manoil Manev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle, i.e. 2 is reflected in its systematic place in § 5. Proposal of the MPs Boris Vangelov, Julian Angelov, Krasimir Bogdanov, Milen Mihov, Stoyan Bozhinov, Kalin Popovski, Yordan Yordanov, Deyan Stanchev u Alexander Siddi: In Paragraph 3 of Article 3 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the following shall be added: 15, para. 3 After the words are found, the President of the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad, issued on the basis of an opinion. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15 the following 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: (2) In the proceedings for acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship in naturalization under para. 1, t. 1 the application shall provide official documents issued by Bulgarian or foreign authorities, with which the applicant certify that he is related to at least one person, his ascendant to the third degree, including that of Bulgarian origin. The documents must contain information on the names of the ascending and related relationship with the 2. Allinea 3 is canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u13	Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I will put to the vote the texts of the importer and the amendments proposed by the Commission for the name of the Law and for § 1. They voted 121 MPs: 88, against 27, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the amendment for § 2. 110 MPs voted: 87, against 15, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Boris Vangelov and a group of MPs. They voted 114 MPs: 21, against 23, abstention 70. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 3. Vote 117 MPs: 92, against 20, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u14	According to § 4, there is a proposal of the MPs Manoil Manev and a group of MPs - version I and option II. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the version of the importer for Option I and Option II and shall propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) A new item shall be created. 3: "3." it has not notified any change under art. 32a, and/or; b) the current t. 3 becomes t. 4 and at the end of it shall be added to either for at least a one-year period in the cases referred to in art. 12a, para. Art. 1 and under Art. 1 14a, para. 1, t. 3 - and the jobs created. 2. In para. 2 after the words "al." 1, t. 1 and 2.. or the change in terms of item............................................................................................... The following information shall be provided in According to § 5, there is a proposal of the MPs Manoil Manev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall not support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), (4) Where it is necessary to clarify the facts and circumstances of the documents submitted by the application under art. 15, para. 2, the Minister of Justice may require the applicant to submit additional documents within 14 days of its notification or to entrust the Advisory Council with the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad to determine whether the applicant has Bulgarian origin. (5) When with the request for acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship in naturalization under art. 15, para. 1, t. 1 the documents referred to in Article 1 shall not be presented. 15, para. 2, the proceedings shall be terminated. (6) The Advisory Council shall rule with a reasoned positive or negative opinion within two months of the award, taking into account whether the applicant uses the Bulgarian language, whether it is determined as a person of Bulgarian origin, and whether there is at least one of the following circumstances: 1. part of a Bulgarian community or a Bulgarian minority in another country; 2. comes from a settlement that was part of the Bulgarian state in the past or the Bulgarian Exarchate; 3. there are ascenders who are carriers of the Bulgarian traditional family name system. (7) The structure, organization and activity of the Advisory Council of the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad shall be determined by rules adopted by the Council of Ministers. According to § 6 there is a proposal of the MPs Manoil Manev and a group of MPs - version I and option II. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the version of the importer for Option I and Option II and shall propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30 the following amendments and additions are 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: (2) The proposal under para. 1 is motivated and stated in it the specific interest of the Republic of Bulgaria in the naturalization of the person or his specific contribution to the relevant area in which the person has special merit. According to § 7 there is a proposal of the MPs Manoil Manev and a group of MPs - version I, option II. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the version of the importer for Option I and Option II and shall propose the following version of Paragraph 7: .................................................... Article 3 is Art. 32a. (1) The person referred to in art. 29, para. 1 is due within one month after the change in facts and circumstances which are related to the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship in naturalization, exemption from Bulgarian citizenship or restoration of Bulgarian citizenship, to inform the Ministry of Justice and to present documents proving the change. (2) The person who acquired Bulgarian citizenship in naturalization under art. 12a or 14a is due within 14 days from the occurrence of the change in facts and circumstances relating to the investments that have become the basis for the naturalisation, to notify the competent authority that certified the investments and to submit the documents demonstrating the change. The terms and procedure for notification shall be determined by the ordinance under art. 14a, para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u15	Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u16	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My statement is by § 5, art. 29. The Parliamentary Group of "United Patriarchs" shall accept the version made by the Commission, which shall be presented with the additions. We see that the idea, which we have put into creating this text as importers, is reflected here, in the establishment of an Advisory Council at the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad, to have the opportunity to rule on controversial issues for establishing the Bulgarian origins of citizens who do not have documents to verify this. We see that a more precise regulation of what criteria should be met by these citizens with Bulgarian self-awareness, and at the same time we see that there are opportunities for requiring additional documents within 14 days. What worries us is that the 14-day period mentioned is too small as a time range. Given that not a small part of these people, after all, do not permanently reside in the Republic of Bulgaria, they may live in Albania, they may live in some remote regions of Ukraine, say, may have difficulties to come to Sofia within two weeks to provide this information and fulfil the required conditions, which would make it extremely difficult for an objective assessment of whether a person meets the criteria or not. That is why I am making an editorial amendment to change the 14-day deadline to a 30-day period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u17	- What's the line? Any other speeches? I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. In the order of the texts presented, I shall first put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for § 4. They voted 102 MPs: 84, against 12, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the editorial amendment made by the MP Mr. Bogdanov. They voted 99 MPs: 26, Against 9, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u18	Colleagues, some of the MPs were entering the Chamber and could not understand what the editorial proposal made Mr. Bogdanov. And he suggests that the deadline that is now proposed to be 14 days is 30 days from the point of view that there are our compatriots who live in New Zealand, Australia, Canada, America. People who submit documents for Bulgarian citizenship, including Bessarab Bulgarians from Vladivostok, in 14 days they cannot provide the documents necessary to meet the deadline.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u19	We're going over Mr. Bogdanov's proposal. They voted 97 MPs: 19 against 8, 70 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the amendments proposed by the Commission for the texts of paragraphs 5, 6 and 7. Vote 92 MPs: 81 against 6, abstention 5. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u20	Paragraph 8 "Operation I, Option II'. Proposal of the National Representative Manoil Manev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and does not support it by t. 2: "2." A new paragraph 6 shall be inserted: A protocol shall be drawn up for the meetings of the Citizenship Council including applications and proposals related to Bulgarian citizenship. The applications under art. Art. 12a. 14a, as well as those under art. 16 are included in separate protocols. The Commission shall in principle support the version of the importer for Option I and Option II and shall propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33 the following 1. In para. 1 the words of the Ministry of Health and the State Agency of National Security, the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad and the State Agency for Refugees are replaced by the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Economy, the State Agency of National Security, the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad and the State Agency for Refugees. 2. A new para is being created. 4. (4) Where it is necessary to clarify the facts and circumstances relating to the evidence submitted on the applications and proposals or to the circumstances under art. 19, The Council of Citizenship may require the applicants to submit additional documents or to assign the representative of the institution concerned under para. 1 to carry out a check. The time limit for submission of documents and for carrying out the verification shall be three months and in the cases referred to in art. 12a, 14a and 16 a month. In this case, the time limits laid down in art. 35, para. 1 stop running. 3. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5. Paragraph 9 "Option I and Option II'. Proposal of the National Representative Manoil Manev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission supports, in principle, the version of the importer for Option I and Option II, i.e. 1 and 3, does not support it for option II, t. 2 and proposes the following version of § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 1 the word "eight' is replaced by "twelve'; (b) c. 2 the word "Twelve" is replaced by "Nine." 2. In para. 3: (a) c. 1 the word "twenty" is replaced by "three" and the word "two" is replaced by "three" is replaced by "three"; (b) c. 2 the word "seven" is replaced by "three" and the word "two" is replaced by "three" is replaced by "three." 3. A new para is being created. 4. The Ministry of Interior and the State Agency of National Security shall present updated opinions at the Ministry of Justice at the latest on the day of the meeting of the Council of Citizenship, where, after expressing their initial written opinions, there has been a change in facts and circumstances. 4. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 10: ..................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 38a: Art. 38a. The State Agency for Bulgarians abroad creates and keeps an electronic register of data of the persons for whom the Advisory Council has established Bulgarian origin. The procedure for keeping, keeping and accessing the register shall be laid down by a regulation of the Council of Ministers. Paragraph 10 "Option I and Option II'. Proposal of the National Representative Manoil Manev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission supports, in principle, the version of the importer for option I, supports the version of the importer for option II and proposes the following version of § 10, which becomes § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39, para. 1 the word "mail" is replaced by "application" and a sentence is created second: "The certificate is issued within 30 days of the entry of the documents in the Ministry of Justice."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u21	Are there any speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, I will put to the vote the unsupported part of the proposal of the MP Manoil Manev and a group of MPs. Vote 96 MPs: 15 against 14, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote all the amendments proposed by the Commission to the relevant texts and the creation of a new paragraph. Vote 96 MPs: 83 against 7, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u22	According to § 11, there is a proposal of the MP Manoil Manev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... Paragraph 5a shall be inserted in the transitional and final provisions: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Citizens of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland who applied for the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by 31 December 2020 shall enjoy the rights of citizens of a Member State of the European Union under art. 12, para. 2, p. The following points are inserted after point 2 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. According to § 12 there is a proposal of the MP Manoil Manev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. Applications submitted until the entry into force of this law shall be dealt with and decided under the current terms and conditions, with the exception of the requirements of § 4, 7 and § 9, paragraph 1. 3 which also apply to the welded proceedings in relation to Bulgarian citizenship. Proposal of the MP Yordan Tsonev. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create new § 14 ......... 14......................................................................... Within three months of the entry into force of this law, the electronic register under art. 38a. § 15. Within 6 months of the establishment of the electronic register under art. 38a is entered all the data of the applicants who entered the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad from 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2020. § 16. Within 6 months of the entry into force of this law: 1. The Council of Ministers shall: (a) adopt the rules of procedure referred to in art. 29, para. 7 and the ordinance under art. 38a; (b) aligns the rules of procedure adopted by him in accordance with this law; 2. the ministers and presidents of the state agencies shall bring in line with it the acts relating to its implementation, as well as the advice created by them which do not comply with the requirements of this law; 3. The Minister of Economy shall issue the ordinance under Article 3. 14a, para. 4. Proposal of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 17: Seventeen. In the Law on Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 3, para. 1 t. 2 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u23	Statements, coworkers? Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And I thank the President of the Commission for the reminder. The proposal I made withdrew it to the Commission because it was editorialally poorly drawn up and incorrect. Then I edited this proposal, which I now want to make on the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, and this is the following: for the establishment in Transitional and Final Provisions of a new § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... (1) A person who, until the entry into force of this law, has been granted permission for permanent residence in the Republic of Bulgaria on the basis of art. 25, para. 1, t. 6 and 7 of the Law on Foreigners in Bulgaria, in accordance with the provisions of the law in force at the time of entry, is entitled to apply for the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship if it meets the conditions under art. 12, para. 1, t. 1, 2, 3 and 4 and provided that the investment made by it was maintained for a period of not less than five years. (2) The family members of the person under para. 1 have the right to apply for the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship if they meet the conditions under art. 12, para. 1, t. 2, 3 and 4 and the face under para. 1 has acquired Bulgarian citizenship. I think the text of this proposal is coherent. Perhaps the President of the Commission should say.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u25	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u26	Yeah. That's my offer. Here, I'll give it to you in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u27	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. - What's the line? Any other speeches? Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In connection with Mr. Tsonev's speech and proposal, I inform you that the proposed proposal is in agreement with the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Interior and the State Agency of National Security. The proposal made relates to absolutely all the institutions and, in view of the reasons that he expressed, we think it is good to support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u29	Thank you. Are there lines? Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u30	Mrs. Alexandrova, I would ask you to give us more clarification on the proposals........................ what are the concerns, which citizens are concerned, where do these citizens live? We want to know what texts are and what they refer to as changes, not just as a member-who you are, a member-who you are.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u31	Thank you. Another line? Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u32	In the form of a line, since I failed to say the reasons, you will allow me to say a few words about them. The proposal covers only investment citizenship.. only those who in the old order were absolutely correct and maintained the investment within five years without withdrawing it. Since they have already received permanent residence, they have the right to apply for citizenship. This aims to prevent the State from suing that their rights have been revoked after they have been conscientious in their obligations. The circle is from about 60. 70 investors who, if they start to sue us, the amount of one compensation will be at least 1 million, in which case we want to prevent this possibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u33	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Is there a third line? I can't see. A hole, Mrs. Alexandrova? You don't have an ass. Do you have any other comments? Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u34	Excuse me, Mr. President, but since we read a lot of paragraphs at once and did not comply with the statements made by our fellow Members, we have an editorial proposal for § 12, which becomes § 13. In the version of the Commission for § 12, which becomes § 13 the words..................................................................................... The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: Article 22, 32a and Article 22, 32a 35, para. This is on the proposal of the Final Texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u35	Thank you. If there are no other speeches, colleagues, are we going to vote? I will put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 11 and the text of the importer for the name of the division Vote 100 MPs: 84 against 8, abstention 8. The proposals have been accepted. I put to the vote the editorial amendment made by Mrs. Alexandrova for the text of § 12, which becomes 13. Vote 95 MPs: 81 against 8, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the amendments proposed by the Commission for § 12, which shall become 13 with the editorial amendment already adopted. Vote 92 MPs: 81 against 6, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Yordan Tsonev. Vote 89 MPs: 73 against 11, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. [[National Representative Milen Mihov wants the floor for a negative vote.]] Negative vote? I'll give you the floor. For the record, and for information, the adoption of Mr. Tsonev's proposal changes the numbering of the next paragraphs of the Report by one step. I'm not making any explicit arrangements, just to be noted. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u36	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Take my negative vote as a little fling. For a long time there was talk of selling passports, selling citizenship. Today we are talking about the acquisition of citizenship and I voted against, because this acquisition of citizenship is essentially a sale of citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u37	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. I will put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create new paragraphs on the Commission's report - these are 14 to 16 and 17, which I remind again that they already have a new numbering. Vote 95 MPs: 85 against 5, abstention 5. The proposals have been accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Under § 13 there is a proposal of the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 13: a) before t. 1 a new point is created: I'm sorry, Article 3 is replaced by the following: 24p: Art. 24p. (1) The permit for continued residence may be granted by foreigners who have a certificate issued by the Ministry of Economy for a high-tech and/or innovative project called the "Starstep visa" and hold a visa under art.15, para. 1 and who, after issuing the long-stay visa, have become partners or shareholders and have more than 50% participation in a Bulgarian trading company whose subject-matter is the one claimed at the issuance of the certificate. (2) For receipt of the right of long-stay residence, the foreigner shall personally present in the Directorate of Migration and in the Ministry of Interior an application in accordance with Annex No 3, to which he shall apply: 1. a copy of a regular passport or replacement document with the pages of the photo, personal data, visa under art. 15, para. 1 The CIC, where required, and the stamp for the last entry into the country; the original of the passport or replacement document shall also be presented to verify the authenticity of the copy; 2. a document for a paid state fee under art. 10, para. 3 of Tariff No 4 for fees collected in the system of the Ministry of Interior under the Law on State Fees, except for foreigners applying on the grounds of art. 24, para. 1, t. 5, 13 and 18, Art. Art. 24c, Art. Art. 24 and art. 33d, para. 4 of the FHB; 3. evidence of a secured dwelling; 4. compulsory medical insurance valid in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria where the person is not insured under the SCI; 5. evidence of stable, regular, predictable and sufficient means of maintenance, without resorting to the social support system, in an amount not less than the minimum monthly salary, minimum scholarship or minimum pension for the country, for the period of residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria; 6. a certificate of criminality issued by the country of nationality of the foreigner or by the State of his usual residence at the time of the initial submission of the application. 7. certificate for a high-tech and/or innovative project called the "Starstep visa" issued by the Ministry of Economy; 8. details of the registered trading company. (4) The Ministry of Economy shall immediately inform the Directorate of Migration. Any change in the circumstances of the certificate issued leading to a failure to comply with the requirements for issuing the certificate, which shall give rise to the withdrawal of the right of residence granted. (5) The residence permit under para. 1 shall be issued for a period of up to one year. (6) The members of the family of the holder of a permit for long stay on the basis of a certificate The members of the family of the holder of a permit for long stay on the basis of the "Startstep visa" shall have the right to work in employment and to carry out freelance activities on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period of residence of the holder and subject to the requirements of art. 33k, para. 3 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria by decision of the Executive Director of the Employment Agency for Access to the Labour Market under the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility. (b) To be created t. 1a: 1a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) in para. 2 after the sum of.24o is the comma and the sum of.24p is added; (b) in para 10 in the statement.... in the cases referred to in art. 24, para. 1, t. Art. 21, Art. 24b and 24c "the Union' is replaced by a comma and at the end of the sentence is added "the Union'. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Manoil Manev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Alexander Ivanov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal in principle. In principle, the Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 13, which becomes the relevant paragraph when renumbered, I guess § 19: § 18. In the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 24p: Art. 24p. (1) Permission for long stay may be granted to foreigners who are in possession of a visa under art. 15, para. 1 have a certificate issued by the State Agency for Research and Innovation for a high-tech and/or innovative project called "Starstep visa" and after issuing the visa for long-term residence have become partners or shareholders in a Bulgarian commercial company, with a capital of not less than BGN 1 000 000 and which own not less than 50 percent of the company's capital, whose business is the subject of the activity claimed when issuing the certificate. (2) The State Agency for Research and Innovation shall immediately inform the Directorate for Migration of any change in the circumstances of the issued certificate for a high-tech and/or innovative project leading to a failure to comply with the requirements for issuing the certificate, which shall justify the withdrawal of the right of residence granted. (3) The terms and procedure for issuing, extending and withdrawing the certificate of high-tech and/or innovative project shall be determined by a decree of the Council of Ministers. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1: (aa) point 6 is amended as follows: It's six. they have made an investment or increased their investment by acquiring: (a) shares or bonds of Bulgarian trading companies traded on a regulated market or multilateral trading system in the Republic of Bulgaria at a market value of not less than BGN 2 000 000.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • b) rights under concession contracts in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria with a contract value of not less than BGN 1 000 000.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • c) shares or shares worth not less than BGN 1 000 000 in collective investment schemes originating in the Republic of Bulgaria operating under the Law on the Activities of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings, and provided that: (aa) the net value of the assets of each collective investment scheme shall be not less than BGN 5 000 000.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (bb) the collective investment scheme has been authorised or authorised by the Financial Supervision Commission; (c) their investment strategy is primarily aimed at investing in shares and/or bonds referred to in (a); (d) shares or shares of a value of not less than BGN 1 000 000. in alternative investment funds established in the Republic of Bulgaria managed by persons managing alternative investment funds originating in the Republic of Bulgaria operating under the Law on the Activities of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings, and provided that: (aa) the assets of each fund shall be worth not less than BGN 3 000 000.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (bb) alternative investment funds and those managing alternative investment funds shall be authorised or registered by the Financial Supervision Commission; (c) their investment strategy focuses mainly on investments in Bulgarian assets and invests only in shares, shares and bonds of Bulgarian companies, including joint stock companies for special investment purposes; (bb) point 7 is amended as follows: "7." they invested in the country by depositing in the capital of a Bulgarian trading company a sum of not less than BGN 2 000 000. for a priority investment project carried out by the company certified under the terms and conditions of the Investment Promotion Act, which is certified by the Ministry of Economy; (b) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: (2) The order for the establishment of the circumstances and conditions under para. 1 as well as the conditions and arrangements for carrying out the verification and assessment under para. 7 and the prior approval for making investments shall be determined by the rules of application of the law. The circumstances of para. 1, t. 6, 8 and 17 are established by the Bulgarian Investment Agency. The investments under para. 1, t. 6 points (a), (b) and (c) shall be certified by the Central Depository of Securities where the securities are registered. The Central Depository of Securities provides the information to the Bulgarian Investment Agency. (c) the creation of para. 7? 13: . (7) A foreigner who applies for a permanent residence permit under para. 1, t. 6, carry out investment after inspection and evaluation by the Bulgarian Investment Agency of the documents presented by him: 1. who identify the person in an indisputable way; 2. for available funds of an amount not less than the minimum threshold for the investment concerned; 3. which show clear origin of the funds for the investment; 4. which show whether the foreigner is a prominent political person according to art. 36 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering; 5. for employment, professional and investment activities; 6. a certificate of criminality from a country of origin or a country of permanent residence. (8) The foreigner shall also provide other documents and information requested by the Bulgarian Investment Agency as necessary. (9) The Ministry of Interior and the State Agency of National Security shall, upon request, provide the Bulgarian Investment Agency with an opinion on the basis of the information under art. 10, according to their jurisdiction. (10) The prior approval for making investments issued by the Bulgarian Investment Agency on the basis of the verification and assessment under para. 7 shall not be grounds for issuing a visa under Article 7. 15, para. 1 or for granting a right of residence. (11) Investments under para. 1, t. 6, 8 and 16 must be maintained above the minimum amount required in the law for a period of 5 years from the date of granting the right of permanent residence. Foreigners with the right of permanent residence in the Republic of Bulgaria declare immediately to the Central Depository of Securities respectively the Bulgarian Investment Agency or the Ministry of Economy any change in the circumstances of their investments and provide evidence of this. (12) The acquired rights and assets resulting from the investments under para. 1, t. 6 and 8 cannot be used to secure loans to Bulgarian credit and financial institutions for the term under para. 11. (13) The subsequent control of the circumstances under para. 1, t. 6, 8 and 17 is carried out by the Bulgarian Investment Agency and by para. 1, t. 7, 13 and 16 from the Ministry of Economy. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 2 after the words (b) in para. 10 words.............................................................................. 24b and 24c 24b, 24c and 24p 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40, para. 1 t. 1 is amended as follows: "1." have dropped the grounds under art. 24, 24a, 24b, 24c, 24f, 24h, 24k, 24m, 24n, 24o, 24p, 24p, art. 25, para. 1, t. 6, 7, 8, 13, 16 and 17, art. 25c, 25d, 33a, 33d, 33k, 33l, 33p and 33t, and when the investment for which the foreigner has received a permanent residence permit has been terminated or transferred to another person within the term of art. 25, para. 11 or if reduced under the minimum amount required by the law or no longer meets the requirements of art. 25, para. 12, regardless of the grounds for termination, transfer or reduction; Under § 14, there is a proposal of the MP Manoil Manev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 14 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u39	Thank you. Statements? Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In my speech, I will make the following editorial proposals. In Paragraph 13 of the Importer, Paragraph 18 of the Report, in para. 11 words The Central Depository of Securities respectively The Bulgarian Investment Agency or the Bulgarian Investment Agency shall be replaced by the Bulgarian Investment Agency respectively. The Bulgarian Investment Agency shall, as a second sentence, acquire the following version, Mr. Chairman: The foreigners entitled to permanent residence in the Republic of Bulgaria shall declare immediately to the Bulgarian Investment Agency respectively the Ministry of Economy any change in the circumstances of their investments and provide evidence of this. To motivate myself, colleagues, Mr. Chairman, the proposal to drop out the Central Depository to be contained in para. 11 is that, as an authority, it does not need to be notified in such a change of investment. This is dictated by his authority. The obligation to declare any change to the investments made by foreigners should be submitted, implemented to the Bulgarian Investment Agency, but not to the Central Depository of Securities, since the Central Depository of Securities, where the securities are registered, has the power to certify that certain investments in securities are maintained by the foreigner, but not to notify the designated authority when changing that investment. As a second editorial proposal, Mr. Chairman: in para. 12 the word "Bulgarian" is deleted and para. 12 acquires the following version: The acquisition of rights and assets as a result of the investments under para. (12) 1, t. 6 and 8 cannot be used for collateralisation of loans to credit and financial institutions for the term under para. 11. This proposal, my fellow Members, is aimed at the prohibition under para. 12 for collateral of loans with acquired rights and assets as a result of the investments should also apply to foreign credit and financial institutions, not only to the Bulgarians. And if I may, Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, in § 13 another editorial amendment: in para. 1 words with capital of not less than BGN 1 000 000 shall be deleted. Anywhere in art. 24p the words "The State Agency for Research and Innovation" shall be replaced by "the Ministry of Economy." I will motivate myself, honourable Members, with the following. Firstly, when we are talking about attracting and giving the right to residence of innovative companies and startups, speaking of capital of more than 1 000 000 leva, I think it is not serious because this is precisely the form of innovations - the provision and investment in Bulgaria, the opening of such companies, the capital requirement is not adequate. I would like to stress that the possibility of attracting and giving foreign citizens permanent residence, a long stay under this article is maintained. I think that this is dictated by a particular interest and that Bulgaria should still be promoted as a hub for innovation, for making highly added investments and attracting minds from around the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? Are there any other statements? I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev. They voted 83 MPs: 14 against 15, 54 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote the editorial amendments proposed by the Parliamentary Representative Alexander Ivanov in the text of § 13, which becomes § 18 of the Report, but obtains another numbering according to the amendments that have taken place. Vote 79 MPs: 64, against 1, abstention 14. Editorial amendments have been adopted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of the said Paragraph 13 of the Report, with the editorial amendments adopted, and the Commission's proposal to reject § 14 by importer. Vote 74 MPs: 64 against 2, abstention 8. The texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u42	According to § 15 there is a proposal of the MP Manoil Manev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev: the following point is inserted after point 13a (Commission ...... 15.................................................... The Investment Promotion Act shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2 is created ..10. Provide an opportunity for third-country nationals to start and develop a project providing for a high-tech and/or innovative activity in the country for which a certificate is issued called the "Starstep visa". The Minister of Economy shall, within a specified period of time, but no later than three months after the promulgation of the current law, establish an application organisation/conditions, issue of a certificate, control and procedure in order to bring the proposed amendments into effect. 2. Chapter 6 is created with art. 27: Chapter 6........................................................................................... Certificate of high-tech and/or innovative project Art. 27. (1) By decision of the Minister of Economy shall be issued, refused or revoked a certificate for a high-tech and/or innovative project called the "Starstep visa" to third-country nationals. (2) With one project may apply to three third-country nationals. (3) The period of validity of the certificate shall be up to 24 months. (4) The period may be extended if the conditions for its original issue have not expired. (5) A fee shall be paid for the issue and extension of the certificate. (6) In the event of loss, damage or destruction of the certificate under para. 1 shall be paid the fee in half amount. (7) The Minister of Economy shall issue rules on the organisation and activity of the Expert Council. 3. In § 1 of the additional provisions, paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 18: 18. A third-country national is a person as defined in § 1, point (c). 4 of the additional provisions of the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 15 be rejected. Paragraph 16 of Annex I, II and III. According to § 16 there is a proposal of the MP Manoil Manev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the version of the importer for options I, II and III and proposes that § 16 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u43	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev. They voted 87 MPs: 15 against 37, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject paragraphs 15 and 16 on the Commission report. Vote 79 MPs: 70, none, abstention 9. The proposals put to the vote have been adopted. Let's move on to the next point: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE RECEIVED AND ARGUED FORES OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Mr. Popov, come in. You have the floor to present the Defence Committee Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I request a security clearance procedure in the defense chief's room, Admiral Emil Eftimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u45	I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u46	♪ I can't believe of the Defence Committee on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 102-01-13, submitted to the National Assembly by decision of the Council of Ministers of 17 February 2021. At a meeting held on 18 February 2021, the Defence Committee discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 102-01-13, submitted to the National Assembly by decision of the Council of Ministers of 17 February 2021. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Defence Anatoly Velichkov, Permanent Secretary Anton Lastardzhiev, Deputy Chief of Defence Lieutenant General Dimitar Iliev and Director of the Strategic Planning Directorate. The reasons for the bill were presented by Deputy Minister Velichkov. The following discussion discussed the proposed amendments and additions to improve the organizational structure of the armed forces with regard to the command and management systems and logistics provision reflecting the completed strategic defence review and corresponding to the programme for development of the defence capabilities of the armed forces adopted by the National Assembly by 2032. The most significant changes are related to the creation of two new structures in the composition of the Bulgarian Army The authority of the Chief of Defence has been extended and will now exercise direct command of the commanders of the commanders and commanders of the three types of armed forces. The Head of Defence shall also be entrusted with responsibilities for the development of the action plans of the armed forces, the activation of forces and the implementation of a specific plan. The law also clearly defines the functions of the Defence Headquarters, which so far have not been described in its role as strategic military headquarters. They assist the Chief of Defence in determining the necessary defence capabilities, using the armed forces, preparing troops and forces and developing strategic forecasts, analyses, military assessments and recommendations for decision-making in the field of defence. The amendments shall lay down the conditions and arrangements for the passage through and the residence of the Allied Armed Forces in the territory of the country under emergency circumstances, indicating that this is done by the decision of the National Assembly and the President's Decree. The transitional and final provisions of the Bill confer powers on the Chief of Defence for placing tasks and on the military police authorities. The other proposals for amendments and additions are relevant to other provisions of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces relating to the substantive amendments of the current law, as well as relevant to the Military Intelligence Act, the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency and the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The following discussion was held by the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov, Plamen Manushev and Valentin Radev. The voiced doubt by the MP Nikolay Tsonkov about the creation of the new commands was given a response by Deputy Minister Velichkov and Lieutenant General Iliev, who pointed out the objective need for this in the sense of the operational level of leadership of the armed forces and the new functions of the Defence Headquarters as strategic military headquarters in terms of management. People's representative Plamen Manushev noted the short-term need for amendments to the Law regarding the implementation of the defence capabilities of the armed forces programme until 2032 and the lack of objective prerequisites to stop it indefinitely. A question of the National Representative Valentin Radev from where funds will be provided for the implementation of the changes with regard to the new structures was answered that none of these are necessary. The same are the result of restructuring and re-subordination of existing ones by improving management levels in an organizational aspect. The Chairman of the Defence Committee General Konstantin Popov thanked those involved in the meeting for their comments. After the end of the discussion, a vote was held in which, with 13 votes for the defence committee adopted the following opinion with 13 votes for the defence committee, without votes against the defence committee and 7 votes abstentions: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria No 102-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers by Decision No 125 of 17 February 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u47	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Statements? Mr. Vangelov, you have the floor to speak. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You won't have a statement. Mr. Popov? [[Reply from the National Representative Konstantin Popov.]] Mr. Admiral? [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Wait! [[Loud noise and lines.]] Okay. Wait, Mr. Admiral, I'll put it to the vote... [[Heckling]] There's a difference. [[Heckling]] No, no, I know what I'm saying, I know. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 102-01-13, submitted to the National Assembly by decision of the Council of Ministers. Vote 74 MPs: 68, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Admiral. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u48	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The present Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria has made proposals which are necessary for the implementation of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. the most urgent, pressing structural and organisational changes in the armed forces. They are mainly related to changes in the organizational structure of the armed forces and the transformation of the command and management system. Dynamic and often difficult to predict changes in the security environment are increasingly demanding the stability and effectiveness of the command structure. Our adaptation to these new conditions requires ensuring flexibility in its functioning and harmonisation with Union requirements. The Union requirements are justified by the continuing transformation of NATO and the Alliance's adaptation to the changed security environment. The adaptation of NATO command structure also envisions increasing the role of headquarters by the structure of forces, as well as their interaction with national command and management structures during the implementation of existing and future collective defence plans. These features, combined with the results of the strategic defence review carried out, imposed structural changes in the armed forces and the transformation of the command and management system in order to maximise the use of the capabilities of the armed forces in peace time and in the event of crises with the focus of phase-retention tasks, as well as of the country's defence in a military conflict. The aim of the proposed amendments to the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria is to define the role of Chief of Defence and Defence in the national system of command and management of the armed forces and the interaction with the structures at operational and tactical level. As a key element of the strategic level of leadership, command and management of the armed forces, the Chief of Defence, assisted by the Defence Headquarters, transforms political guidelines into military actions, missions and operations, provides military expertise to develop justified policy decisions in the field of defence, directs the construction of defence capabilities and development of the armed forces, pre-planning and planning in response to a crisis, directs, coordinates and synchronises the processes at operational level, co-ordinates and interacts with NATO and the European Union military authorities. When planning an operation in response to a crisis, the Chief of Defence, using the built command structure of the armed forces, shall define a model of a specific command and management system, ensuring that the objectives are achieved through effective action of components and formations, and reliable maintenance and provision. In addition to the changes in the command and management system of the armed forces, the organisational structures of the joint command of forces, ground troops, air force, naval forces, joint command of special operations and the creation of new structures are envisaged. A key element in the amendment of the organizational structure of the Bulgarian Army is the formation of two new operational-level commands, a command for logistical support and command for communication-information support and cyber defence, which is mainly based on the following factors: strengthening the role of the host country in conducting a Union operation, increasing hybrid threats in the information space are confirmed as another specific area for conducting operations, which requires the development of the necessary capabilities to compensate for part of the functional and structural deficits found during the defence review. The ultimate objective is to build a single, secure information and communication system providing situational awareness at all levels in real time. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the transformation of the command and management system will ensure the necessary flexibility and freedom of action of components and formations, will preserve the missionary command as an essential foundation of command and governance. In this way, the lines of strategic leadership, command and management are clearly defined. The proposed amendments to the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria retain the integrated model of the Ministry of Defence, ensure the realization of the Defence Capacity Development Program of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2032, provide the necessary parameters for the development of the Armed Forces Development Plan by 2026 and determine the pathogens for the development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in accordance with the transformational processes taking place in NATO and the new adapted command structure of the Alliance. I've reported it, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u49	Thank you, Mr. Admiral. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u50	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to make a proposal in connection with the newly adopted Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Defence Act and the Armed Forces. The deadline for proposals between the two readings will be three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u51	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. I'm voting on this proposal. Vote 88 MPs: 63 against 3, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: THE SECOND CONVERSATION OF THE LAW FOR DELEGATION AND ADVISION OF THE LAW FOR MEASURES AGAINST THE SAMPLE OF PARI, No 002-01-73, importing the Council of Ministers, adopted at the first vote on 20 January 2021. For the Internal Security and Public Order Committee report Mr. Nunev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u52	In addition to the provisions of the Act on Measures against Money Laundering, No 002-01-73, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 December 2020, adopted on the first vote on 20 January 2021, the Council of Ministers submitted a report on the amendment and supplement of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, No 002-01-73. The Law on Measures against Money Laundering (prom., SG No. ...)??...................................................................... The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the law. According to § 1, there is a proposal of the MPs Krasimir Tsipov, Manoil Manev and Plamen Tachev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 the following 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 after the words the Bulgarian National Bank (Bulgarian National Bank) is a comma and is added when carrying out operations and transactions with unlimited circle of persons. 2. point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. Insurance and insurance intermediaries established in the Republic of Bulgaria who have been authorised under the terms and conditions of the Insurance Code when operating under one or more of the insurance classes referred to in Section I of Annex 1 to the Insurance Code; Insurance and Insurance intermediaries authorised in another Member State operating in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria when operating under one or more of the insurance classes referred to in Section I of Annex 1 to the Insurance Code; Insurance insurers established in countries other than a Member State authorised by the Financial Supervision Commission to operate in the Republic of Bulgaria through a branch when operating under one or more of the insurance classes referred to in Section I of Annex 1 to the Insurance Code; 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 9 a comma shall be placed after the word "license" and the words "licensure" shall be replaced by a resolution or registered. 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 10 after the word...... or are registered........................................................................................... 5. Points 22, 23, 24, 25 and 27 are repealed. 6. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 29 the word "Sports" is replaced by "Students." 7. Points 30, 31, 33 and 34 are repealed. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15, para. 1 the words "signing of a decree of award under art. 13, para. 4s and the comma in front of them are deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 13, in c. 1 words "al." 1.. 3.. are replaced by............................................................................................. One, two and three. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 15. Proposal of the National Representative Plamen Nunev and Krasimir Tsipov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 109, para. 1, in the text before t. 1 words "al." 3 and 6' are replaced by "al'. 3, 4 and 6 Proposal of the National Representative Plamen Nunev and Krasimir Tsipov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create new § 18 and 19: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 111, para. 1 after the words "al." The following shall be added: § 19. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 115, para. 1 words "al." 3 or 6' are replaced by "al'. 3, 4 or 6 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 20. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 21. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 123a 6 is amended as follows: It's six. the degree of assistance provided by the natural or legal person to the control bodies of the Directorate of Finance Intelligence and to the State Agency of National Security and to the National Revenue Agency, to the designated officials of the Bulgarian National Bank or to the persons designated by the bodies of the Financial Supervision Commission; The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... Article 10 shall be inserted in Chapter 10. 128: Art. 128. The authorities exercising control over compliance with the requirements of this Law, the Law on Measures against the Financing of Terrorism and their implementing acts by the persons referred to in art. 4 t. 1 "6" and so on. 8 - 10, as well as the President of the State Agency of National Security and a person empowered by him may enter into written agreements with the competent supervisory authorities of the Member States for the purposes of cooperation and exchange of information for the purposes of Directive (EU) 2018/49. According to § 18 there is a proposal of the MP Krasimir Tsipov, Manoil Manev and Plamen Tachev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 1: (a) c. 6 a party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area shall be added at the end; (b) c. 11 after the words the Financial Supervision Officer shall be added to its bodies. (c) c. 20 the words "Member State of the European Union" shall be replaced by "Member State" within the meaning of point (c). the following point is inserted after point 6 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): (d) shall be established. 26: "26." For the purposes of Article 4 (1) (b) of Directive 2014/59/EU, the term "Customs" means the term "Customs" and "Customssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss." 98, para. 4 per person per article. 4 t. 28 is the total turnover of the person, which includes the sum of the revenue referred to in Section I. 2. In § 3 after the words s (OJ L 141/73 of 5 June 2015) The term "Credit" means the term "Credit," the words "Credit" and the words "Credit" shall be deleted and the words "Credit" shall be added, the words "Credit" shall be inserted, and the words "Credit" shall be added, Directive (EU) 2019/2177 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2019 amending Directive 2009/138/EC on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance (Solvency II), Directive 2014/65/EU on markets in financial instruments and Directive (EU) 2015/849 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering and terrorist financing (OJ L 334/155 of 27 December 2019). supposed to be at the end of the restructuring period. 'Concluding provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Measures against the Financing of Terrorism (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) a new sentence is created second: the National Revenue Agency and customs authorities shall be obliged to provide information to the Department of Finance Intelligence and to the State Agency of National Security at once if, in carrying out their functions, they establish facts and circumstances which may be related to terrorist financing. b) The previous sentence second becomes the third sentence. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 5, t. 1 all over the (b) in para. The 10th sentence of the fifth sentence is replaced by the European Banking Authority. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 sentence first after the words "National Revenue Agency" the Union shall be replaced by a comma, and the words "and the Financial Supervision Commission" shall be replaced by "or by the officials appointed by the Commission's bodies for Financial Supervision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20 which shall become § 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u53	Thank you. You have the floor to speak. I'm opening the debate. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. I vote: the texts of the importer for the relevant paragraphs; the amendments proposed by the Commission for the relevant paragraphs; the creation of new paragraphs with a text on the Commission Report and the editorial amendments. They voted 106 MPs: 76, against 17, abstention 13. The texts put to the vote have been adopted. Mrs. Ninova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u54	Dear Bulgarian citizens, Mr. Borisov's government has not dealt with any of the consequences of the crisis of the CIVID-19. And now the process of voluntary vaccination and execution of the vaccination plan is in order. Here's the situation. Bulgaria is in one of the last places in Europe and nearly two months after the beginning of the process about 135,000 vaccines were made and one fifth of the immunized received a second dose of vaccines. Of course, things are far better in other European countries, where the chiefs are Denmark, Italy, Spain, Slovenia. [[Heckling]] The countries around us, our neighbours, are much better, too. Greece, where...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u55	Colleagues, please put your masks on there! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u56	...Vaccinated are a 4-fold higher share, Serbia, Turkey and so on. Two days ago, the government and the National Operations Headquarters abandoned the National vaccination plan and released the vaccines to.. AstraZeneca.................. for those who want to be vaccinated....................................................................... There were queues in Sofia and in the big cities, where those who wanted to come in early in the morning to receive this vaccine. There are also 24-hour checkpoints, including personal doctors. What, though, turns out to be later? There are no vaccines of chaos, incompetence throughout the country. You make private doctors make lists, and then you return them because the vaccines are not provided. According to European forecasts, if the government does so on this issue, 70% of our population will be vaccinated in 2040. Your incompetence and chaoticity will have a long-term impact not only on the health status of the population, but on the economy and the standard of living. The countries that have progressed in this process will restore their economies more quickly and the scissors between us and them will open dramatically. As usual, the prime minister and ministers were justified by other people's mistakes, hid behind Europe's back, made themselves known to the vaccine producers. It's someone else's fault. However, here is how things are in Europe and what the Commissioner for Health and the spokesperson of the European Commission say. In the words of the European Health Commissioner: The European Union's Member States, such as Hungary, are entitled to receive vaccines, which they consider, without relying solely on the European strategy, which includes the preparations of Pfeiser, Modern and AstraZeneka. Here's what the European Commission spokesperson said in response to a question related to the Russian vaccine "Sputnik": The European Union countries have the freedom to obtain vaccines outside the European Commission's strategy but under their own responsibility. Courageous statesmen in Europe and the world have not hidden behind foreign decisions and have taken personal responsibility to their peoples "nothing like this can be expected from our prime minister, of course. The first time, if you remember, the government hid behind the National Assembly decision. We have been asked by the National Assembly to approve the government's actions to conclude an agreement and to take action to conclude a contract for the purchase of vaccines by AstraZeneca, Pfeiser-Biontech and so on. Do you remember this Parliament decision, which dates back to 3 December 2020? Since we cannot expect the Prime Minister to show exceptional courage now in this situation, we are taking the initiative and submitting a decision to the National Assembly today to seek additional opportunities for Bulgaria. We insist that the National Assembly entrusts the Bulgarian government to the same way as last time to begin bilateral talks on the delivery of the vaccine, as Hungary, Israel and Slovenia did. We demand that this decision be considered before the dissolution of the National Assembly. The delay will have a severe impact, as I said, on the health status, economy and standard of living in Bulgaria, and its adoption will enable those willing to voluntarily vaccinate to have access to vaccines and have the right to a wider choice. This will help the health system and the economy. The vaccination rates are also conditions for loosening the measures, for restoring the business, for improving the quality of life of Bulgarian citizens and for Bulgaria's smooth recovery from the crisis. Today, the decision is being made in the proceedings of the National Assembly. We expect it to be urgently included in the Parliamentary Programme before we disband for the elections. In return, we will exercise our right under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and with signatures we will request an extraordinary meeting on this matter. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR GUARDS IN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The report of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order follows. Here you are, dear Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, please allow: Milko Berner, Deputy Minister of Interior, Biljana Stojkova, Chief Legal Consult in the Directorate of Legal and Normal Activities, and Vladislava Radonova, Head of Sector in the Directorate of Migration.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u59	I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 69 MPs: 62, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u60	The Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria is amended and supplemented by the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 1 be rejected. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9g, para. 1 a new sentence is created second: the visa application can also be submitted electronically through an electronically completed application under a model signed with a qualified electronic signature and the previous sentence becomes a third sentence. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10, para. 1 the following additions 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 6 is finally a comma and is added to it unless it has been rehabilitated. 2. A t is created. 26: "26." is convicted in the country of which he is a citizen or in the country of his usual residence for a deliberate crime of general nature and under the Bulgarian law for the same type of crime, a prison sentence is provided for at least one year, unless he has been rehabilitated. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 words "180 days' shall be replaced by "180 days'. 2. A new para is being created. 5 and para. 6 and 7: The short-stay visa may be issued for multiple entry and with a period of validity of up to 5 years where the foreigner: 1. holds a valid travel document which gives it the right to enter the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, issued within the last 10 years and has a period of validity of at least three months after the planned departure date from the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, except in exceptional circumstances or humanitarian reasons; 2. has justified the purpose and conditions of the planned stay and that it has sufficient means of maintenance for both the period of planned stay in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and its return to the country of origin or transit to a third country where its acceptance is guaranteed or that it is able to legally acquire those funds. (6) Short-term multiple-entry visas may be issued for the following periods of validity unless the validity of the visa exceeds the validity of the travel document: 1. to one year, provided that the foreigner has received and legally used three visas within the last two years; 2. to two years, provided that in the last two years the foreigner has received and has correctly used a previous multiple visa with a period of validity of up to one year; 3. up to 5 years, provided that in the last three years the foreigner has received and has correctly used a previous multiple visa with a period of validity of up to two years; airport transit visas shall not be taken into account when issuing multiple entry visas. (7) The multiple visa with a period of validity up to 5 years may also be issued to foreigners who justify their intention to travel regularly, provided that they prove their integrity and reliability and the correct use of previous visas, their economic situation in the country of origin and their actual intention to leave the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria before the expiry of the visa they apply for. 3. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 8.....................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u61	Thank you. Two unsupported proposals follow. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer and the amendments proposed by the Commission to the texts which have been presented to you. Vote 68 MPs: 61, none, abstention 7. The texts put to the vote have been adopted. Procedure Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My proposal for a procedure is: today's work of parliament to continue until the end of parliamentary control, as we have some slight concerns... Yesterday the Minister of Finance tried to financiate his answer to the questions to make sure it wasn't planned not to come. The law is 84 pages long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u63	I shall put the proposal to the vote. [[(Noise and lines from GERB:]] He has the rules, and he has the right to propose it. 70 MPs voted: 11 against 56, abstention 3. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u64	We want a re-voting of the proposal!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u65	You want a re-vote? No, there'll be no re-voting. Here you go, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: A new § 5 is being created. § 5. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 14b with the following content: Art. 14b. (1) A short-stay visa with limited territorial validity and authorised residence period up to 30 days may be issued to a foreigner where the purpose of the trip is to use a tourist service on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) For the issue of the visa under para. 1 shall be completed with the application referred to in Article 1. 9g in electronic form of the site of the respective Bulgarian diplomatic representation or consulate and apply documents proving the purpose of the journey as defined in the ordinance under art. 9e, para. 1. (3) The authorised official in the diplomatic and consular representation under art. 9d, para. 1 shall decide on the issuance or refusal of a visa after a conciliation procedure has been carried out in accordance with the relevant procedure and shall send a reply to the applicant at an e-mail address specified in the application within 5 working days of the submission of the application. (4) The visa shall be issued after the removal of biometric data by an authorised official in the border control authorities at the time of entry of the foreigner into the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The visa sticker shall be due according to art. 9c, para. 1 and 2, noting that it has been issued for the purpose of holiday (touristic service). The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. A new § 6: ........................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 15a containing the following: Art. 15a. (1) A long-stay visa with a period of validity of up to 2 years and a right of residence of up to 360 days may be issued to a foreigner who has the right to property on residential immovable property in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for the purpose of rest, without wishing to be authorised for long, long-term or permanent residence. (2) The visa under para. 1 gives the right to multiple entry into the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria within the period of its validity, subject to the maximum period of residence and may be reissued. (3) The conditions for issuing and re-issue of the visa shall be laid down in the ordinance under art. 9e, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u67	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the first unsupported proposal of the MP Iskren Veselinov. They voted 75 MPs: 14 against 17, 44 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the second unsupported proposal of the MP Iskren Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u68	Vote 74 MPs: 9 against 22, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u69	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 4, in c. 6 words................................................................................. 41, para. 1, t. 2, 3 and 5 shall be replaced by the following: 41, p. Two, three and five. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 8. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24b The following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinei 3 s 14 are amended as follows: . (3) Request for authorisation under para. 1 shall be submitted to the Directorate of Migration or to the Department/sector/group of "Migration" at the Ministry of Interior regional departments according to the rules for implementing the law, and shall apply to it: 1. a copy of a regular passport or replacement document with the pages of the photo, personal data, visa under art. 15, para. 1 where required, and the stamp for the last entry into the country; the original of the passport or replacement document shall also be presented to verify the authenticity of the copy; 2. evidence of a secured dwelling; 3. compulsory medical insurance valid in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria where the person is not insured under the Health Insurance Act; 4. evidence of stable, regular, predictable and sufficient means of maintenance, without resorting to the social support system, not less than the minimum monthly salary, minimum scholarship or minimum pension for the country, for the period of residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria; 5. a certificate of criminality issued by the country of nationality of the foreigner or by the State of his usual residence at the time of the initial submission of the application; 6. contract concluded with the research organisation in the Republic of Bulgaria. (4) Before issuing the authorisation under para. 1 Directorate-General of the Ministry of Interior (Migration) or Department/sector/group (Migration) shall carry out a check on the entry of the research organisation in the register under art. 7b, para. 1, t. 1 of the Research Promotion Act. (5) The authorisation under para. 1 shall be issued within 30 days of the submission of the application notified to the applicant in writing. (6) The permit for continued residence may also be granted to members of the family of a researcher under para. 1 on the basis of art. 24, para. 1, t. 13 for the duration of the residence permit of the researcher if they meet the conditions of art. 24, para. 2. (7) A foreigner who has been admitted as a researcher in another Member State of the European Union may carry out part of his research in the Republic of Bulgaria for up to 180 days within any 360 days on the basis of a contract concluded with a research organisation in the first Member State. (8) In the cases under para. 7 the host research organisation in the first Member State shall notify the competent authorities of the first Member State and of the Republic of Bulgaria of the planned part of the scientific study in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria within the period of validity of the authorisation granted by the first Member State. (9) In the cases under para. 7 the competent authorities of the first Member State, inform the Republic of Bulgaria of the intended stay and submit the following documents: 1. valid residence permit; 2. a regular passport or replacement document; 3. evidence of a secured dwelling; 4. compulsory medical insurance; 5. Certificate of Criminality. (10) The planned stay under para. 7 may take place after the expiry of the opposition period by the Directorate-General for Migration to the first Member State, which may not be longer than 30 days from receipt of the completed notification. (11) For the members of the family of a foreigner admitted as a scientific worker in the Republic of Bulgaria under para. 7 who wish to accompany it in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the documents under para. 9, as well as a marriage certificate or birth certificate, together with the notification under para. 8. (12) Permission under para. 1 may also receive a foreigner who holds a valid residence permit issued by the first Member State and who intends to conduct part of his scientific research in a research organisation in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for a period of more than 180 days but not more than two years. The Republic of Bulgaria shall notify its decision to the first Member State. (13) In the cases under para. 12 The foreigner applies the documents under para. 3 except for the visa referred to in Article 3. 15, para. 1. (14) Department/sector/group "Migration" at the Ministry of Interior Regional Affairs departments shall immediately inform the Directorate of "Migration" and the foreigner of the granted permission for continued residence under para. 12. The Migration Directorate shall inform the foreigner and the first Member State within 30 days of the date of submission of the application for a permit for long stay under para. 12. 2. They're creating an al. 15? 19: The permit for long stay may also be granted to members of the family of a researcher under para. 12 holding a valid residence permit issued by the first Member State for the period until the expiry of the residence permit of the researcher in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. In order to obtain the authorisation, the foreigner shall submit to the Department of Migration or to the Department/sector/group of Migration at the Department of the Ministry of Interior, an application according to a model, in accordance with the Rules of Implementation of the Law to which the documents under para. 3, p. 1 5, as well as a marriage certificate or birth certificate. (16) The simultaneous notification under paragraph 16 shall not be permitted. 8 and applying for authorisation under para. 12. The application under para. 12 may be submitted when short-term mobility has started no later than 30 days before its expiry date. (17) Where the researcher or his family members do not meet or have ceased to be eligible for a residence permit under para. 1, 6, 12 or 15, the Migration Directorate shall notify the first Member State that authorised the stay to re-enter its territory without delay and formalities. This also applies to cases where the authorisation granted by the first Member State expires or is withdrawn during the stay in the Republic of Bulgaria. (18) A permit for long stay for up to 9 months may also be granted to a foreigner who has received a permit for long stay under para. 1 or 12, which within 7 working days after the completion of a research project has submitted an application to the Employment Agency for registration as a job-seeker under the Employment Promotion Act, for which the Directorate for Migration and the Department/sector/group of Migration at the Ministry of Interior's regional departments is monitoring by service. The application for a permit for continued residence shall be in accordance with the rules of application of the law and shall be submitted at least 30 days before the expiry of the authorised period of residence. (19) After issuing a permit for long stay under para. 1, 6, 12 and 15 documents shall be issued as required by Council Regulation (EC) No 1032002 of 13 June 2002 on the uniform format of residence permits for third-country nationals (OB, L 157/1 of 15 June 2002). , hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EC) No 1030/2002'. In the case of para. 1 in the field In the case of para. 12 authorisations shall be issued with a period of validity of up to two years, and the field of the authorised type shall be marked with a reference to the scientific worker. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... Article 24c is amended as follows: Art. 24c. (1) Permission for long stay up to one year may be granted to foreigners who are in possession of a visa under art. 15, para. 1 and were accepted as students in regular form of education at a university in the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) Application for authorisation under para. 1 shall be submitted to the Directorate of Migration or to the Department/sector/group of "Migration" at the Ministry of Interior regional departments of the model according to the Rules for Law Enforcement, and shall apply to it: 1. a copy of a regular passport or replacement document with the pages of the photo, personal data, visa under art. 15, para. 1 where required, and the stamp for the last entry into the country; the original of the passport or replacement document shall also be presented to verify the authenticity of the copy; 2. evidence of a secured dwelling; 3. compulsory medical insurance valid in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria where the person is not insured under the Health Insurance Act, except where the foreigner benefits from health insurance when enrolled in higher school; 4. evidence of stable, regular, predictable and sufficient means of maintenance, without resorting to the social support system, not less than the minimum monthly salary, minimum scholarship or minimum pension for the country, for the period of residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria; 5. a certificate of criminality issued by the country of nationality of the foreigner or by the State of his usual residence at the time of the initial submission of the application; 6. a certificate of its acceptance for education in the Republic of Bulgaria, issued by the Ministry of Education and Science, and a certificate issued by the higher school that the foreigner will be trained during the relevant year; 7. proof of a fee paid for enrollment in the higher school, which shall be presented after entering the person in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria with a visa under art. 15, para. 1. (3) Permission under para. 1 without having a visa under art. 15, para. 1 can receive foreigners of Bulgarian origin who are accepted as students in regular form of education at a higher school in the Republic of Bulgaria and present a document of Bulgarian origin. To the application, except for the documents under para. 2 The foreigner also applies a certificate of birth or certificate of Bulgarian origin issued by the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad, when it is impossible to present a certificate of birth. The Certificate of Bulgarian Origin shall apply where it is impossible for the Directorate of Migration or Department/sectors/groups of the Ministry of Interior to apply an information system of the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad on the Bulgarian origin of the foreigner. (4) The permit for continued residence for the duration of the training, but for no more than two years, may be granted to foreigners who will carry out part of their studies in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, hold a valid residence permit issued by another Member State of the European Union and are covered by a Union programme or multilateral programme providing for training in more than one Member State, or by an agreement between two or more higher schools of which at least one is Bulgarian and are entitled to entry and stay for the purpose of conducting part of their training in a higher school from one or several second Member States. (5) The foreign student shall apply for permission under para. 4 e-mail to the address of the Directorate of Migration or the national contact point on mobility issues after having been accepted in the first Member State and as soon as he has learned of the planned mobility to the Republic of Bulgaria. The application is in accordance with the rules of application of the law, and to it the foreigner applies the following documents, accompanied by translation into Bulgarian: 1. a document stating that the foreigner conducts part of his training in the Republic of Bulgaria under a Union programme or a multilateral programme providing for training in more than one Member State, or an agreement between two or more higher education schools, of which at least one is Bulgarian, unless the foreigner student is obliged to conduct part of the studies in a higher school located in the territory of another Member State; 2. a document stating that the foreigner has been accepted as a student at a university in the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as the planned duration and dates of mobility; 3. a valid residence permit issued by another Member State of the European Union in which the foreigner has been accepted as a student for the entire period of mobility; 4. proof of a fee paid for training in the relevant university where required; 5. a copy of a regular passport or replacement document with the pages of the photo, personal data and the stamp for the last entry into the country; the original of the passport or replacement document shall also be presented to verify the authenticity of the copy; 6. evidence of a secured dwelling; 7. compulsory medical insurance valid in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria where the person is not insured under the Health Insurance Act, except where the foreigner benefits from health insurance when enrolled in the higher school; 8. evidence of stable, regular, predictable and sufficient means of maintenance, without resorting to the social support system, not less than the minimum monthly salary, minimum scholarship or minimum pension for the country, for the period of residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria; 9. a certificate of criminality issued by the country of nationality of the foreigner or by the State of his usual residence at the time of the initial submission of the application. (6) The application under para. 5 shall be considered within 30 days of its receipt. The Migration Directorate may request from the competent authorities of the first Member State the necessary information regarding the stay of the alien in its territory. When one of the conditions under para. is not fulfilled. 5 or not one of the required documents has been presented, the Migration Directorate may object to the student's mobility to the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria within the 30-day period. The objection shall be in writing and shall be sent immediately to the student and to the competent authorities of the first Member State. In the latter case the student is not allowed in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (7) Within 14 days of entering the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the foreigner under para. 5 must appear in the Directorate of Migration and present a document for a paid state fee for issuing a permit for continued residence and a copy of a regular passport or replacement document. (8) Permission under para. 1 in order to conduct part of his education in a higher school in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria may receive a foreigner who has a visa under art. 15, para. 1 and not covered by a programme or by an agreement under para. 4 after submission of an application under para. 2. (9) Permission for long stay up to one year may be granted to foreigners who are in possession of a visa under art. 15, para. 1 and are students accepted for secondary education in the framework of a student exchange programme. (10) Application for authorisation under para. 9 shall be submitted to the Directorate of Migration or to the Department/sector/group of "Migration" at the Ministry of Interior regional departments. The application shall be in accordance with the rules of application of the law and shall be annexed to it by the foreigner: 1. a copy of a regular passport or replacement document with the pages of the photo, personal data, visa under art. 15, para. 1 where required, and the stamp for the last entry into the country; the original of the passport or replacement document shall also be presented to verify the authenticity of the copy; 2. certificate of admission on the territory of the country for education in the middle degree of education; 3. evidence of participation in a student exchange programme; 4. documents issued by the student exchange organisation ensuring that its maintenance, training, health and return costs are covered; 5. documents certifying the acceptance of the student for the entire duration of his stay by a family meeting the specified conditions and selected in accordance with the rules of the student exchange programme in which he participates or in a special accommodation complex within the institution; 6. notarized declaration of consent of parents or guardians or trustees. (11) Long-term residence permit for the duration of the internship, but for no more than one year may be granted to foreigners who are interns under art. 38a of the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility and have a visa under art. 15, para. 1. (12) Application for authorisation under para. 11 shall be submitted to the Directorate of Migration or to the Department/sector/group of "Migration" at the Ministry of Interior regional departments. The application shall be in accordance with the rules of application of the law and shall be annexed to it by the foreigner: 1. a copy of a regular passport or replacement document with the pages of the photo, personal data, visa under art. 15, para. 1 where required, and the stamp for the last entry into the country; the original of the passport or replacement document shall also be presented to verify the authenticity of the copy; 2. evidence of a secured dwelling; 3. compulsory medical insurance valid in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria where the person is not insured under the Health Insurance Act, except where the foreigner benefits from health insurance when enrolled in higher school; 4. evidence of stable, regular, predictable and sufficient means of maintenance, without resorting to the social support system, not less than the minimum monthly salary, minimum scholarship or minimum pension for the country, for the period of residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria; 5. a certificate of criminality issued by the country of nationality of the foreigner or by the State of his usual residence at the time of the initial submission of the application; 6. a copy of an employment contract containing details of the duration of the internship, place and conditions of the internship; 7. certificate for an internship programme; 8. certificate that he has passed or will pass language training to acquire the necessary knowledge for the purpose of the internship; 9. a document certifying a degree of higher education obtained within the two years preceding the date of submission of the application or that it has recorded an educational course leading to the acquisition of a degree of higher education. (13) Upon completion of his studies as a student in a regular form of education at a higher school in the Republic of Bulgaria, a foreigner who has received a permit for long stay in the Republic of Bulgaria may be authorised for a period of up to 9 months after submitting an application in accordance with the rules of application of the law, at least 30 days before the expiry of the authorised period of residence to which the documents under para. 2, p. 1.. 3 and a document from the higher school for completion of their studies. The Department of Migration or Department/sector/group of "Migration" at the Regional Departments of the Ministry of Interior shall check whether the foreigner within 7 working days after completion of his studies at the higher school has submitted an application to the Employment Agency for Registration as a job seeker under the Employment Promotion Act. The authorisation shall be granted within 30 days of the submission of the application. (14) In the cases referred to in para. 1, 3, 4, 8, 9 and 11 the period of validity of the passport or replacement document of the foreigner shall cover at least the period of residence requested. (15) The Ministry of Education and Science provides a service to the Directorate of Migration a certificate of acceptance of a foreigner for training in the Republic of Bulgaria. (16) Applications, except those under para. 5 and 13 shall be submitted no later than 14 days before the expiry of the authorised period of residence of the foreigner in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Applications, except those under para. 5 and 13 shall be considered and decided within 14 days. In the case of legal and factual complexity and the need to submit additional documents, this period may be extended by one month, notified in writing by the foreigner, indicating that the necessary documents and information should be submitted within 14 days. Where the additional documents and information are not submitted within the specified time limit, the proceedings shall be terminated and the application shall not be re-examined. (17) "Migration" Directorate and Department/sector/group "Migration" at the Ministry of Interior Regional Departments shall agree each application with the State Agency "National Security" which shall, within 7 days of its entry, send a written opinion under art. 41, para. 1, t. 2 of the State Agency Act "National Security." (18) After issuing a permit for long stay under para. 1, 3, 4, 8, 9, 11 and 13 documents shall be issued as required by Regulation (EC) No 1030/2002. In the permits under para. 1, 3, 4 and 8 in the field 9 in the field of the type of authorisation is marked "Student" and in the permissions under para. 11 in the field (19) Decisions taken on the basis of applications for residence under this Article shall be notified in writing by the Administrative Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u70	I shall discuss paragraphs 5 to 11 including those renumbered with a new numbering from 4 to 10. Are there any statements on these paragraphs? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 5 to 11: 5 become Paragraph 4 as amended by the Commission; paragraphs 6, 7, 8 and 9 shall become paragraphs 5, 6, 7 and 8; § 10, which shall become § 9 as amended by the Commission; and § 11, which shall become § 10 as amended by the Commission. Vote 65 MPs: 62, none, abstention 3. The abovementioned paragraphs have been adopted. Here you are, Mrs Daritkova, on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u71	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The painting of the absent opposition is typical for the Forty-fourth National Assembly. For a long time they were outside the parliament, and now we see systematic sabotage of the meetings. The typical behavior of the leader of the BSP is a brief appearance in the Chamber with another declaration that demonstrates a severe discrepancy between words and deeds. The claim that you are against lobbying is a disaster of what we have heard in the last weeks of this parliamentary tribune by Mrs. Ninova. She's lobbying for a textbook, she's lobbying for a vaccine, and this fund claims to strongly oppose such a phenomenon. I want to assure you that all are aware that cases are more valuable than words. Therefore, I call on the Bulgarian citizens to refer to the maxim. I would also like to emphasise that the selection of MPs is extremely important for the future lists of BSP, because in this Parliament we have seen a severe lack of expertise. You cannot make a draft decision and oblige the Assembly to discuss it, even more so, to want to oblige the government to violate current legislation regarding medicinal products in human medicine, which are also included in vaccine prophylaxis preparations for the disease of COVID-19. Under European Union legislation, Regulation No 726/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 March 2004 a centralised European Union procedure for the authorisation of medicinal products has been introduced and its scope has been regulated. The centralised procedure is mandatory for certain products. These include products with a new active substance obtained by biotechnology, as well as those for the prevention and treatment of viral diseases, as is the vaccine against COVID-19 in all its varieties. Under the centralised procedure, a marketing authorisation for a medicinal product is granted by the European Commission on a proposal from the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use to the European Medicines Agency after an in-depth expert evaluation of the quality, efficacy and safety of the medicinal product concerned. The authorisation shall be valid for all Member States of the European Union. In addition to lack of expertise, no information is available because the European Medicines Agency is currently conducting scientific consultations with representatives of the Russian producer. I would like to remind you that 300,000 doses of vaccines have been delivered to Bulgaria for the time being. So far, 188,512 vaccines have been given, and if you cannot explain the difference in quantities, I will remind you that we have adopted a vaccination plan which ensures that the second dose of each vaccine is given to each vaccine, so that we can not really compromise the vaccine prophylaxis process. I would also like to emphasise that the responsibility of each Member of the National Assembly for the authority of Parliament is clear. In this sense, it does not matter whether we are opposition or ruling. The responsibility during an epidemic of every single people elected here is to respect the laws and Constitution of the country, to help the state's actions against the epidemic, something that must unite us regardless of whether we are defined or whether our people have defined ourselves as opposition and ruling. The systematic sabotage that BSP is doing to all the government's actions, both with regard to measures against the spread of coronavirus and with regard to the vaccination plan, is in no way beneficial to parliamentaryism or to the authority of political parties. Because then, when we have national challenges, we need to unite and everyone in one direction to ensure that the country's interest is that the epidemic is limited so that we can return to our normal way of life. I really call for responsible behavior. By no means to speculate on topics that are sensitive to society, because this does not in any way allow us here to give our guarantee for the life and health of Bulgarian citizens. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Mr. Tzipov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become §11: ..................................................... Article 24i is amended as follows: Art. 24th. (1) The permit for continued residence and work type "Single permit for residence and work" shall be granted to foreigners who are eligible for access to the labour market under the Bulgarian legislation and shall be in possession of a visa under art. 15, para. 1 or residence permit issued in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1032002. (2) The authorisation under para. 1 shall be issued for a period of three years and where the contract of employment is shorter than three years, the authorisation shall be granted for the duration of the contract. (3) The foreigner with the right of residence in the country shall not be required upon initial application for authorisation under para. 1 be outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The foreigner is not required to be outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and upon subsequent application for permission under para. 1. (4) Application for authorisation under para. 1 shall be submitted to the Directorate of Migration or to the Department/sector/group of "Migration" at the Ministry of Interior regional offices by the employer or person personally empowered by him or by the foreigner, where there is a permit for long stay, and the application shall be signed by the employer. Where the foreigner has a permit for continued residence, the time limit for submitting the application shall be up to two months before the expiry of his stay. When submitting the application to the applicant, information shall be provided on all documents necessary to obtain the authorisation, including the rights and obligations arising from it for the foreigner. (5) The application shall be filed in accordance with the rules of application of the law indicating the electronic address for correspondence and to which it applies: 1. a copy of a passport or a replacement document with the pages of the photo and the personal data of the foreigner; 2. a certificate of criminality issued by the State of which the foreigner is a national or by the State of his usual residence.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 1; 3. evidence of a secured dwelling; 4. justification for access to the labour market of the foreigner in which the employer: (a) indicate the facts and circumstances requiring the employment of an alien worker; (b) provide copies of advertisements in local and national mass media and the Internet; c) motivates its refusal to hire a Bulgarian citizen, national of another Member State of the European Union, of a State of a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation or present under art. 9, para. 1, t. 2 - 6 of the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility, which meets the requirements set out in the advertisement; 5. documents for education, specialty, competence, professional qualification and experience of the foreigner, legalized in the appropriate order, accompanied by certified translation in Bulgarian and corresponding to the requirements for taking up the job specified by the employer when announcing the vacancy, according to the National Classification of Occupations and Jobs, 2011. In the case of an initial application for authorisation under para. 1; 6. a statement by the employer on the employment relationship of foreigners named by passport, date of birth, nationality, grounds and period of residence; 7. a reference statement signed by the employer for the average number of employees by employment relationship in the previous 12 months specified by months: (a) Bulgarian nationals, nationals of a Member State of the European Union, of a State of a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, and of the Swiss Confederation, including with a permit for long-term or permanent residence in the Republic of Bulgaria and their family members; (b) foreigners entitled to asylum or granted international protection in the Republic of Bulgaria under the Law on Asylum and Refugees and members of their families; (c) foreigners for whom employment is envisaged under an international contract to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country; (d) foreigners who are members of a family of Bulgarian citizens; (e) foreigners who are members of a family of a national of a Member State of the European Union, of a State of a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation, who, under international agreements concluded with the European Union, are entitled to free movement; 8. a statement by the employer that the conditions of work and payment are met and that they are not less favourable than the conditions for the Bulgarian citizens for the respective category of work............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 1; 9. certified by the employer a copy of the contract of employment concluded, for a position with a code under the National Classification of Occupations and Jobs, 2011, signed by the Parties and effective from the date of issue of the residence document of the worker, and a copy of the job description, where it is an integral part of the contract; 10. document that the conditions for the pursuit of a profession included in the list of regulated professions in the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 3 of the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications; 11. compulsory medical insurance valid on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for the entire period of residence where the foreigner is not insured under the Insurance Act................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 12. other documents required under the Bulgarian legislation for the employment of the employer. (6) The professional skills and experience of the foreigner shall be certified by a work experience document issued by a competent authority of the country in which the employer, employment and professional experience are designated for the post held. The requirement to submit documents under para. 5, t. 5 and 7 shall not apply to: 1. foreigners whose employment derives from the implementation of international treaties to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country; 2. guest lecturers, lecturers and teachers in Bulgarian higher and secondary schools with a decision respectively of the academic councils of higher schools and of the regional managements of education; 3. Artists-executors within the meaning of art. 74 of the Copyright Act and its related rights with proven professional competence after the interest of the Ministry of Culture in hiring them; 4. Athletes and coaches in sports clubs, confirmed by Bulgarian national sports federations and unions interest in hiring them because of their special personal qualities and high level of professional knowledge and skills. (7) Where the exercise of the profession and the activity is required by a Bulgarian authority, authorisation or licence, to the application under para. 4 shall apply: 1. a document issued on the basis of art. 213, para. 4 t. 3 of the Law on pre-school and school education for teachers in schools; 2. a licence issued by the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency or authorised by him as Deputy Executive Director for Gambling Activities; 3. a certificate from the relevant sports federation and national sports organisation that the foreigner has the status of a professional competitor according to the requirements of the international federation of the relevant sport, has special personal qualities and a high degree of professional skills and is justified in being mapped into the relevant sports federation or sports club... for athletes and coaches; 4. a copy of the sports licence issued by the Minister of Youth and Sports, or a certificate from the respective licensed sports federation or national sports organisation for athletes and coaches; 5. a document issued by the Ministry of Culture for an interest in the hiring of foreigners for artists-executors within the meaning of art. 74 of the Copyright and Related Rights Act. (8) When the application under para. 4 was submitted to the Department/sector/group at the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior, together with the documents attached to it, is sent immediately by electronic means to the Directorate of Migration and to the territorial departments of the State Agency of National Security. No later than three days after its submission, the application shall also be sent in original. Within the term referred to in the sentence, the second department/sector/group of "Migration" shall carry out a verification where there are reasonable doubts that the foreigner will not live at the address declared by him and the verification report shall be sent together with the application. (9) "Migration" Directorate shall verify the documents received, in the absence of a document, as well as, where necessary, the submission of additional documents under para. The applicant shall inform the applicant by electronic means of such circumstances and shall set a 7-day period for the removal of irregularities. (10) When within the period referred to in para. 9 documents shall not be submitted, the Director of the Directorate of Migration (Migration) or an official authorised by him shall terminate the procedure for issuing an authorisation under para. 1. (11) "Migration" Directorate shall send by electronic means to the Employment Agency the applications for which the proceedings have not been terminated under para. 10, together with the attached documents, within 14 days of submission of the application, such as the documents under para. 5, t. 5 shall also be sent in original. Where the foreigner has a long stay on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the application shall also be accompanied by a reference to his authorised right of residence. Applications and attached documents shall also be sent by electronic means to the State Agency of National Security and within 14 days shall send a written opinion under art. 41, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on State Agency "National Security" when the person is in the territory of the country and in the cases under para. 15 within 10 days of giving an opinion on the visa application under art. 15, para. 1. (12) Within 15 days of receipt of a file under para. 11 The Employment Agency shall send by electronic means to the Directorate-General for Migration a written opinion of the Executive Director of the Employment Agency on the existence or absence of grounds for granting access to the labour market, and in case of irregularities in the documents and, where necessary, the Agency for Employment shall inform the Directorate for Migration and that period shall cease until the documents have been received or the irregularities have been removed. The Migration Directorate shall inform the applicant by electronic means of the need to provide additional documents or to remove irregularities and shall set a 7-day deadline for this. (13) Where, within 7 days, the additional documents are not provided or the irregularities are not removed, the Director of the Directorate of Migration (Migration) or an official authorised by him shall terminate the procedure for issuing the authorisation under para. 1 and informs the Employment Agency. (14) When the application under para. 4 is submitted by the employer or a person empowered by him, the Directorate of Migrantia (Migration) sends an e-mail to the employer a message within three days of the adoption of positive opinions under para. 11 and 12, indicating that there are grounds for granting access to the labour market for the foreigner. The message is also sent to the Department of Consular Relations at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. (15) The employer shall inform the foreigner of the communication under para. 14, within 20 days of sending the message under para. 14 to the employer the foreigner must take action to apply for a visa under art. 15, para. 1. In cases of refusal to issue a visa under art. 15, para. 1 Directorate of Consular Relations at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs informs the Directorate of Migration and the State Agency of National Security. (16) Within 14 days of entering the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria with a visa under art. 15, para. 1 The foreigner shall be personally present in the Directorate of Migration or in the Department/sector/group of the Ministry of Interior and shall apply to the application under para. 4 a copy of the page of his passport with the visa applied and compulsory medical insurance valid on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for the entire period of residence when not provided under the Health Insurance Act. Where, within the period referred to in the sentence, the documents are not presented first, the Director of the Directorate of Migration (Migration) or an official authorised by him shall terminate the authorisation procedure under para. 1. (17) The Director of the Directorate of Migration (Migration) or an official authorised by him shall issue or refuse a permit for continued residence and work type (s) within three days of the submission of the documents under para. 16. After the authorisation is issued a document shall be issued as required by Regulation (EC) No 1032002 and a single residence and work permit shall be marked in the field of the authorised type. (18) The procedure for issuing a permit for continued residence and work type.. A single permit for residence and work................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In the course of the procedure, the applicant or a person authorised by him may waive the application submitted under para. 4 which is grounds for termination of proceedings. (19) The employer shall inform the Directorate for Migration of any change affecting the criteria for acceptance in the course of the application procedure and of termination of the employment relationship with the foreigner within three days from the date of the change or termination of employment. (20) Decisions taken on the basis of the application shall be notified to the applicant in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u74	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov. You've done well with your part of the report. It's been a pleasure! Mr. Manev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u75	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... Article 24k is amended as follows: Art. 24k. (1) A permit for continued residence for the purpose of employment as a seasonal worker may be granted a foreigner who is eligible for access to the labour market under the Bulgarian legislation and has a visa under art. 15, para. 1. (2) When applying for the authorisation under para. 1 The foreigner must reside outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (3) The authorisation under para. 1 shall be issued for the term of the contract of employment, but not less than 90 days and not more than 9 months within each period of 12 months. The authorisation may be extended once within the period of 9 months in the case of continuation of the employment contract with the same employer or in the case of a change of employer. (4) When the authorisation under para. 1 shall expire until a continuation or renewal procedure is in progress, the alien shall be entitled to reside in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria until a decision on the application has been taken, provided that it has been submitted within the period of validity of the authorisation under para. 1 and has not expired the maximum term under para. 3. (5) The authorisation under para. 1 is issued under an accelerated procedure for foreigners who have worked at least once in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria as seasonal workers in the last 5 years. (6) "Migration" Directorate or Department/sector/group "Migration" at the Ministry of Interior regional departments shall provide information on all documents necessary to obtain a permit for continued residence for employment as seasonal workers, including the rights and obligations arising from it for the foreigner. (7) For the issue of the authorisation under para. 1 the employer or the person empowered by him shall submit a written application to the Directorate of Migration or to the Department/sector/group of the Office of the Ministry of Interior. (8) The application under para. 7 shall be submitted in accordance with a model, in accordance with the rules of application of the law, indicating the e-mail address for correspondence and to which it applies: 1. a copy of a regular passport or replacement document with the pages of the photo and personal data; the passport or replacement document must have been issued in the last 10 years and their period of validity shall cover at least the period of validity of the authorisation under para. 1; 2. a declaration by the employer that the foreigner is adequately provided, meeting all the requirements for safety and health, housing until the expiry of the contract or other evidence of a secured dwelling; 3. documents for education, specialty, competence, professional qualification and experience of the foreigner, legalized in the appropriate order, accompanied by certified by a notary or by the Department of Consular Relations. 4. a declaration by the employer that the conditions of work and payment are met and that they are not less favourable than the conditions for the Bulgarian citizens for the respective category of work; 5. certified by the employer a copy of the contract of employment concluded under the terms of the Bulgarian legislation, for a position coded under the National Classification of Occupations and Jobs, 2011, signed by the parties and effective from the date of issue of the document of residence of the foreigner, and a copy of the job description, where it is an integral part of the contract; 6. document that the conditions for the pursuit of a profession included in the list of regulated professions in the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 3 of the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications; 7. a document showing that the employer is active in the economic sectors included in the List of Economic Sectors under art. 25 of the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility; 8. other documents required under the Bulgarian legislation for taking up the job specified by the employer when necessary. (9) When the application under para. 7 was submitted to the Department/sector/group of "Migration" at the Ministry of Interior Regional Directorates, together with the documents attached to it, is sent immediately by electronic means to the Directorate-General "Migration" and to the territorial departments of the State Agency "National Security" and the application with the attached documents is sent within three days and in the original, accompanied by a document of verification of the address, if there is any doubt that the foreigner will not live at that address. (10) "Migration" Directorate shall carry out a verification of the documents received, in the absence of a document, as well as, where necessary, the submission of additional documents under para. 8 shall inform the applicant by electronic means of such circumstances and shall set a 7-day period for the removal of irregularities. (11) When within the term under para. 10 documents shall not be submitted, the Director of the Directorate of Migration (Migration) or an official authorised by him shall terminate the procedure for issuing an authorisation under para. 1. (12) "Migration" Directorate shall send by electronic means to the Employment Agency the applications under para. 7 on which the proceedings are not terminated and the documents attached thereto within 14 days of the submission of the application, such as the documents under para. 8, p. 3 shall also be sent in original. When applying for the continuation of seasonal employment, the application shall also be accompanied by a reference to the authorised right of residence of the foreigner in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The application and the attached documents shall also be sent electronically to the State Agency of National Security, which shall, within 14 days of their entry, send them a written opinion under art. 41, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on State Agency "National Security" when the person is in the territory of the country and in the cases under para. 17 within 10 days of giving an opinion on the visa application under art. 15, para. 1. (13) The Executive Director of the Employment Agency shall send, by electronic means, to the Directorate-General for Migration, a written opinion on the existence or absence of grounds for granting access to the labour market within 10 days of receipt of the application to the Employment Agency. In the case of para. 5 this term is 5 days. (14) In the case of irregularities found in the documents, and where necessary for the submission of additional documents by the applicant, the Employment Agency shall notify within 7 days by electronic means the Directorate of Migration. The term under para. 13 stops running until the irregularities are resolved or the required documents are received. (15) The migration department shall inform the applicant by electronic means of the circumstances under para. 14 and lays down a 7-day period for the removal of irregularities or for the submission of the required documents. Where, within the period referred to in the sentence, the irregularities are not removed first or the documents are not presented, the Director of the Directorate of Migration (Migration) or an official authorised by him shall terminate the procedure for issuing the authorisation under para. 1 and informs the Employment Agency. (16) "Migration" Directorate shall send an electronic message to the employer within three days of the adoption of positive opinions under para. 12 and 13, indicating that there are grounds for granting access to the labour market for the foreigner. The message is also sent to the Department of Consular Relations at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. (17) The employer shall inform the foreigner of the communication under para. 16, within 20 days of sending the message under para. 16 to the employer the foreigner must take action to apply for a visa under art. 15, para. 1. In cases of refusal to issue a visa under art. 15, para. 1 Directorate of Consular Relations. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs informs the Directorate of Migration. (18) Within 7 days of entering the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria with a visa under art. 15, para. 1 The foreigner shall be personally present in the Directorate of Migration or in the Department/sector/group of the Ministry of Interior and shall apply to the application under para. 7 a copy of his passport containing the visa application page and compulsory medical insurance valid on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for the entire period of residence when not provided under the Health Insurance Act. Where, within the period referred to in the sentence, the documents are not presented first, the Director of the Directorate of Migration (Migration) or an official authorised by him shall terminate the authorisation procedure under para. 1. (19) The Director of the Directorate of Migration (Migration) or an official authorised by him shall issue or refuse a permit for continued residence for the purpose of employment as a seasonal worker within three days of the submission of the documents under para. 18. (20) After issuing a permit for continued residence for employment as a seasonal worker, a document shall be issued by the Directorate-General for Migration (Migration) or Department/sectors/groups (Migration) at the Sofia Directorate for Internal Affairs or the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior as required by Regulation (EC) No 1032002, and in the field of the authorised type (Migration). In case of change of employer and after submission of an opinion by the Employment Agency subject to the conditions laid down in para. A new permit for long stay shall be issued for the purpose of employment as a seasonal worker and a document as required by Regulation (EC) No 1032002 with a period of validity up to the period of the original issue. (21) The employer shall notify the Directorate for Migration of termination of employment with the foreigner within three days of the date of termination of employment. (22) The procedure for granting a permit for continued residence for the purpose of employment as a seasonal worker shall not be longer than two months. (23) Until completion of the proceedings, the employer or his authorised person may waive the application, which is grounds for termination of the proceedings. (24) When the application for authorisation under para. 1 is rejected because of the employer's fault, he owes the foreigner compensation according to the Bulgarian legislation. (25) For decisions taken on the basis of the application under para. 7, the applicant shall be notified in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Code. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 13. Under § 15 there is a proposal from the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 is added at the 2. In para. 10 is finally a comma and is added with the exception of art. 24b, para. Art. 18 and art. 24c, para. 13.................................................................................. 3. The creation of para. 12: The reasons for refusals to issue residence permits or extension of the period of residence under art. 10, para. 1, t. 1 "3" as well as when disclosure of the data and circumstances on the basis of which the decision was taken affects or could directly affect the foreign policy and international relations of the Republic of Bulgaria or national security are indicated in a separate document drawn up by the relevant competent authorities. In the event that this document contains classified information, it shall be drawn up in accordance with the Law on the Protection of Classified Information.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u76	I shall open the debates referred to in paragraphs 12 to 15 including which receive a new numbering from 11 to 14. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the texts of paragraphs 12 and 13 in the version of the Commission, which shall receive a new numbering of 11 and 12; § 14, which shall become § 13; and the wording of § 15 by the version of the Commission which shall become § 14. Vote 73 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 2. Paragraphs have been adopted. Here you go, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u77	We continue with § 16, honourable Members of Parliament. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16. which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... Article 33k is amended as follows: Art. 33k. (1) The permit for long-term residence and work type of the EU Blue Card shall be granted to foreigners eligible for the exercise of highly qualified employment under the Bulgarian legislation and shall be in possession of a visa under art. 15, para. 1 or permission for long stay in the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) The permit for long-term residence and work type "Synthesis card" shall be issued for a period of up to 4 years. Where the term of the contract of employment is shorter, the authorisation shall be granted for the duration of the contract extended by three months and may be renewed on grounds of re-issue. (3) Application for the authorisation under para. 1 shall be submitted to the Directorate of Migration or to the Department/sector/group of "Migration" at the Department of Interior of the Ministry of Interior by the employer or person personally empowered by him or by the foreigner when there is a permit for continued residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and the application shall be signed by the employer. Where the foreigner has a permit for continued residence, the time limit for submitting the application shall be up to 60 days prior to his expiry. (4) "Migration" Directorate or Department/sector/group "Migration" at the Ministry of Interior regional departments shall provide information on all documents necessary to obtain the authorisation, including the rights and obligations arising from it for the foreigner. (5) The application shall be filed in accordance with the rules of application of the law indicating the electronic address for correspondence and to which it applies: 1. a copy of a passport or a replacement document with the pages of the photo and the personal data of the foreigner; 2. a certificate of criminality issued by the State of which the foreigner is a national or by the State of his usual residence.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 1; 3. evidence of a secured dwelling; 4. justification for access to the labour market of the foreigner in which the employer: (a) indicate the facts and circumstances requiring the employment of an alien worker; (b) motivates its refusal to hire a Bulgarian citizen, a national of another Member State of the European Union, of a State of a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation or of a person referred to in art. 9, para. 1, t. 2 - 6 of the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility, which meets the requirements set out in the advertisement; 5. documents for education, specialty, competence, professional qualification and experience of the worker.. Foreigner, legalized in the appropriate order and accompanied by certified by a notary or by the Department of Consular Relations........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 6. a declaration by the employer that the conditions of work and payment are met and that they are not less favourable than the conditions for the Bulgarian citizens for the respective category of work............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 7. certified by the employer a copy of the contract of employment concluded under the terms of the Bulgarian legislation, for a position with a code under the National Classification of Occupations and Jobs, 2011, signed by the parties and effective from the date of issue of the document of residence of the laborer, and a copy of the job description, where it is an integral part of the contract; 8. document that the conditions for the pursuit of a profession included in the list of regulated professions in the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 3 of the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications; 9. compulsory medical insurance valid on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for the entire period of residence where the foreigner is not insured under the Health Insurance Act and is authorised to stay on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria; 10. other documents required under the Bulgarian legislation for the employment of the employer, where necessary. (6) When the application under para. 5 was submitted to the Department/sector/group of "Migration" at the Ministry of Interior Regional Affairs Directorates, together with the documents attached to it, is sent immediately electronically to the Directorate-General "Migration" and to the territorial departments of the State Agency "National Security" and after which within three days are sent in the original, accompanied by an address check document, if there is any doubt that the foreigner will not live at that address. (7) The Department of Migration shall carry out a verification of the documents under para. 5 and in the absence of a document and, where necessary, the submission of additional documents shall inform the applicant by electronic means of such circumstances and shall set a 7-day period for the submission of documents. Where the documents are not submitted within the specified time limit, the Director of the Directorate for Migration (Migration) or an official authorised by him shall terminate the proceedings for the granting of a permit for continued residence and work type. (8) "Migration" Directorate shall send by electronic means to the Employment Agency the applications under para. 5 on which the proceedings are not terminated and the documents attached thereto within 14 days of the submission of the application, such as the documents under para. 5, t. 5 shall also be sent in original. Where the foreigner has a long stay on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the application shall also be accompanied by a reference to his authorised right of residence. The foreigner with the right to long stay in the country shall not be required upon initial application for permission under para. 1 be outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Migration Directorate shall send the application by electronic means with all documents of the State Agency "National Security" which shall, within 14 days, send a written opinion under art. 41, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on State Agency "National Security" when the person is in the territory of the country and in the cases under para. 13, within 10 days of giving an opinion on the visa application under art. 15, para. 1. (9) The Executive Director of the Employment Agency shall send by electronic means to the Directorate of Migration a written opinion on the existence or absence of a basis for the exercise of highly qualified employment within 14 days of receipt of the application to the Employment Agency. (10) In case of irregularities found in the documents as well as where necessary the applicant's submission of additional documents within 7 days shall notify the Agency for Employment by electronic means of the Directorate for Migration. The term under para. 9 stops running until the required documents are received. (11) The migration department shall inform the applicant by electronic means of the circumstances under para. 10 and lays down a 7-day period for the removal of irregularities or for the submission of the required documents. Where within the prescribed period the irregularities are not removed or the documents are not presented, the Director of the Directorate of Migration shall or an official authorised by him shall terminate the authorisation procedure under para. 1 and informs the Employment Agency. (12) When the application under para. 5 is submitted by an employer or a person authorised by him, the Directorate of Migration and the employer shall send an electronic message to the employer within three days of positive opinions under para. 8 and 9 indicating that there are grounds for exercising highly qualified employment for the foreigner. The message is also sent to the Department of Consular Relations at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. (13) The employer shall inform the foreigner of the communication under para. 12, within 20 days of sending the message under para. 12 to the employer the foreigner must take action to apply for a visa under art. 15, para. 1. In cases of refusal to issue a visa under art. 15, para. 1 Directorate of Consular Relations at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs informs the Directorate of Migration and the State Agency of National Security. (14) Where the application is submitted by the employer or an authorised person by him, the foreigner who entered the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria with a visa under art. 15, para. 1, within 7 days after its entry, he is personally present in the Directorate of Migration and in the Department/sector/group of the Ministry of Interior and applies to the application under para. 5 a copy of his passport containing the visa application page and compulsory medical insurance valid on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for the entire period of residence when not provided under the Health Insurance Act. Where the documents are not submitted within the specified time limit, the Director of the Directorate of the Migration (Migration) or an official authorised by him shall terminate the proceedings for the issuing of the permit for continued residence and work of the type of the EU Blue Card (EU Blue Card). (15) The Director of the Directorate of Migration (Migration) or an official authorised by him shall issue or refuse a permit for long-term residence and work type (EU Blue Card) within three days of the submission of the documents under para. 14 where the application is submitted by the employer or an authorised person by the employer. (16) The Director of the Directorate of Migration (Migration) or an official authorised by him shall issue or refuse a permit for continued residence and work type (EU Blue Card) within 60 days of the submission of the application where the foreigner is entitled to long stay in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (17) In the case of legal and factual complexity, the time limit for the examination of the application may be extended by another month, notified in writing to the employer or foreigner. If necessary, documents and information shall be provided within 14 days of receipt of the notification. Where the additional documents and information are not provided within the specified time limit, the authorisation procedure under para. 1 is terminated. (18) A document as required by Regulation (EC) No 1032002 shall be issued following a permit for long-term residence and work, and a document as required by Regulation (EC) No 1032002 shall be entered in the field of the authorised type. In case of change of employer, para. 5.. 11, 16 and 17, after submission of a written opinion by the Employment Agency, permission for continued residence and work type................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (19) The procedure for issuing a permit for continued residence and work type. The EU Blue Card..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (20) The employer shall notify the Directorate for Migration of termination of employment with the foreigner within three days of the date of termination of employment. (21) Authorisation under para. 1 shall not be issued to foreigners who have received the right to long stay on the basis of art. 24m, as well as family members of European Union citizens who have exercised or exercised their right to free movement within the territory of the European Union and have received the right of residence under the Law on the entry, residence and departure of the Republic of Bulgaria of the citizens of the European Union and their family members. (22) Decisions taken on the basis of the application, the employer and the foreigner shall be notified in writing under the Administrative Procedure Code. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 16, i.e. 2 the words "educator" in "supplier" shall be replaced by "supplier," according to "supplier," i.e. 3 the word "production" is replaced by "production" and the words "al." 12, para. 17, para. 19th para. 20th para. The following are replaced by the following: 4 - 11 and 17 - 22 -........................................................................................................ Under § 18, there is a proposal from the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov, made in accordance with Article 18. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. Article 33n is amended as follows: Art. 33n. (1) During the first two years of high-skilled employment, the holder of the EU Blue Card shall be able to carry out activities meeting the conditions under which the EU Blue Card has been issued only on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) For the term under para. 1 the holder of the EU Blue Card is able to change his employer only under the conditions of art. 33k. (3) When unemployed, the holder of the EU Blue Card shall be entitled, within three months, to seek and start work after registering with the Employment Agency within 7 working days and may use intermediary employment services under the Employment Promotion Act. (4) The unemployment rate shall not be the basis for the Director of the Directorate of Migration or an official authorised by him to withdraw the EU Blue Card and to issue a refusal to extend the period of residence of the holder where the period of unemployment does not exceed three consecutive months or where it does not occur more than once during the period of validity of the "EU Blue Card'. (5) The law under para. 3 can be used once within the period of validity of the EU Blue Card. (6) When the holder of the EU Blue Card has not complied with the requirements of para. 1, 2 and 5, as well as when he used his rights under para. 3 and has not started work, the Director of the Directorate of Migration (Migration) or an official authorised by him shall withdraw or refuse the renewal of the EU Blue Card (EU Blue Card). The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. Article 33o is amended as follows: Art. 33o. (1) The members of the family of the holder of the EU Blue Card may be authorised for a long stay with a period of validity corresponding to the duration of residence of the holder of the EU Blue Card, in so far as the period of validity of the passport or the document requesting it allows. To issue a residence permit to family members the requirements of art. 24, para. 2. (2) Where the family of the holder of the EU Blue Card is not assembled in the first Member State, the procedure for the collection of a family as defined by the Rules for Law Enforcement shall apply. (3) For the granting of a permit for the long stay of family members of the holder of the EU Blue Card, the foreigner holding a visa under art. 15, para. 1 shall submit in person to the Directorate of Migration or to the Department/sector/group of "Migration" at the Ministry of Interior Regional Offices a model application, according to the Rules for Law Enforcement, to which it applies: 1. a copy of a regular passport or replacement document with the pages of the photo and personal data, the visa under art. 15, para. 1 where required, and the stamp for the last entry into the country; the authenticity of the copy shall also be presented with the original of the passport or replacement document; 2. marriage certificate or birth certificate; 3. medical documents for the existence of serious health reasons in cases under art. 2, para. 4; 4. evidence of a secured dwelling; 5. compulsory medical insurance valid for the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria where the person is not insured under the Health Insurance Act; 6. evidence of stable, regular, predictable and sufficient means of maintenance without resorting to the social support system of no less than the minimum monthly salary or minimum pension for the country for the period of residence. (4) To establish the facts and circumstances of art. 26, para. 4 Directorate-General "Migration" or department/sector/group "Migration" at the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior shall draw up a reasoned opinion which shall apply to the application for authorisation under para. 1. (5) The application under para. 3 shall be submitted no later than 14 days before the expiry of the authorised period of residence of the foreigner in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The application shall be examined and decided within 14 days. In the case of legal and factual complexity and the need to submit additional documents or information, that period may be extended by one month, notified in writing by the foreigner, indicating that the necessary documents and information should be submitted within 14 days. Where the additional documents and information are not submitted within the specified time limit, the Director of the Directorate of Migration (Migration) or an official authorised by him shall terminate the authorisation procedure under para. 1. (6) The Director of the Directorate of Migration (Migration) or an official authorised by him shall issue or refuse a permit for long stay under para. 1. For decisions taken on the basis of the application under para. 3 The foreigner shall be notified in writing by the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. (7) When the holder of the EU Blue Card issued in another Member State has moved to the Republic of Bulgaria pursuant to art. 33l, para. 1 and, where his family has already assembled in that Member State, members of his family shall be permitted to accompany or join him. Where the period of validity of their residence permit expires until a decision on their application is taken, a temporary residence permit shall be issued. (8) For obtaining permission for continued residence as a member of the family of the holder of the EU Blue Card in the cases under para. 7, the family member shall submit to the Directorate of Migration or to the Department/sector/group of the Ministry of Interior Regional Affairs an application according to a model under the Rules of Implementation of the Law to which it applies: 1. a copy of a regular passport or replacement document with the pages of the photo, personal data and the stamp for the last entry into the country; the original of the passport or replacement document shall also be presented to verify the authenticity of the copy; 2. evidence that they have resided as members of the family of the holder of the EU Blue Card in the first EU Member State; 3. compulsory medical insurance valid for the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria where the person is not insured under the Health Insurance Act; 4. evidence of stable, regular, predictable and sufficient means of maintenance without resorting to the social support system of no less than the minimum monthly salary or minimum pension for the country for the period of residence; 5. Evidence of a secured dwelling. (9) The application under para. 8 shall be submitted no later than one month after the entry of the family member of the holder of the EU Blue Card on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (10) The application under para. 8 shall be examined and decided within 14 days. In the case of legal and factual complexity and the need to submit additional documents or information, the period may be extended by one month, notified in writing by the foreigner, indicating that the necessary documents or information should be submitted within 14 days. Where the additional documents or information are not submitted within the specified time limit, the Director of the Directorate of Migration (Migration) or an official authorised by him shall terminate the proceedings for issuing the permit for long stay under para. 8. (11) The Director of the Directorate of Migration (Migration) or an official authorised by him shall issue or refuse a permit for long stay under para. 8. For the decisions taken on the basis of the application under para. 8 The family member of the holder of the EU Blue Card shall be notified in writing under the Administrative Procedure Code. (12) The members of the family of the holder of the EU Blue Card shall be able to obtain their own permission for long stay under the conditions of art. 24e, para. 4 as the foreigner submits to the Directorate of Migration or to the Department/sector/group of the Ministry of Interior Regional Affairs an application in accordance with the rules for implementing the law to which it applies: 1. a copy of a regular passport or replacement document with the pages of the photo and personal data; the original of the passport or replacement document shall also be presented to verify the authenticity of the copy; 2. evidence of a secured dwelling; 3. evidence of stable, regular, predictable and sufficient means of maintenance without resorting to the social support system of no less than the minimum monthly salary or minimum pension for the country; 4. compulsory medical insurance valid for the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria where the person is not health insurance under the Health Insurance Act; 5. documents certifying the termination of the marriage or birth certificate; 6. Certificate from a school from the system of vocational education and training or from a university in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (13) The application under para. 12 shall be examined and decided within 14 days. In the case of legal and factual complexity and the need to submit additional documents or information, the period may be extended by one month, notified in writing by the foreigner, indicating that the necessary documents or information should be submitted within 14 days. Where the additional documents or information are not submitted within the specified time limit, the Director of the Directorate of Migration shall terminate the authorisation procedure under para. 12. (14) The Director of the Directorate of Migration (Migration) or an official authorised by him shall issue or refuse a permit for continued residence under para. 12. For the decisions taken on the basis of the application under para. 12 The applicant shall be notified in writing in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u78	Come on, Mr. Tzipov, get some rest. [[Radio.]] The fresh powers, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm Article 33p is amended as follows: Art. 33p. (1) An intra-corporate transfer permit may be granted to foreigners who are eligible for access to the labour market under the Labour Migration and Labour Mobility Act and who are in possession of a visa under art. 15, para. 1 or a permit for continued residence in the Republic of Bulgaria on the same basis, in the case of reissue. Upon initial application for permission, the foreigner must reside outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Where the foreigner has a residence permit which expires during the renewal procedure, he shall be entitled to reside in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria until a decision on the application has been taken. (2) The authorisation under para. 1 shall be issued for a period of one year and shall be renewed under the conditions of that Article. Where the term of the contract of employment is shorter than one year, the authorisation shall be granted for the duration of the contract. The period of validity of the authorisation under para. 1 may be extended to up to a maximum of three years for managers and specialists and one year for employees.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (3) The authorisation under para. 1 shall be issued in accordance with the requirements of Regulation (EC) No 1032002 in application of a single application procedure, with an indication in the field of the authorised type. (4) Application for the authorisation under para. 1 shall be submitted to the Directorate of Migration or to the Department/sector/group of "Migration" at the Sofia Directorate of the Ministry of Interior or the regional departments of the Ministry of Interior by the employer or person empowered by him or by him personally by the foreigner when he has already been granted a residence permit within 30 days before the expiry of his stay. (5) "Migration" Directorate, Department/sector/group "Migration" at the Sofia Directorate of the Ministry of Interior or the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior shall provide information on all documents necessary to obtain the authorisation, including the rights and obligations arising from it for the foreigner. (6) The application shall be submitted in accordance with the rules of application of the law indicating the e-mail address for correspondence and shall be annexed: 1. a copy of a regular passport or replacement document with the pages of the photo and personal data; the period of validity of the passport or replacement document shall cover at least the period of validity of the authorisation for the purposes of the intra-corporate transfer; it must have been issued in the last 10 years; 2. a certificate of criminality issued by the State of which the foreigner is a national or by the State of his usual residence.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 1; 3. evidence of a secured dwelling; 4. justification of the request in which the employer indicates the facts and circumstances requiring the temporary transfer of the foreigner for the purposes of the intra-corporate transfer; 5. a document for completed higher education, legalized and accompanied by certified translation for the position of staff member; 6. a statement by the employer for the employees of the company of foreigners employed under a contract of employment, with names named by passport, date of birth, nationality, grounds and period of residence; 7. a declaration by the employer that the conditions of work and payment are met and that they are not less favourable than the conditions for the Bulgarian citizens for the respective category of work............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 8. a document proving that the acceptance undertaking and the undertaking established in the third country belong to the same enterprise or group of enterprises legalized under the Bulgarian legislation and accompanied by certified by a notary or by the Department of Consular Relations. 9. a document containing data on the duration of the transfer legalized under the Bulgarian legislation and accompanied by certified by a notary or by the Department of Consular Relations. 10. documents legalized under the Bulgarian legislation, certifying that the foreigner: (a) has worked in the same undertaking or group of undertakings not less than 12 months without interruption immediately prior to the date of submission of the application for managers and specialists and not less than 6 months without interruption for staff interns; (b) possess the necessary professional experience and qualification for the position of head and specialist; (c) moved to an intra-corporate transfer; (d) continue to work in the undertaking established in the third country after the transfer; 11. a copy of the training agreement relating to the preparation of the future position of the trainee within the undertaking or group of undertakings accompanied by a description of the training programme for staff interns; the training programme shall explicitly indicate that the objective of the employment of the third-country worker is professional development or training in the field of business techniques or methods, as well as the duration of the programme and the conditions under which the staff member will be guided during the programme; 12. compulsory medical insurance valid on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for the entire period of residence when the foreigner is not insured under the Health Insurance Act and is authorised to stay on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (7) When the application under para. 6 was submitted to the Department/sector/group of "Migration" at the Sofia Directorate of the Ministry of Interior or the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior, together with the documents attached to it, is sent without delay by electronic means to the Directorate of "Migration" and to the territorial departments of the State Agency "National Security" and after which, within three days, are sent in an original accompanied by a document of verification of the address, if there is any doubt that the foreigner will not live at that address. (8) The Department of Migration shall carry out a verification of the documents under para. 6, and in the absence of a document, as well as, where necessary, the submission of additional documents shall inform the applicant by electronic means of such circumstances and shall set a 7-day period for the submission of documents. Where the documents are not submitted within the specified time limit, the Director of the Directorate of "Migration" or an official authorised by him shall terminate the proceedings for the granting of an authorisation for the continued residence of an intra-corporate transferee. (9) "Migration" Directorate shall send by electronic means to the Employment Agency the applications under para. 6 on which the proceedings are not terminated and the documents attached thereto within 14 days of the submission of the application, such as the documents under para. 6, p. 5, 8, 9 and 10 are sent in original. Where the foreigner has a long stay on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the application shall also be accompanied by a reference to his authorised right of residence. The Migration Directorate shall send the application by electronic means with all documents of the State Agency "National Security" which shall, within 14 days, send a written opinion under art. 41, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on State Agency "National Security" when the person is in the territory of the country and in the cases under para. 14 Within 10 days of the submission of an opinion on the visa application under art. 15, para. 1. (10) The Executive Director of the Employment Agency shall send, by electronic means, to the Directorate for Migration, a written opinion on the existence or absence of grounds for granting access to the labour market for the purposes of intra-corporate transfer within 14 days of receipt of the application to the Employment Agency. (11) In the case of irregularities found in the documents, as well as in the case of the submission of additional documents by the applicant, the Employment Agency shall, within 7 days, inform by electronic means the Directorate of Migration. The term under para. 10 stops running until the required documents are received. (12) The migration department shall inform the applicant by electronic means of the circumstances under para. 11 and set a 7-day period for the removal of irregularities or for the submission of required documents. Where the irregularities are not removed within the prescribed period or the documents are not presented, the Director of the Directorate for Migration and an official authorised by him shall terminate the proceedings for the granting of the permit for long stay of an intra-corporate transferee and shall inform the Employment Agency. (13) When the application under para. 6 is submitted by an employer or a person authorised by him, the Directorate of Migrantia (Migration) sends an electronic message to the employer within three days of the adoption of positive opinions under para. 9 and 10, indicating that the foreigner is entitled to permit the continued residence of an intra-corporate transfer person. The Migration Directorate also sends the message to the Consular Relations Directorate at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. (14) The employer shall inform the foreigner of the communication under para. 13, within 20 days of sending the message under para. 13 to the employer the foreigner must take action to apply for a visa under art. 15, para. 1. In cases of refusal to issue a visa under art. 15, para. 1 Directorate of Consular Relations. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs informs the Directorate of Migration. (15) Where the application is submitted by the employer or an authorised person by him, the foreigner who entered the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria with a visa under art. 15, para. 1, within 7 days after its entry, he is personally present at the Department of Migration (Migration) or Department/sector/group (Migration) at the Sofia Directorate of the Ministry of Interior or the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior and shall apply to the application under para. 6 a copy of his passport containing the visa application page and compulsory medical insurance valid on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for the entire period of residence when not provided under the Health Insurance Act. The documents submitted in the Department/sector/group of "Migration" at the Sofia Directorate of the Ministry of Interior or the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior shall be sent by electronic means to the Directorate of "Migration." Where the documents are not submitted within the specified time limit, the Director of the Directorate for Migration shall, or an official authorised by him, terminate the proceedings for the granting of the permit for the long stay of an intra-corporate transferee. (16) The Director of the Directorate of Migration (Migration) or an official authorised by him shall issue or refuse a permit for the continued residence of a person moved under an intra-corporate transfer within three days of the submission of the documents under para. 15 where the application is submitted by the employer or an authorised person. (17) The Director of the Directorate of Migration (Migration) or an official authorised by him shall issue or refuse a permit for the continued residence of an intra-corporate transfer person within 60 days of the submission of the application where the foreigner is authorised to stay on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (18) In the case of legal and factual complexity, the time limit for the examination of the application may be extended by another month, notified in writing to the employer or foreigner. If necessary, documents and information shall be provided within 14 days of receipt of the notification. Where the additional documents and information are not provided within the specified time limit, the authorisation procedure under para. 1 is terminated. (19) The procedure for granting a permit for long stay of an intra-corporate transferee shall not be longer than three months. (20) The employer shall notify the Directorate for Migration of any change affecting the criteria for acceptance in the course of the application procedure and of termination of the transfer with the foreigner within three days from the date of the change or termination of employment. (21) Authorisation under para. 1 shall not be issued to foreigners who have received the right to long stay on the basis of art. 24, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 24b, 24c or 24m, as well as family members of European Union citizens who have exercised or exercised their right to free movement within the territory of the European Union and have received the right of residence under the Law on the entry, residence and departure of the Republic of Bulgaria of the citizens of the European Union and members of their families. (22) Decisions taken on the basis of the application shall be notified to the applicant in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Code. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. Article 33q is amended as follows: Art. 33p. (1) The family members of the holder of an authorisation for a person moved under an intra-corporate transfer may be authorised for long stay on the basis of art. 24, para. 1, t. 13 for the period of residence of the holder, if they meet the conditions of art. 24, para. 2 and after a positive decision to bring together a family of a foreigner. (2) For the granting of a permit for the long stay of the family members of the holder of an intra-corporate transfer authorisation, the family member shall personally submit to the Department of Migration (Migration) or the Department/sector/group (Migration) at the Sofia Directorate of the Ministry of Interior or the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior an application on a model, according to the rules of application of the law to which he applies: 1. a copy of a regular passport or replacement document with the pages of the photo and personal data, visa under art. 15, para. 1 where required, and the stamp for the last entry into the country; the original of the passport or replacement document shall also be presented to verify the authenticity of the copy; 2. marriage certificate or birth certificate; 3. proof of a secured dwelling; 4. compulsory medical insurance valid for the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria where the person is not insured under the Health Insurance Act; 5. evidence of stable, regular, predictable and sufficient means of maintenance without resorting to the social support system of no less than the minimum monthly salary or minimum pension for the country for the period of residence. (3) To establish the facts and circumstances of art. 26, para. 4 Directorate-General of the Ministry of Interior or the Ministry of Interior shall draw up a reasoned opinion which shall apply to the application under para. 2. (4) The authorisation under para. 1 shall be issued with a period of validity corresponding to the period of residence of the holder of the intra-corporate transfer authorisation, in so far as the period of validity of the national passports or the replacement documents covers the period of residence requested. (5) The application under para. 2 shall be submitted no later than 14 days before the expiry of the authorised period of residence of the family member in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. It shall be examined and decided within 14 days. In the case of legal and factual complexity and the need to submit additional documents or information, that period may be extended by one month, notified in writing by the family member, indicating that the necessary documents and information should be submitted within 14 days. Where the additional documents or information are not submitted within the specified time limit, the Director of the Directorate of Migration shall terminate the authorisation procedure under para. 1. (6) The Director of the Department of Migration (Migration) or an official authorised by him shall issue or refuse a permit for the continued residence of a family member of a person transferred under an intra-corporate transfer. For decisions taken on the basis of the application under para. 2 The applicant shall be notified in writing in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u80	I will put to the vote the texts which Mr. Manev read from the version of § 16, which becomes § 15 on the Commission Report, all the texts read so far and the version of § 21 which becomes § 20 on the Commission Report. Vote 77 MPs: 72, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. There were colleagues who entered the Chamber but could not vote. Mr. Tzipov, request a re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u81	Re-vote, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u82	Please reschedule. Vote 74 MPs: 70, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Mr. Tzipov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Under § 22, there is a proposal from the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. Article 33c is amended as follows: Art. 33c. (1) The holder of a valid residence permit as a person moved under an intra-corporate transfer issued by a first Member State shall be entitled to stay on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria as a second Member State for up to 90 days in any 180-day period. (2) In the cases under para. 1 The receiving undertaking in the first Member State shall notify the competent authorities of the first Member State and of the Republic of Bulgaria of the planned intra-corporate transfer to an undertaking in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria within the period of validity of the authorisation issued by the first Member State. (3) In the cases under para. 1 the competent authorities of the first Member State shall notify the Republic of Bulgaria of the intended stay, its duration and its start and end date and submit the following documents: 1. valid residence permit; 2. a regular passport or replacement document; 3. evidence of a secured dwelling; 4. compulsory medical insurance; 5. a contract of employment; 6. a document proving that the acceptance undertaking and the undertaking established in the third country belong to the same enterprise or group of enterprises legalized under the Bulgarian legislation and accompanied by certified by a notary or by the Department of Consular Relations at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; 7. a document legalized under the Bulgarian legislation proving that the foreigner has the necessary professional experience and qualification for taking up the respective position; 8. a statement by the employer that the conditions of work and pay are respected and that they are not less favourable than the conditions for the Bulgarian citizens for the respective category of work. (4) The planned stay under para. 1 may take place after the expiry of the opposition period by the Directorate-General for Migration to the first Member State, which may not be longer than 20 days from receipt of the completed notification. (5) The objection under para. 4 can be done when the conditions of para 4 are not met. 3, p. 5, 6, 7 or 8, the documents presented have been acquired by fraud or falsified, and when the maximum duration of intra-corporate transfer under paras is reached. 1 or under art. 33p, para. 2. (6) In the case of opposition under para. 4 Directorate of Migration shall inform the competent authorities of the first Member State and the receiving undertaking of the first Member State. When mobility has not started, the person has no right to work in the Republic of Bulgaria as part of an intra-corporate transfer. When the mobility has begun, the Director of the Directorate of Migration or an official authorised by him shall issue an order to the person transferred under an intra-corporate transfer immediately to cease all employment and leave the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria if: (a) the Directorate-General for Migration has not been notified of the intended stay under para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. (b) The Directorate of Migration has made an objection to mobility under para. 5; (c) the Directorate-General for Migration has refused long-term mobility under art. 33rd, para. 1; (d) the authorisation granted to the person moved under an intra-corporate transfer or the authorisation for long-term mobility shall be used for purposes other than those for which it was issued; (e) the grounds on which mobility was authorised have been dropped; (f) expired on the residence permit issued by the first Member State or the first Member State has withdrawn it during mobility in the Republic of Bulgaria. (7) In the cases of an order under para. 6 The migration department shall send a request to the first Member State for acceptance of the person transferred under intra-corporate transfer and, where applicable, to the members of its family. (8) Where a request for short-term or long-term mobility of the foreigner has been made to the Republic of Bulgaria as a first Member State which has granted an authorisation to an intra-corporate transfer person has been made by a second Member State, the Republic of Bulgaria shall, in one of the following cases, allow immediately and without formalities the re-entry of the foreigner into the territory of the country and, where applicable, the members of its family, in one of the following cases: 1. the second Member State has not been notified of the intended stay; 2. the second Member State has objected to mobility; 3. the second Member State has refused long-term mobility; 4. the authorisation granted to the person moved under an intra-corporate transfer or the permit for long-term mobility shall be used for purposes other than those for which it was issued; 5. the grounds on the basis of which mobility was authorised have been dropped; 6. the period of the residence permit issued by the Republic of Bulgaria has expired or the Republic of Bulgaria has withdrawn it during the mobility in the second Member State. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 33 shall be amended as follows: Art. 33rd. (1) The holder of a valid residence permit as a person moved under an intra-corporate transfer issued by a first Member State shall be entitled to stay for more than 90 days in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria as a second Member State if he fulfils the conditions for access to the labour market under the Labour Migration and Labour Mobility Act. (2) The holder of the authorisation under para. 1 An intra-corporate transfer mobility authorisation shall be granted as required by Regulation (EC) No 1032002, with an indication in the field of (3) The Migration Directorate shall inform the competent authorities of the first Member State when issuing an intra-corporate transfer mobility authorisation. (4) The first Member State shall inform the Ministry of Interior when withdrawing authorisation for an intra-corporate transfer person. (5) The receiving undertaking shall inform the Directorate for Migration of any changes affecting the conditions on the basis of which mobility was authorised when the Republic of Bulgaria is the second Member State. (6) The holder of an authorisation for an intra-corporate transfer issued by a first Member State shall submit in person to the Directorate of Migration and to the Department/sector/group of the Ministry of Interior Directorate or the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior by model, according to the Rules for the Implementation of the Law to which the documents under art. 33p, para. 6 as well as a copy of the residence permit issued by the first Member State for the purposes of the intra-corporate transfer. In these cases no visa under Article is required. 15, para. 1. (7) In the administrative proceedings for obtaining the right of residence in the cases under para. Article 1 shall apply. 33p, para. 5 " 12,17 " 20 and 22. (8) Until a decision has been taken on the application, the person under para. 1 has the right to work in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, provided that the period under art. 33c, para. 1 and the period of validity of the authorisation granted by the first Member State has not expired and where the application is complete. (9) The holder of a valid residence permit as a person moved under an intra-corporate transfer issued by a first Member State with a authorised stay of less than 90 days may apply for a residence permit for more than 90 days in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria at least 20 days before the end of the initial authorised stay. Application for long-term mobility cannot be submitted at the same time as notification of short-term mobility. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 24 be rejected. A proposal from the MP Georgi Gokov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in a new § 32. The Commission proposes to create a new § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40, para. 1, t. 2 the words "sixteen" as "sixteen" are replaced by "sixteen" and "sixteen" as "sixteen" and "sixteen" as "sixteen" are replaced by "sixteen" and "sixteen." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 24. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 25. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 27, which shall become § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 4 is finally a comma and is added except where the order under para. 2, p. 3 has been issued on the grounds of a serious threat to public policy. 2. The creation of para. 5. . (5) When the appeal against an order under para. 2, p. 3 shall not suspend the execution of the order, but shall contain reasoned statements concerning the existence of a significant risk under art. 44a, para. 1, the court may, in its official capacity, suspend the preliminary execution in accordance with Article 1. 166, para. 3 of the Administrative Code of Procedure in the course of the complaint. Until the judgment of the Court, the measure shall not be implemented. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 27. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 29, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 A new article shall be created. 48a: Art. 48a. (1) It shall be punished with a fine of 1000 BGN. Employer scuse a natural person who: 1. do not notify the Directorate of Migration................................................................................................................................................................ 24th, para. Art. 19, art. 24k, para. Art. 21 and art. 33k, para. 20; 2. hire a foreigner who has a valid visa but has no residence permit. (2) For violations under para. 1 of the employer a legal person is imposed a penalty of 3000 BGN. (3) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 the penalty is 9,000 BGN The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 30, which shall become § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... Paragraph 1 of the additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1f after the word "worker" is added either by a foreigner. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 and the words "Season worker' are replaced by "Season worker's residence permit' for the purpose of employment as a seasonal worker. 3. point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. The Offices for the Administrative Control of Foreigners are the Directorate of Migration, Department/sectors/groups of "Migration" at the Sofia Directorate of the Interior or the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of the Interior. The Commission proposes to create a new § 30: 30. In the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG No. 9 of 2011; as amended, No. 56 from 2018) in § 65 of the transitional and final provisions, the words. Article 1 (d) (i) and (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). 10, para. 1, t. 19) and (d) The Commission proposes to establish a name The Commission proposes to create a new § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... The procedures for granting decisions and issuing permits for residence and work of third-country nationals under the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria and under the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility shall be completed in the current order. The Commission proposes to create a new § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss For the period from 13 March 2020 to 31 December 2021, the absence from the territory of the Member States of the European Union of a foreigner authorised for long-term or permanent residence shall not be the basis for imposing a forced administrative measure under art. 40, para. 1, t. 6................................................ Proposal by the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: A new § 31 is being created: ............................................................................ The provisions of art.14b shall apply until 31.12.2021 The Commission does not support the proposal. Under § 31, there is a proposal from the MP Krasimir Lipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Manoil Manev, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 31, which shall become § 33: ................................................ In the Law on the entry, residence and exit of the Republic of Bulgaria of the citizens of the European Union and members of their families (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7th para. 2 is amended as (2) The continued residence shall be for a period of five years or up to a period of five years requested by the person. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 after the words.. which is not a citizen of the European Union.............................................................................................................. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12, para. 4 the word "Map" is replaced by "The Document." 4. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 12b: Art. 12b. The directors of the Directorate of Migration, the SVR, the regional departments of the Ministry of Interior or officials authorised by them shall issue or refuse the issue of documents for residence of the persons under art. 9a and 10. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 16 is The Directors of the Directorate of Migration, the SDVR, the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior or officials appointed by them shall issue or refuse the issue of a certificate to the persons under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 and 2 the words "the permanent residence card of a family member of a Union citizen' shall be replaced by "the residence card'; (b) in para. 3, 4 and 5 the words "The permanent residence card of a family member of a Union citizen' shall be replaced by "the residence document'; 7. In § 1a of the additional provisions: (a) paragraph 4 is amended as follows: (4) The persons referred to in para. 1. 3 who have entered legally and wish to reside in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for a period of more than three months, submit a personal application to the Directorate of Migration and to the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior for the issue of a residence document under this law. Persons who have entered by the end of the transitional period shall submit the application within three months of their entry into the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and the members of their families who have acquired this quality after the end of the transitional period shall submit an application within three months of their entry into the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (b) in para. 6 the word "receipt' is replaced by "receipt'; (c) in para. 8 after the words. "The law of... is added for a long time (d) paragraph 9 is amended as follows: The persons referred to in para. 1 which has been allowed long or permanent residence and who, within the transitional period or one year after its expiry, have not applied for the issue of a document of residence on a card carrier, a fine of 50 to 300 BGN shall be imposed. and a residence document as required by this paragraph shall be issued to them; (e) in para. 10 the words "supplier' shall be replaced by "signing' a document for "supplier'; (f) in para. 11 The residence permits under para. 4 " 7" and para. The documents for residence under para. 9 shall be replaced by the documents for residence under para. 4 " 7" and para. 9.................................................................................. Under § 32, there is a proposal from the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 32, which shall become § 34: ................. In the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 59 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2: (a) c. 7a the words "one year' shall be replaced by "up to three years'; (b) To be created t. 14a: 14a. permit for long-term residence of a foreigner with an indication of the student, in the cases referred to in art. 24c, para. 4 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria is issued by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior with a period of validity of up to two years; (c) c. 18 the words "up to 5 years' shall be replaced by "from 5 years' or by requests from the person for a period of 5 years'. 2. In para. 4 t. 1 words up to 5 years and up to 5 years are replaced by 5 years or up to the person's requests for a period of 5 years and up to the person's request.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u84	Mr. Tzipov, continue with § 33 then we will stop for a debate because there is a statement from Mrs. Klisurska and Mr. Gokov. Let's read § 33 and then I'll give you the floor of speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u85	Okay. Under § 33, there is a proposal from the National Representative Georgi Gokov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 33" is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 33, which shall become § 35: .............................................................................. In the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5 para. 2 is amended as . (2) New access to the labour market for the same third-country national who is not registered with the Employment Agency as a jobseeker under this law shall be permitted when there is an interruption of employment for a period not less than: 1. three months for seasonal workers after reaching the maximum permissible period of 9 months within each period of 12 months; 2. six months after the expiration of the intra-corporate transfer under art. 32, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. six months from the date of withdrawal of the previous permission to carry out freelance activity under art. 44, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 2. Article 7 is amended as follows: Art. 7. (1) Access to the labour market of workers of third-country nationals shall be allowed for the occupation of positions for which no Bulgarian citizenship is required where: 1. the total number of third-country nationals with allowed long stay working for the local employer in the previous 12 months shall not exceed 20 percent of the average number of employees by employment relationship but for small and medium-sized enterprises within the meaning of art. 3, para. 1, t. 1 of the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Act 2. the offered working and payment conditions are no less favourable than the conditions for the Bulgarian citizens for the respective category of work; 3. the third-country national has specialised knowledge, skills and professional experience necessary for the respective position. (2) Workers of a third country with authorised access to the labour market may work either as posted or dispatched within the framework of the provision of services in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, only for the specific legal or natural person, and for those indicated in the authorisation issued by the competent authorities, place, position and duration of work. (3) The conditions for the exercise of a regulated profession in the Republic of Bulgaria by third-country nationals in employment or as self-employed persons shall be determined in accordance with the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications. (4) The Employment Agency shall provide information on all documents necessary to register employment and to provide access to the labour market under art. 40 and 44, including on the rights and obligations of the worker a third-country national, as well as information on the documents relating to employment under art. 24th, 24k, 33k and 33p of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. (5) The conditions and procedures for granting and renewing access to the labour market under para. 1 are determined by the Foreigners Act in the Republic of Bulgaria. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1, t. 1 words.............................................................................. 24, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (b) in para. 3 words without permission under art. 7, para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9, para. 1, in the text before t. 1 the words............................................................................. 7, para. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1: (aa) in the text before t. 1 the words................................................................................. 7, para. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. (bb) c. 1 the words "seven" are deleted; (c) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." the requirements laid down by other regulations for the pursuit of the profession by a foreigner in the country are not met; (dd) point 5 is repealed; (e) point 12 is amended as follows: ..12. the requested duration exceeds the maximum permissible total duration determined by law; (b) in para. 2 the words "s 5 "s 13" are replaced by "s 6 "s 13"; (c) in para. 3 after the words "Employment and employment" is a comma, added "The Director of the Directorate of Labour" is the Director of the Directorate of Labour and a comma is placed; (d) in para. 4 words................................................................................. One, two and three shall be replaced by one, and one, two 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1: (aa) c. 1 the words................................................................................. 7, para. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. (bb) c. 2 words in the decision under art. 7, para. the following points are inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (c) point 3 is repealed; (b) paragraph 2 is repealed. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 words.............................................................................. 7, para. 1, t. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: (b) paragraph 3 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u86	It's 8 o'clock. Article 15 is amended as follows: Art. 15. (1) Access to the labour market with a Single residence and work permit shall be permitted by the Ministry of Interior after received a positive written opinion from the Executive Director of the Employment Agency. (2) In the cases under para. 1 condition under art. 7, para. 1, t. 1 shall not apply to the operation of: 1. foreigners whose employment in the territory of the country results from the implementation of international treaties to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country; 2. guest lecturers, lecturers and teachers in Bulgarian higher and secondary schools with a decision respectively of the academic councils of higher schools and of the regional managements of education; 3. Artists-executors within the meaning of art. 74 of the Copyright Act and its related rights with proven professional competence after the interest of the Ministry of Culture in hiring them; 4. Athletes and coaches in sports clubs, confirmed by the Bulgarian national sports federations and unions interest in hiring them because of their special personal qualities and high level of professional knowledge and skills. 9. Article 17 is amended as follows: Art. 17. (1) Access to the labour market with the Blue Card of the European Union shall be permitted by the Ministry of Interior after received a positive written opinion from the Executive Director of the Employment Agency without applying the condition of art. 7, para. 1, t. 1. (2) In the cases under para. 1 is necessary: 1. the worker of a third-country national shall have the competence necessary for the work in question, the higher education acquired, which shall be certified by a diploma, certificate or other document issued by a competent authority after training of a duration of not less than three years held by an educational institution recognised as a higher school by the State concerned; 2. the gross salary referred to in the contract of employment of the third-country national shall be at least 1,5 times higher than the average salary in the Republic of Bulgaria, according to the available data for the last 12 months prior to the conclusion of the contract of employment; 3. the term of the contract of employment shall not be less than 12 months. 10. Article 19 is amended as follows: Art. 19. The members of the family of the holder of the European Union Blue Card shall have the right to work in employment and to carry out freelance activities in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period of residence of the holder, with the permission of the Executive Director of the Employment Agency for access to the labour market under this law. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20 para. 2 is amended as (2) For the term under para. 1 the holder of the European Union Blue Card may change its employer under conditions and by order defined by the Foreigners Act in the Republic of Bulgaria. 12. Article 21 shall be repealed. 13. Article 22 is amended as follows: Art. 22. Where a third-country national has benefited from its rights under art. 33n, para. 3 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, registered with the Employment Agency and has not started work, the Employment Agency prepares a reasoned proposal to the Ministry of Interior for withdrawal or non-renewal of the Blue Card of the European Union. 14. Article 24 is amended as follows: Art. 24. (1) Access to the labour market with permission for continued residence for employment as a seasonal worker, for employment for a period of 90 days to 9 months within each period of 12 months shall be permitted by the Ministry of Interior after received a positive written opinion from the Executive Director of the Employment Agency without applying the condition of art. 7, para. 1, t. 1. (2) Seasonal work up to 90 days without interruption within each period of 12 months shall be registered by the Employment Agency on the basis of a declaration lodged by the employer and under conditions and in accordance with the rules of application of the law. 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) paragraph 4 is amended as follows: . (4) Access to the labour market under art. 24 shall be provided only for activities included in the list under para. Art. 1, except for the application of Art. 1 7, para. 1, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. (b) the creation of para. 5. . (5) The list under para. 1 shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Employment Agency within 7 days of its validation or its amendment or addition. 16. Article 26 shall be repealed. 17. Article 28 is amended as follows: Art. 28. (1) The seasonal worker shall be provided by the employer or provided with his assistance with appropriate and adequate compliance with all safety and health requirements until the employment contract expires. (2) In the case of a lease contract, the rental price of the dwelling under para. 1 shall be consistent with the remuneration received by the seasonal worker and the quality of the dwelling and shall not be automatically deducted from the remuneration of the seasonal worker. (3) In the case of verification of the circumstances under para. 1 The Executive Agency is entitled to access the residence of the seasonal worker with his consent. 18. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1 the words "the calendar year" shall be replaced by "the period of 12 months" and the words "the year" without applying the requirement under art. 5, para. 2s and the comma before them are deleted; (b) in para. 2 words.............................................................................. 24k, para. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the 19. Article 29a is repealed. 20. Article 31 is amended as follows: Art. 31. (1) Access to the labour market with permission for an intra-corporate transfer person shall be permitted by the Ministry of Interior after received a positive written opinion from the Executive Director of the Employment Agency without applying the condition of art. 7, para. 1, t. 1. (2) The authorisation under para. 1 gives the right to a third-country national worker, to work in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria only for an enterprise of the host group of enterprises and only for the positions of a supervisor, specialist or employee-in-trainer. 21. Article 33 is amended as follows: Art. 33. The members of the family of an intra-corporate transferee shall be entitled to work on an employment relationship and to carry out freelance activities in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period of residence of the person transferred under an intra-corporate transfer with the permission of the Executive Director of the Employment Agency for access to the labour market under this law. 22. Article 34 is amended as follows: Art. 34. In cases referred to in art. 31, para. 1 The Executive Director of the Employment Agency shall provide the Ministry of Interior with a negative written opinion where it is apparent from the documents submitted that the acceptance undertaking was created for the sole purpose of facilitating the relocation of third-country nationals for the purposes of intra-corporate transfer. 23. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35, p. 2 a comma is finally placed and added to the list, including which is derived from agreements of the European Union with third countries. 24. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36, para. 2 words.............................................................................. 24b, para. 7 and 9 shall be replaced by the following: 24b, para. 7 and 12. 25. Article 37 is amended as follows: Art. 37. The members of the family of a third-country national, a research worker, are entitled to work in employment and to carry out freelance activities in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period of residence of the researcher authorised by the Executive Director of the Employment Agency for access to the labour market under this law. 26. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38a, para. 1 words.............................................................................. 24c, para. the following point is inserted after point 27. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40 para. 3 is amended as . (3) the work under para. 1 shall be issued in accordance with Article 1. 7, para. 1, t. 3 within 30 days of the submission of the application for authorisation of access to the labour market according to a model approved by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. 28. In Article 4 (1) (b), a) Previous text becomes para. 1; (b) the creation of para. 2: (2) Refusals under para. 1 may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. 29. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 44 (b) of the (2) the freelance activity under para. 1 shall be issued in accordance with Article 1. 7, para. 1, t. 3 within 30 days of the submission of the application for authorisation of access to the labour market according to a model approved by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), a) Previous text becomes para. 1; (b) the creation of para. 2: (2) Refusals under para. 1 may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. 31. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49, para. 4 the words "up to 9 months' shall be replaced by "up to 6 months'. 32. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 50a: Art. 50a. From the rights of art. 49, para. 2, p. 1 "9" shall also be used by foreigners under art. 9, para. 1, t. 12 For the period of authorised residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. 33. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 2 words. 4 s. 10s. are replaced by s. 4s. 10s. are replaced by s. 4.6 (b) the creation of para. 3: . (3) Citizens of third countries under para. 1 are equal to the Bulgarian citizens in respect of the rights under art. 49, para. 2, p. 5, excluding family allowances and unemployment benefits where the permit is issued for employment of up to 9 months. 34. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54, para. 1, t. 2 words.............................................................................. 24, para. The following points are inserted after point 35. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 65, para. 2 the word "supposed access to the labour market' shall be replaced by the authorised access to the labour market. 36. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 75a, para. 3 words.............................................................................. 24, para. The following points are inserted 37. Paragraph 2 of the additional provisions establishes new provisions. 3 and 4: "3." Council Directive 2003/86/EC of 22 September 2003 on the right of collection of the family (OB, L 251/12 of 3 October 2003) • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 4. Council Directive 2004/81/EC of 29 April 2004 granting a residence permit to third-country nationals who have been victims of trafficking in human beings or who have been subject to assistance for illegal immigration and who cooperate with the competent authorities (OB, L 261/19 of 6 August 2004) ;.................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u87	So far, thank you. I shall open the debates referred to in paragraphs 21 to 35 with the new numbering. Mrs. Klisurska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u88	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I stand on this platform to call for your attention to what we will now accept with § 35, namely that with this § 35 we amend the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility. In particular, my appeal to you is to think about this text that you intend to change. This will be extremely unfavorable for the working Bulgarians, extremely unfavorable for the situation in which our country is located, and for the unemployment of more than 260 thousand unemployed are waiting to find work. From February last year to the present time the unemployed are more than 163 thousand people. What we do in art. 7, para. 1, t. 1 which we are currently amending is that we remove the employer's obligation to offer the job to a Bulgarian citizen first and then to seek workers from third countries. In order not to be naked, allow me to read the text of the current provision of the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility and what is changing in the texts of § 35, item. 1: "Access to the labour market of workers, third-country nationals, is permitted for the occupation of positions for which no Bulgarian citizenship is required." "What is currently removed from the Labour Migration and Labour Mobility Act" sounds like this: "In accordance with the state and development of public interests in the Bulgarian labour market after a preliminary study carried out by the employer on the labour market." Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I address the Bulgarian citizens as a signal lamp with what will happen now. What's going to happen right now concerns Mostly low-qualified workers who permanently do not work on the labour market. Eliminate the market test makes it possible in no way for them to find their work and their possibility of realization. I do not understand the arguments of importers to remove this point. 1, because if we remember, two years ago, we increased quotas for employers. We increased them to 20% and 35% respectively, by really giving employers the opportunity, but we kept this protection to first ask the Employment Agency for the people concerned who are at the employment desks to occupy these vacancies, not to open up the possibility for third-party workers to work. When I read the transcript, when this issue is debated.. regarding the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility, I am not convinced that the arguments of the two trade union organizations, which are firmly against the abolition of this protection, and what the importers argue as arguments, it does not correspond in any way with the Bulgarian interests. In this regard, I call on you: do not accept this amendment to art. 7, para. 1, t. One! Let us protect Bulgarian workers, let us not allow another erosion in Bulgarian labour law, because against the background of this unemployment and this economic crisis the elimination of the market test in no way indicates and shows us as MPs to all those Bulgarian workers who cannot find work. That is why our proposal is now: § 35 to be dropped. Please think about it and accept our offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Are there any lines on the statement you heard? I don't see anyone who wants to. Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u90	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In this bill, there are many unacceptable texts with which the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria is not in agreement and we voted against them. Here, in § 33, the Council of Ministers is overreacting from everywhere. In this paragraph, the importer makes changes to the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility, which are directly related to the single permit for residence and work, which is issued by the Ministry of Interior on the basis of art. 24th of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. This permit also contains a solution for access to the Bulgarian labour market, which is issued by the Employment Agency. To make it clear, I note that the single authorisation is granted to third-country nationals, i.e. outside the European Union, who apply for a residence permit for work at the request of a local employer. Once authorised, persons will be able to be employed within the meaning of the Labour Code by that employer who applied for this purpose to the Employment Agency. So far, in order to protect the Bulgarian labour market and the Bulgarian worker with this single permit, except that it is issued for the occupation of positions for which by law no Bulgarian citizenship is required, is also required for compliance with certain conditions for access to the labour market as defined in the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility. First of all, the condition for access to the Bulgarian labour market is to grant a single permission to the person who asks for the permission of the employer and the one who gives it to the state in order to comply with the state, development and public interests of the Bulgarian labour market. This can be done on the basis of a preliminary study of the employer's labour market, that is, the so-called market test proving in a firm way that the national labour market does not offer prepared local persons for the job in question. The employer must have carried out this study in advance on the labour market and provided evidence that he actively sought in the previous period at least 15 days before submitting the application for the employment of a foreigner within the labour market through notices in national and local mass notification means, including at the Office of the Labour Office, containing information on objective requirements for the occupation and specifics of the activity, remuneration and other social benefits. This market test is used by the Employment Agency to establish the objective inability of the employer to hire a Bulgarian citizen with the required profession, speciality and qualification, including that there is no opportunity to train the employees needed in due time. The market test is widely circumvented by employers by writing nonsense in the requirements for foreign language skills and so on. You may be surprised at the ingenuity of employers who are going to bypass the market test. Instead of paying attention to tightening the situation, the importer from the Council of Ministers, i.e. the state, is submitting to the National Assembly to vote on the substance of dropping the market test, i.e. the employer's obligation to offer jobs to the Bulgarian citizens first, without discussing and coordinating with the social partners, although such radical changes are being made concerning the labour market and labour migration. Well, what about a country like this?! How does it ensure the development and protection of the national labour market, how does it balance between the interest of the state, employers and Bulgarian workers and employees? The defence has been lifted, and if there was any logic, in so far as such a proposal could make sense at all, to propose a year and a half when unemployment was illogically low when employers were underqualified, then today such a proposal is unacceptable. When today the world, Europe and Bulgaria face a severe socio-economic crisis because of the global epidemic of COVID-19, when hundreds of thousands of Bulgarians lose their jobs, such a proposal is cynical, lobbyist, reckless and shows that the government does not give a shit about the Bulgarian worker! After the failure of the measures to protect the other unemployed Bulgarians because of the crisis and because of the ban measures of the government, the proposal is to bring down the protection of the Bulgarian labour market and to make unimpeded access to the jobs of the Bulgarians by low-paid foreign workers whose only advantage over the Bulgarians is not their qualification, but that they are less paid. This decision suppresses income growth, as the employer instead of giving a higher salary to a Bulgarian worker would prefer to hire the lower paid foreign worker. Therefore, I will not support this proposal, so our parliamentary group will not support it. [[(Comments from GERB: The time has run out! Sit down already!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u91	Your time is up, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u92	Just one sentence. I am interested in how you will vote from the United Patriarchs who say that you are defending national interest?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u93	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Are there lines? I won't. Are there any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the texts of paragraphs 23 and 24 which become 21 and 22 by the version of the Commission; the rejection of § 24; the new § 23; paragraphs 25 and 26 by importer, which become 24 and 25; § 27, which becomes 26 by the wording of the Commission; § 28, which becomes § 27 by importer; paragraphs 29 and 30, which become paragraphs 28 and 29 by the version of the Commission; new § 30; the name of the section.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. Vote 71 MPs: 68 against 2, abstention 1. Paragraphs 21 to 32 with the new numbering have been adopted. I am now voting on the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov for a new § 31, rejected by the Commission. Vote 75 MPs: 9 against 4, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the texts of paragraphs 31 and 32, which shall become paragraphs 33 and 34. They voted 73 MPs: for 70, against 3, no abstentions. Paragraphs have been adopted. I put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Georgi Gokov to drop § 33, which is rejected by the Commission. Vote 73 MPs: 13 against 50, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] Quiet, please! I shall put to the vote the text of § 33, as amended by the Commission, which shall become § 35. Vote 76 MPs: for 71, against 5, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u94	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 36. The Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes that § 35 be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in the new § 30. Proposal by the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ In the Law on Tourism (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 116 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 7 is created t. 6: It's six. The State Agency "National Security".. for all data under para. 5. 2. In para. 8 words. 2 " 5" is replaced by "the" is replaced by "the" is replaced by "the" is replaced by "the" is replaced by "the" is replaced by "the" is The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 36, which shall become § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... (1) Paragraph 1 shall apply after the entry into force of a Council decision on the implementation of the remaining provisions of the Schengen acquis relating to the Schengen Information System, the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania. (2) Paragraphs 8 "12, 15 " "22, 28, 31, § 34, p. 1 points (a) and (b) of Paragraph 35 and 36 shall enter into force from 1 June 2021. (3) Paragraph 33, t. 7 shall enter into force from 1 February 2020
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u95	Thank you. Statements on these four paragraphs? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the text of § 34, which shall become § 36 by importer; the rejection of § 35; the text of the new § 37; and § 36 by the version of the Commission which shall become § 38. Vote 74 MPs: 70 against 1, abstention 3. With the adoption of these three paragraphs, the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria has been adopted. There are only 7 minutes left as compensation for the two speeches by parliamentary groups, outside the agenda. Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Written answers for service by: - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy and Tourism Minister Mariana Nikolova on a question from the MPs Valentina Naydenova and Milko Nedyalkov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Daniel Yordanov; - Minister of Interior Hristo Terziyski on a question from the National Representative Georgi Alexandrov; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov; - Minister of Interior Hristo Terziyski on a question from the National Representative Stoyan Bozhinov; - Minister of Justice Desislava Ahladova on a question from the National Representative Yavor Bojankov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on three issues from the National Representative Yavor Bojankov; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Agriculture Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on two questions from the National Representative Rumen Georgiev; - Minister of Agriculture Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on three issues from the National Representative Rumen Georgiev; - Minister of Environment and Lead Emil Dimitrov on a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Agriculture Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Agriculture Food and Forests Desislava Taneva on a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Violeta Jeleva; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Maria Ilieva; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; - Minister of Agriculture Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Stoyanov; - Minister of Agriculture Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Agriculture Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Danka Zidarova-Lurtova; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Philip Popov. The first question is to the Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev from the National Representative Rumen Gechev on revenues in the budget from public claims from the gambling business in 2020. Mr. Gechev, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, at the beginning of 2020, the Ministry of Finance and other state institutions found that in 2015 certain companies did not pay fees and other public claims from the budget of around 700 million. lv. On this occasion, the government made legal changes and also took away licenses from companies. In this regard: what are the receipts from public claims in this specific sector of the economy in 2020; what are the forecasts of the ministry entrusted to you for the proceeds of these claims in nominal amounts and as a percentage ratio compared to 2019? The Minister of Finance personally appointed the President and the members of the State Gambling Commission after it turned out that the State Gambling Commission had failed in quotes to collect public claims for at least 700 million. lv. What organizational and personnel measures did you take at the Ministry of Finance? What responsibility have you specifically asked the representatives of the State Gambling Commission and what are the results of the closure of the State Gambling Commission and the transfer of control over the National Revenue Agency? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u97	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Gechev, when a person speaks from this platform, I think he should be correct. Today I had to do an extremely important job for the state and to come and respect you and answer your questions, I've been working all night, and you say you're playing some fins. It's not pretty and it's unethical. Please don't let it happen again. You're a professor after all. According to the provision of art. 3, para. 1 of the Gambling Act any gambling game and activity under this law in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria can be organised only with a license issued by the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency or an Executive Director by him. The information I will present to you for 2020 includes data on persons who have received a license under the Gambling Act for organizing the territory of the country of gambling and activities in production, distribution and service, and on import, distribution and service. The budget receipts from fees and taxes from the gambling sector according to preliminary reporting data for 2020 totalled 257 135 688 BGN, including taxes 127 645 383 BGN. and from fees 129 490 305 BGN. In the data on proceeds from fees for 2020 participate 2 225 002 BGN. revenue from annual contributions from the gambling organisers to comply with the Responsible Gambling Measures adopted by the European Committee for Standardization. For 2019 the budget receipts from fees and taxes from the gambling sector amount to 308 686 839 BGN, including taxes 138 165 195 BGN. and from fees 170 521 644 BGN. On the basis of this data, the percentage of revenue in 2020 compared to revenue in 2019 is 83 per cent, or a decrease of 17%, with the tax rate being 92%, or a drop of 8%, and the fees being 75%, or a drop of 25%. It should be noted that the decline in revenue from taxes and fees from the gambling sector in 2020 compared to 2019 can be explained by the changes in the Gambling Act in February 2020 and the introduction of a state monopoly regarding the organisation of momentary lottery games, resulting in the suspension of the licenses of several gambling operators. It also has an impact on the budget revenue from the gambling sector and on the country's state of emergency and the related measures to limit the spread of COVID-19. With the amendments to the Gambling Act adopted by the Forty-fourth National Assembly in July 2020, the administration of the processes and activities of licensing, servicing, control and collection of public claims under the Gambling Act passed from the closed State Gambling Commission to the National Revenue Agency as of 8 August 2020. In order to secure the necessary human resources of these activities, the state number of the NRA has been increased by 34 stats as of 1 September 2020. An action plan has been drawn up in the NRA which has led to changes in the internal regulations of the NRA, instructions and agreements for interaction with other institutions, as well as actions relating to non-finished proceedings. An analysis of the organizational and management structure, subordination, functions and powers of the structural units of the State Gambling Commission was also carried out with a view to building the capacity of the NRA for the administration of gambling. Updates to work plans, procedures, forms, functional and official characteristics and other internal NAP documents have been made in a short time. An analysis of the informational arrays, infrastructure, systems and registers of the State Gambling Commission and their passage into the NRA was also carried out. Decision of 19 August 2020 of the Governing Council of the NRA approved a new organizational and management structure of the NRA Central Governance, setting up a new Directorate for Gambling and Gambling Activities at the Central Management of the NRA as from 12 October 2020, which is directly subordinate to the Executive Director of the Agency. The newly established Directorate is directly responsible for the performance of the functions of issuing, continuing, withdrawing and suspending licences and related functions under art. 17 of the Gambling Act. The other functions replaced by that provision are allocated for implementation between existing directorates in the structure of the NRA.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u99	Get it over with, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u100	To continue after that. There's more to be said.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u101	You can do it with the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u102	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u103	Thank you. Mr. Gechev, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u104	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Ananiev, there is nothing personal, we have been working with you for a long time and we have maintained excellent collegiate relations. I want to make it clear that you owe an answer here on a Constitution, not because you owe any professor or MP. And whether you worked at night or during the day, two weeks ago I sent you the questions, you used the Constitution, you postponed completely legally. Yesterday, your people called to say you weren't coming back, and in half an hour they changed their mind. Let's be exact. So the minister, whoever he is, is bound by Constitution to come here, not by sympathy. Secondly, it is disturbing what I have heard because you have delivered rates of an 8% reduction, a 15% reduction that has two alternatives: either this restructuring is working well and suddenly gambling is working as well as last year, or new issues will arise here after the new elections. And the questions will be that most likely there are hidden speeds, as there is no way for you to withdraw the license of the main group of companies of an owner who controls most of the gambling business and to account for an 8% reduction. So here are critical revolutions and the losses are not 700 million. BGN, and they're much bigger. The question remains as to how the Bulgarian State represented by the Ministry of Economy, by the Ministry of Justice, by the Ministry of Finance, represented by the entire Council of Ministers, slept 700 million. lv. and now suddenly we remember that the NRA can be organized and collect the money it needs to collect for the benefit of the Bulgarian state. Didn't the director of the NRA, who was responsible for the methodology and quality of tax collection, represent the State Gambling Commission? What was the most important head of the NRA doing there? So many years he stood there for 15 years or how much he made in the Gambling Commission to miss, according to the government, 700 million. lv. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I finish with this: how do you look at the government that five years pays higher fees, and some selected private companies who claim to have paid 67 million. lv. A bribe to certain ministers and prime ministers paid lower taxes? I'm graduating or there's a hidden speed from last year, or these numbers aren't accurate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u105	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u106	Professor Gechev, neither of them is true to you, neither is it true to you. It's just a misguided logic of the analysis you're doing. However, I would like to conclude with the organizational changes we are making in order to create a slender organization and not to make mistakes or omissions in the work related to gambling. The Department of Gambling and Gambling Activities has accepted unfinished proceedings related to licensing activities and since the beginning of 2021 actively participated in the preparation of proposals and decisions in the administrative proceedings under the Gambling Act. The Directorate is directly involved in issuing, refusing, terminating and withdrawing licenses for the organisation of gambling, production, distribution and service licenses, as well as import, distribution and service licences for gaming equipment, and the proceedings initiated and not concluded until the entry into force of the Law are completed under the current requirements within 9 months of the entry into force of the Law, unless that period is shorter than the period laid down in the Law for ruling. The Department of Gambling and Gambling Activities is also established in the Directorate of the Central Management of the NRA, which is responsible for ensuring the correct, uniform and uniform application of tax, insurance and legislation in the field of gambling. In order to secure the new structural units, competitive selections and competitions for capacity building have been held. At present, procedures for competitive selections and competitions for the completion of the Directorate and the department with the necessary experts are ongoing. Employees are currently going through different trainings with a view to increasing their professional competence. As a result of the adopted amendments to the Gambling Act, changes to the regulations were drawn up and adopted.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Eight regulations were adopted by the Council of Ministers and one regulation issued by the Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u107	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from the MP Rumen Gechev concerning a finding of OLAF for uncollected customs duties by Bulgarian customs in particularly large sizes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u108	Mr. Chairman, colleague Minister, fellow MPs! In its letter BUDG/B3/GR1395033 of 1 March 2019, the European Commission informed the Ministry of Finance of the forthcoming verification of traditional own resources collected and administered by the customs administration of the Republic of Bulgaria. The verification was carried out in the period 14 October 2019. The common objective of the audit was to establish whether the systems and procedures applied in Bulgaria regarding customs value are in line with European Union legislation and in this regard whether the financial interests of the European Union are protected. The inspection carried out by the Directorate-General for Budget to the European Commission and OLAF staff has ended with Report No 19-26-1, which places an unsatisfactory assessment of the work of our customs authorities. In this regard: Are expert assessments true that due to irregularities identified by the European Commission, our country may be obliged to pay compensation to the European Commission of tens and hundreds of millions of euros? What specific institutional, organizational and personnel measures have you taken to bring the work of the Customs Agency to the standards of the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u109	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u110	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Gechev, in response to the specific question, I would like to emphasise that we do not know any expert assessments, including the European Commission or its structures, for tens and hundreds of millions of euros due. Moreover, there is no compensation mechanism in European Union legislation, as mentioned in the matter. At present, no opinion of the Commission has been received to establish the financial liability of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to the verification of the customs value in 2019. As you know, import duties represent a traditional own resource for the European Union budget. The correct determination of the customs value of imported goods as a basis for determining the amount of customs duties is the permanent subject of checks by the European Anti-Fraud Office OLAF, audited by the European Court of Auditors in 2017, and in the period 2018 to 2020 is also a specific subject of verification by the European Commission by traditional own resources focusing on the customs value control strategy. Such an inspection has been carried out by the European Commission on a schedule in all, at that time, 28 countries. For Bulgaria, the inspection was carried out in the period 14 October 2019 by authorised inspectors from the Directorate-General There was no representative of OLAF involved. The scope of the verification is set out in four specific objectives, united around the customs value control strategy for imports of textile products and footwear. At the final meeting on 18 October 2019, the verifier shall set out preliminary findings and make recommendations to improve control and carry out ex post checks on all goods of that nomenclature for the months January of the years 2015 to 2019, the value of which is below the threshold of 50% of the cleared average price of OLAF, and, if there are grounds for establishing additional duties. On the basis of the preliminary findings and recommendations of the final meeting, Bulgaria took the following actions in the period before the official verification report was received: An automated risk prevention system for declaring goods with reduced value through risk profiles has been introduced comparing the declared customs value with the fair prices of OLAF, using the system developed for that purpose of the Joint Research Centre of the European Commission. The Customs Agency also updated its internal guidelines on strengthening control and uniformity of practice in the verification, acceptance and challenge of the declared customs value of the imported goods. Changes were also made to the Customs Act, in force from 1 January 2020, to introduce the new mechanism, with the Minister of Finance's Order of 14 January 2020 establishing a list of high-risk goods for the financial interests of the European Union for which increased customs control is carried out.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u111	Time, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u112	I've only got a little bit left. I'm sorry. Where the goods included in the order show that the declared prices are lower than the fair prices valid for them in the European Union, the customs authorities must require security calculated on the basis of fair prices in order to ensure the collection of customs duties at their full level. As a result of the measures taken by the Bulgarian Customs Administration, one of the findings of the verification has been completed completely and the other two are partially completed. To conclude, I would like to inform you that the measures taken have been assessed by the Commission in the framework of the regular verification of traditional own resources carried out in the period 14 September 2020. The verification team confirmed the positive assessment made in the previous check on one of the objectives, on two other objectives made significant progress, and on the main objective the implementation of an appropriate customs value control strategy, an assessment of the satisfaction of the European Commission, note, which is the highest in the valuation scale used in the controls by the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u113	Mr. Gechev, line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u114	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Minister, in order not to accuse you of bias, I will read to you what is the assessment of the European Commission and, more precisely, of Mr. Andreas Schwartz in a letter he sent on 19 December 2018 to Dimitar Tsonchev, a permanent representative of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union, and he writes: "The European Commission and the European Anti-Fraud Office regularly provide the Member States with analyses, recommendations and tools to deal with fraud in imports and are sent to Bulgaria. In 2014 an operational phase of operation SNAKE was carried out. This operation applies the so-called risk threshold prices. The European Commission has asked the Member States to continue to apply these values. " Bulgaria has not applied them. Quoting: The General Directorate of the Budget of the European Commission believes that I quote...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Directorate-General for Budget found that after the Republic of Bulgaria had all the necessary information, it deliberately did not take measures to protect the financial interests of the European Union. What's he deliberately telling you? That your customs officers and associated circles have stolen from the European Union because 80 percent of the customs duties go to the European Commission. And you say there are no claims! You think Europe will simplify Bulgaria to a billion leva that went in private pockets?! This is what the director of the Directorate of Budget is saying, does not say the Bulgarian Socialist Party! So there's almost a billion of no gambling, the next five years we'll be paying another billion. This is the price of your structural reforms! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u115	Thank you. You have the right to an asshole, Mr. Secretary. [[Switching lines outside the microphones between Minister Kiril Ananiev and MP Rumen Gechev.]] Okay, you're not gonna use the back. We continue to the next issue by the National Representative Krasen Krastev on the implementation of an integrated financial information system for municipalities in Vratsa region in 2021. Here you go, Mr. Krastev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u116	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, by letter No 91-00328 of 2020 you inform the mayors of the municipalities of a contract between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Information Service. Those who should implement the product by the end of 2020 as well as those who will implement it by the end of 2021 are also defined. 91 of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 Dear Minister, in the analysis of the specific characteristics of municipalities regarding the implementation of the integrated financial information system, is it possible to provide more time for training in the new integrated system? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u117	Thank you, Mr. Krastev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Krastev, at the beginning of November in response to a parliamentary question I had the opportunity to introduce you to the advantages of the integrated financial and information system of municipalities. The main purpose of the implementation of the system is to unify and facilitate the accounting processes in all municipalities of the Republic of Bulgaria. Expectations are in the long term a large part of the specific features of municipalities to gradually disappear; to achieve equal quality in the introduction, storage and integrity of information; standardization of processes related to the management of accounting data and their aggregation and consolidation of different management levels; creation of administrative capacity with equal knowledge and skills. The contract between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Information and Information Service (SSC) for the implementation of the integrated financial information system for municipalities and related services and activities is in force from 1 October 2020, and the deadline for its implementation is 51 months. Within the first quarter of this year 31 municipalities are covered in the implementation activities of the system, including the municipalities of the district of Vratsa Borovan, Byala Slatina, Krivodol and Mezdra. To facilitate the arrangement of municipalities by years, conditional division of small, medium and large municipalities was made on a population basis. Municipalities included in this year fall within the group of small and medium-sized municipalities. Those municipalities in Vratsa district have already appointed employees authorised by the mayor of the municipality to be responsible for the implementation activities of the system. The contractor of the contract "Office Service" JSC before the implementation of the system for each specific municipality performs a detailed analysis of the accounting policy of the municipality, reflecting it by performing the necessary settings in the system. Currently, under the conditions of anti-epidemic measures, the training of employees is conducted mainly remotely, and in the future we hope that it will be possible on the ground. The training is carried out by functional modules of the system: budget, financial accounting; fixed assets and material, by providing detailed training materials. The training has created widely available videos through which each employee can undergo repeated training. In the process of operation of the system training shall also be carried out in the case of replacement of an employee In addition, for each municipality, the names of qualified employees are identified by their names, e-mail address, telephone number, mobile telephone number. At the disposal of municipalities is also a centralised e-mail address for requests for consultations, trainings, change, problems and others. To conclude, I would like to assure you that in an organised continuous process of training through the availability of video and provided training materials, on the one hand, and on the other hand, providing qualified consulting assistance for working with an integrated financial and information system for municipalities, there are the necessary conditions for the successful implementation of the system in municipalities over the next four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u119	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A line?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u120	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I am pleased with the answer provided and thank you for it. I hope everything goes well.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u121	Mr. Ananiev, I wish you good work. The next minister, who will answer the questions, is the Minister of Environment and Water, Mr. Emil Dimitrov. The issue is from the MP Erjan Ebatin and Sevim Ali concerning a change in the management plan in the protected territory of Kolokita and the construction of the Budzhaka peninsula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u122	Dear ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Recently the media reported that on the last day of the government of Ivan Kostov on 23 July 2001, the then Minister of Environment and Water Evdokiya Maneva issued an order to change the management plan of the protected territory of Kolokita, covering the entire Budjaka peninsula, allowing construction in Zone 2 of the protected territory, which was until then completely prohibited. In the information, honourable Members, it was clarified that the peninsula has been a protected area since 1970 and that in Zone 2 there are all the lands of Bujaka and in Zone 1 there are only fjords and rocks along the coast. In this regard, our question to you, Mr. Minister, is it true that on the last day of the government of Ivan Kostov on 23 July 2001, the then Minister of Environment Evdokia Maneva issued an order that changed the management plan in the protected territory of Kolokita, covering the entire Bujaka peninsula, and by this order is allowed the construction in Zone 2 of the protected territory, which was until then completely prohibited? If it is true, what reasons has changed the management plan in the protected territory of Kolokita. Is this lawful? Have damage been done to the protected area by this order to modify its plan and by authorising the construction in Area 1? Is it true that directly on the rocks in Zone 1 are the properties of the journalist from the newspaper If so, isn't that a violation of the protection zone regime? The competent authorities, in this case, have they agreed with these constructions and their implementation has not damaged the protected area, and what are the damage? Ivo Prokopiev's house directly along the rocky path leading to the bay and the beach, and respectively to the sea, and if true, have any measures been taken so far and what are they? If they are not and the MOEW has not been informed, will it refer to it as a competent institution and will it carry out a check in relation to the media publications that we inform you about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u123	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u124	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Erjan Ebattin and Mr. Sevim Ali, the protected area of Kolokita was issued by order No 1754 of 16 June 1970 of the Ministry of Forests and Forest Industry. The protected territory comprises part of the Budjaka Peninsula, with the heart part of the peninsula outside it. The order for the announcement does not allow construction to be carried out, specifying that the construction and development of the protected territory will be permitted with the development of a comprehensive public works project for this part of the Southern Black Sea coast. In this regard, with order No RD-477 of 11 July 2001 of the Minister of Environment and Water, a plan for management of the protected area is established. The said management plan introduces two functional zones: Zone 1, consisting of rock formations and fjords, no activities are allowed in this area; Zone 2 is defined as a fork area comprising restored agricultural land to owners. The zone is formed as a buffer zone 1 aimed at preventing harmful effects on remarkable rock formations. The purpose of the designation of the protected zone is to protect the fjords, the rock formations that are included in Zone 1. In this regard, the construction of fork buildings in Zone 2 cannot damage the object of conservation in the protected area. Following amendments and updates of the management plan, additional norms and parameters are introduced, which must be complied with when issuing a permit for the construction of specific sites. Zone 1 - Rock formations and fjords is exclusive state property. Construction and activities affecting the aesthetic value of land are not allowed within its boundaries. The State as owner of this area did not allow procedures for the execution of works and activities and did not carry out instrumental transactions, sale, lease and other, to legal or natural persons. In the event of the finding of bad faith and possible damage to rock formations and fjords by the Ministry of Justice, respectively RIEW Burgas, the Prosecutor's Office is immediately informed of the fact that the violations do not constitute a crime by taking the administrative and criminal measures provided for in the environmental legislation. The MoEW has no obligation and does not maintain a register of property owners, which is why the location of the premises of the buildings of Mikhail Zaimov, Yovo Nikolov and Ivo Prokopiev, to which the questions are addressed can not be determined. As I have already pointed out, in Zone 1 the rock formations and fjords are exclusive government property and construction of any buildings is not allowed. With regard to the treatment of domestic and fecal waste and water, I inform you that the majority of the buildings are connected to a main sewer collector that is responsible for waste water in the area of the sewerage network of Sozopol. For another part of the buildings, waste water is collected in waste water tanks or local treatment plants. With specialized transport, waste water from these facilities is transported to the nearest waste water treatment plants for after-treatment. Regarding the question about the pouring of fecal waters directly along the rocky path leading to the Bay of Paradise and the beach, respectively, to the sea, I inform you that on 12 February 2020 the Regional Inspectorate of Environment and Waters Burgas carried out a joint inspection with a representative of Sozopol Municipality. During the verification, no pipes shall be identified, taking household, fecal and/or atmospheric waters into the bay and along the aisle, as well as on the ski, but only the rainwaters shall be freely drained. The area is water supply and has built sewer infrastructure serving the buildings.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u125	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A line?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u126	Thank you for your answer, Minister. In the analysis carried out in the development of the Management Plan of the protected territory in 2013 and published on the website of the Ministry of Environment and Water, it is concluded that: "Presenting the intensive development of maritime tourism and the construction of hotels and villa settlements, the area is violated the quality and structure of natural habitats which are sensitive to the construction activities in the adjacent territories, and there is also damage to the coastal cliffs when building support walls and digging steps to go down to the sea coast." The analysis also noted that in the protected area there are typical natural habitats threatened at European and national level, and that a total of 15 plant species with conservation status are established, three of which are included in the Red Data Book of Bulgaria. The territory is severely damaged by the built-up areas and the built-up infrastructure, and because there are semi-damaged buildings, sheds, bungalows and abandoned constructions in the surrounding area. These are the results, Mr. Minister, of the human activity in the protected territory after the permission of construction in the territory in 2001 and non-compliance with restrictions. We will refer to the prosecution in order to carry out a full verification of the legality of the permit of construction in the protected territory.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We will insist that the appropriate responsibility be sought when establishing such a responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u127	Are you going to use a hole? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u128	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Looks like the election campaign started. "Yes, Bulgaria "...... on the beach in Rosenets. What have they accomplished? Noise, ratings and electorate. There was also a hardening of the DPS for the elections. Some showed that they were alive. The others were ready. What, though, did they fail to achieve? Access to the beach.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u129	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u130	At the moment, some people are walking in boats, and those people who owned the estate in Rosenets had prepared a place to travel. So the citizens lost, the parties won. Today, the DPS is asking me about the protected area of Kolokita: Yovo Nikolov, Prokopiev, where did they live? Why didn't you land on a boat? You fight for each other in public, you fix each other's ratings, and you campaign for free air time, where you drag me into it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u131	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u132	Please DPS, please Yes, Bulgaria and all others do not try to use MOEW for their own purposes. I haven't allowed it for a year and a few months, and I won't let it go to the end. I mean, everyone during the election, including me, has happened, we say and do a little more than usual to win votes. But please don't cross the established boundaries of tolerance, respect and respect for the rights of others. The elections will pass, and you won't talk to each other because you've gone too far in your revenge. Don't ask me to be an arbitrator, through me, to campaign or participate in a political standoff on the eve of the election. [[Reply from the People's Representative Sevim Ali.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u133	Quiet and order, please! It's a doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u134	In my personal capacity, I can tell you that you are right in this case.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u135	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u136	You're right to ask, because one of them attacked Dogan, you're now returning to those who attacked you. Show wisdom and let others be exposed! In conclusion, in the other three months, I will not allow myself as a minister to make amends to business, to parties, or to be someone's environmental bat. Everything that happened from the 70th year until now, you knew it. You didn't wait on the eve of the election to do so, but now you've decided to do so because of the election to get back at Rosenec. Don't make me be an arbiter!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u137	Is there an intruder, or is that what I want to hear?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u138	Don't make me be an ecological bat! Inform the D.A., she'll handle it. The very case that you are trying right now is involving MOEW in an election campaign, which I will not allow! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u139	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov, for your comprehensive response.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u140	You're going to publish it in Capital!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u141	Please don't call from the hall. And your line wasn't essentially about what you were going to do with the prosecution. So, like the line, like the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u142	How could it not be? You don't follow the rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u143	Next question. Again the Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Emil Dimitrov will answer the question of the National Representative Ivan Ivanov concerning a draft act for establishing an administrative infringement of the Municipal Enterprise Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u144	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and ministers, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Minister, at a previous meeting during parliamentary control, I asked you a question on which it was found that, following an inspection by experts of RIEW and Swimming Directorate on 11 January 2021, it was found that from the retrosion pool of the landfill for non-hazardous waste in the town of Shumen, there was a flood of the flooded waste water, in a rainy ditch through which the waters are taken to a ravine, which is situated in the Kamchia river. The same is qualified as an emergency situation.. was the result of an accident of the pumps. An act establishing an administrative infringement of the Municipal Enterprise was issued after multiple alerts. Because last time you didn't answer me how, why and what act was issued, I ask you this question once again. I hope you'll be correct and punctual. I ask you to answer me: on what basis, on which basis and on which law is this act for the establishment of an administrative infringement of the Municipal Enterprise
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u145	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, as they say, since 2008, this depot has been making the campaign of all election initiatives. Why wouldn't he do it this year? On 11 January 2021, an act under the Water Act was drawn up in RIEW, but not in the Municipality of Shumen, as the owner of a regional landfill for non-hazardous waste, for an established administrative infringement, for the failure to comply with a prescription given by the Eco-inspection for cleaning of the rouse of surface and purified municipal fecal waste water, by the Regional landfill for non-hazardous waste. On 23 February 2021, RIEW experts, Shumen, carried out a sudden inspection of the Regional Non-hazardous Waste Depot, where no leakage has been detected from the retrosion basin. In July 2020, the Law on Waters established the discharge of uncleaned waste water in a ravine, which was deposited in the Kamchia River, was the Act of the Municipal Enterprise. For the act drawn up by the Director of RIEW Shumen, a criminal decree of 3 thousand has been issued. BGN, which is contested. The judgment of the Criminal Court has been confirmed by a decision of the District Court of Shumen since the end of January 2021. At present, the judgment of the Court of Justice has not entered into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u147	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Ivanov, a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u148	Mr. Chairman, ladies and ministers, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Minister, people's lives and health can never be qualified as an election campaign. Your answer. It is a well-known fact that the Regional Department of Shumen has a complex authorisation under art. 117 of the Environmental Protection Act. In accordance with art. 123, p. 4 of the Environmental Protection Act, the operator of the installation is obliged to regularly inform the monitoring body of the results of the monitoring and to inform it immediately of any incidents or accidents with a significant negative environmental impact. In accordance with art. 164, para. 1 of the Environmental Protection Act for non-compliance with the requirements of art. 123c of the operator of the installation a legal person or a sole trader is imposed a penalty of 10 to 500 thousand. Mr. Minister! Why do I want to ask the controlling authority, in the case of RIEW, Shumen, that the emergency situation is well considered that of Shumen Municipality, after all, they are a party as of 11 January 2021 is not qualified as such with a significant negative environmental impact to be sanctioned by Shumen Municipality in accordance with the Environmental Protection Act after there is a certified EIA of RIEW Shumen? So many signals with the same subject leaked from the Regional depot Shumen, and his discharge in the Kamchia River! After all, in the last few months, it has qualified the emergency as having a negligible negative environmental impact and/or no negative environmental impact at all! And the act for establishing the administrative infringement is with the "Yes" and is drawn up in accordance with the Law on Waters, where the penalty is in times less between 1000 and 2000 BGN, Mr. Minister! Is anyone hiding? Does a fine save anyone? Why is it by this law, when the first time I came here, I carried pictures that the same day had expired such an infiltration?! And you claim that none were found at the time. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] You're saving between 1000 and 2000 and 10,000. And 500,000. lv.! The minimum is 10,000. lv. under the Environmental Protection Act. Who are they guarding there? Please order an inspection and this thing taken to the D.A.'s office, because otherwise we're going to make a really big scandal in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u149	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Secretary? You're not going to take advantage of your right to dodge. Thank you. Mr. Minister, except to wish you a pleasant completion of your work day and a pleasant rest! The last question from today's control is to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Mrs. Desislava Taneva. The issue is from the MPs Tsvetan Topchiev and Filip Popov "about the state of the protection dikes along the Timok river on the territory of the municipality of Bregovo from March 2018. Here you go, Mr. Topchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u150	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, in March 2018, at the beginning of the municipality of Bregovo was introduced a disaster situation in connection with the spill of the Timok River. The town of Bregovo was in imminent danger of being flooded by the waters of Timok River. That's when the safety lift did its job. There were many inspections, institutions came and found poor condition of the safety facilities. In this regard, we ask you the following question: what actions and measures has the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests taken to bring and maintain the protective dikes along the Timok River in the territory of the municipality of Bregovo in a state that satisfies and allows their purpose and functions from March 2018 to date? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u151	Thank you, Mr. Topchiev. Madam Minister, you have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u152	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Topchiev, on the grounds of art. 13, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on Waters in the territory of the municipality of Bregovo, Vidin region are drawn up acts of public state property with the provision of management rights of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests of the following sites to prevent the harmful effects of the waters: a protective dike of the Danube river in the ground of the village of Kudelin; Timok river; a right-wing protective dike in the ground of the town of Bregovo; an open drainage channel in the ground of the town of Bregovo, flowing into the river Timok; a protective dike, inside, in the ground of the town of Bregovo. On the basis of § 4 of the Transitional and Final Provisions and art. 13 of the Water Act the facilities are included in a contract and handed over for management and current support of the water irrigation systems. The company is entrusted with the public service to protect against the harmful effects of the water. Relevant actions have been taken with regard to the dikes for which your question is. In 2019 and 2021, there was a technical assignment for the award of the Draft of the above-mentioned sites, including for a new drainage system in the valley of Bregovo. There will be an award under the order of the Public Procurement Act. I would like to assure you that to date, at present, there is no danger for the population of Timok River is in its trough, Irritative systems are ready to react if needed.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u153	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Topchiev, would you like to use a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u154	Dear Minister, we asked you this question because in 2010 it was the same situation. Then Minister Naydenov announced at the hearing, even personally he was there, and said that action was taken to strengthen the dikes, extend the dikes and so on. Nothing has been done so far. There is nothing done on the field and we just don't know how long these dikes will hold up this situation, because there is a cyclicality of 5 years, there is a big spill of Timok River and thanks to the efforts of the citizens and not the irrigation systems. I would therefore like to highlight your attention to this problem, to take precautions. Let us give greater importance to prevention than when the disaster comes and then nothing can be done, and people will be looking guilty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-26.u155	Thank you, Mr. Topchiev. Would you like to use the backrest, Madam Secretary? No. Thank you very much. In my face and in Mr. Topchiev's face you have the most zealous listeners of your answers. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourned. The next meeting will take place on 4 March 2021 at 9.00 in the same room. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
