ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Colleagues, I will present to you the draft work programme of the National Assembly for 15 September 2021: "1." Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in Criminal Procedure. A general bill drawn up by the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote on 1 September 2021 with importers: Nikolay Hadjigenov and a group of MPs, 21 July 2021; Hristo Ivanov and a group of MPs, 5 August 2021; Andrey Mihailov and a group of MPs, 18 August 2021. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Tripartite Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneca, between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Kingdom of Bhutan and AstraZeneca and the Bilateral Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Bhutan. Importer (s) of the Council of Ministers on 13 August 2021. Adopted in first vote on 7 September 2021. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Tripartite Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID 19 produced by AstraZeneca, between the Republic of Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina and AstraZeneca and the Bilateral Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Importer (s) of the Council of Ministers on 27 August 2021. Adopted in first vote on 8 September 2021. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the resale of vaccines from and between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Norway on the resale of doses of vaccines to Moderna Switzerland GMBH against COVID-19. Importer (s) of the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2021. Adopted in first vote on 8 September 2021. 5. Draft Law on the ratification of a Tripartite Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria, the People's Republic of Bangladesh and AstraZeneca and a Bilateral Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria and the People's Republic of Bangladesh. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 8 September 2021 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary. Importers suppose Hristo Ivanov and a group of MPs on 21 July 2021. 7. Report on the activities of the Temporary Commission for the Investigation of Facts and Circumstances in the Use of Tear Gas, the Use of Force and Assistance from the Ministry of Interior, carried out on 10 July and 2 September 2020 against protesters citizens, as well as the investigation of facts and circumstances related to the application of special intelligence means of protesters citizens, opposition leaders and members of political parties from the opposition, and Draft Decision on the Report. Importer supposed committee, 14 September 2021 This is the Programme...... voting mode. Vote 185 MPs: 129 against 14, abstention 42. The motion is accepted. We move on to proposals for inclusion on the agenda made on the basis of art. 47, para. 3 of the Rules: First proposal made by Kostadin Angelov, Denitsa Sacheva and Tomislav Donchev. The project is allocated to the Committee on Health, the 15-day review period has not expired, there is no report and this proposal is unacceptable, which is why I will not put it to the vote. The next proposal is to include the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in criminal proceedings. The importer is Hristo Ivanov. This proposal is included in the National Assembly Programme. The next proposal is by Maya Manolova to also include the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in criminal proceedings. It's on the program. Proposal by Dimitar Delchev for inclusion in the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Law for regulation of water supply and sewerage services, No 46-154-01-12, submitted by Maya Manolova and a group of MPs. There is a report, there are three bills, so if this proposal is adopted, all three bills will be reviewed. Please, voting mode. They voted 188 MPs: for 86, against 64, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! I want a re-vote because the contents of the bill are not clear. The aim of the Bill is to stop the shock surge in the price of water by 30%, expected for 2022. I believe that this is a good deed, which on the last day of the National Assembly, we, the MPs, can end for the people. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u3	I'm going to rethink the proposal I've made. Vote 190 MPs: 98, against 52, abstention 40. The motion is accepted. We move on to the next proposal made by Nikolai Hadzhigenov for inclusion as a point in the Program of the Temporary Commission for Investigation of Facts and Circumstances in the use of tear gas included in the Program. And we move on to Maya Manolova's latest proposal for inclusion as the last point in the upcoming weekly programme of the Report of the Temporary Committee on the Prevention of Abuse and Abuse of Funds by the Council of Ministers, ministries, state authorities, state-owned enterprises, companies with more than fifty percent state and municipal participation and local authorities in the last five years, and the Draft Decision on the Report, with the importer of the Temporary Committee on Revision for the Establishment of Abuses and Disruptions in the spending of funds by the Council of Ministers, ministries, state authorities, state-owned enterprises, companies with more than fifty percent state and municipal participation and local authorities in the last five years. Please, voting mode. Vote 189 MPs: 128, against 49, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. That concludes the proposals under art. 47, para. 3. Moving on to the first item on the agenda: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PROTECTION OF PERSONS SCARED WITH REGARD TO PUNISHED PRODUCTION. GENERAL LAWPROLECTED BY THE COMMISSION ON LEGAL QUESTIONS ACCORDING TO THE REPRESENTATIONS OF FIRST VOICE ON 1 SEPTEMBER 2021, LAWS. Importers - Nikolay Hadzhigenov and a group of MPs, 21 July 2021; Hristo Ivanov and a group of MPs, 5 August 2021; Andrey Mihaylov and a group of MPs, 18 August 2021 Here you are, Mr. Hadjigenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedural proposal: the report of the Temporary Commission to be not a last item on the agenda, but before the Law on the Judiciary for obvious reasons. Since the vote on the Judicial Law, which is undoubtedly extremely important, is still at first reading, I would not want the Commission's report not to be able to pass through this House. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u5	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. You want t. 7 to become c. 6 a t. 6.................................................................. Seven? Okay. Please, voting mode. They voted 195 MPs: 99 against 59, abstention 37. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! We propose today's meeting to be broadcast on the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio. [[Relations from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u7	Mr. Svilensky, we have entered another procedure. You want to re-vote Mr. Hadjigenov's proposal? Okay. It's a rethinking regime for Mr. Hadjigenov's proposal. They voted 199 MPs: 97, against 60, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal made by Dimitar Delchev for direct transmission on BNT 1 and BNR. They voted 195 MPs: 123, against 54, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. Please direct transmission on BNT 1 and BNR. We move on to a second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection of Persons Threatened in Criminal Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Report on a joint bill of the first voting bill amending the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in Criminal Procedure submitted by the National Representative Nikolay Hadjigenov and a group of MPs. A draft amendment and supplement to the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in Criminal Procedure, submitted by the National Representative Hristo Ivanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly. A draft amendment to the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in Criminal Procedure, submitted by the National Representative Andrey Mihaylov and a group of Members of the National Assembly. Designed on grounds of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Act amending the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in connection with Criminal Procedure. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the Law be amended as follows: The Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in connection with Criminal Procedure is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in connection with Criminal Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u9	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. For speeches? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Television! I thank Mr. Delchev for the procedure so that Bulgarian citizens can understand the real purpose of this bill. This title that I am speaking about right now, Madam President, I think it is not the most appropriate one. Perhaps the title should read: the Lighting Act for some protected witnesses. Why, colleagues? This is evident from the motives, speeches and all the stories that were spoken on this bill. What is the aim, fellow Members, what is the purpose, really? I am reading a news release from 4 August: Unknown has opened fire on a protected witness in the case of Kilerite. The attack occurred early in the morning in Gorna Oryahovitsa while Nenov was in his car. The witness managed to escape. Who benefits from that? We all know. Certain criminal groups, which have protected witnesses, certain oligarchs who are hiding from Bulgarian justice, have protected witnesses in their cases. The purpose is for these witnesses to be sanctified. The goal is to shoot these witnesses. We have all heard that these origarchs who are hiding from Bulgarian justice have representatives here. Some even have lawyers who represent them in some cases. That's what this law is about, colleagues. For a small part, but the loudest part is just business, nothing personal. This afternoon, they'll be counting their fees. Enjoy the countdown, guys. For the other part, this bill is a PR bill. For the rest that support the Bill, this is a dirty order. Order against the Bureau because this Bureau is not the Attorney General's office or the prosecution's office or the court's office. This is the Bureau of Justice. The title, Madam President, can also be changed as: the law of fugitives or the law of the opium. Because it turns out that the Bill with this title is the most important law in the country. Because of him, the entire right part escaped from an unimportant topic such as the update of the NHIF budget. He ran away from the debate about money for doctors, pharmacists, sick kids. They've cleaned themselves out, colleagues, as not so modern nowadays leather loafers made of veal and pork skin. You know, renaissance such moccasins. Because the real word is insulting not that I can't call it. They ran away because they had a dirty errand. They don't care about doctors or pharmacists or sick kids. They had to run an errand for a man who, in order to pass this thing, violated the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria most times. Someone, colleagues, has to pay the political price. Otherwise, the Bureau could move him to the Agriculture Ministry. It doesn't matter at all. What do you think you're doing? What do you think you're doing with the move? Is that the most important thing in the country right now?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u11	Your time, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u12	Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u13	Thank you. For a line, Mr. Hadjigenov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll be very brief. First of all, my request is to the main part of the room. Let's not replicate this, it doesn't make any sense. Otherwise, it's nice to see how low someone can fall, not even on the ambrazor, under the ambrazor, in the defense of whom? Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u15	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. Any other lines? Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Hamid, during two discussions in the Legal Committee, you did not say because you believe that the Bureau will be destroyed or will not exist if it simply passes from the prosecution into the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice. From today's words, I am under the impression that an executive body, such as the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice, tend to increase the victimity of witnesses immensely and be, as you call them, shot. I cannot agree with that statement. On the contrary, I believe that the Bureau's functional place is precisely in the Ministry of Justice, where it was until 2014. The desire of the Attorney General to create a militaryized structure to participate in riots as witnesses, as he calls them, observers and protesters, has led people to go out into the streets. Accept that the transfer of the Bureau not to the Ministry of Agriculture but to the Ministry of Justice will restore a small injustice in the judiciary. This certainly, Mr Hamid, is not a reform of the judiciary, but it is a cross-border line that will set a clear line in the next National Assembly with which judicial reform can be made and which they want to protect the status quo. We have no doubt that the DPS and you yourself are one of those who want to keep the status quo, and in particular the Bureau to stay where it is, because you will probably need protection. I don't know. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u17	Thank you. For the third line please, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u18	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Hamid, I hope you realize that this act, though, and as Mr. Vasilev said, is not the deep judicial reform that we from We are coming! "We want it, it is symbolic because thanks to the Bureau for Protection of the Prosecutor General, the Praetorian army of the Prosecutor General in 2020 started thousands of protests, which lasted more than 120 days and because of which the Bulgarian society asked for justice. Yes, this National Assembly failed to remove Mr. Ivan Geshev from his office as Prosecutor General or persuade him to give in to the pressure of the people.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u19	How do you get it off?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u20	To step away from the position under the pressure of civil society's opinion, but... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u21	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u22	...this is an act we can make together. I hope that you, colleagues of the DPS, will stop with lines, duplicates, procedural pitfalls in order to permanently postpone, as you have done to the Commission the adoption of the Law, because you are defending the Pretorian Guard of the Attorney General, on the one hand, fighting for the properties in which the Bureau of Defense is located, to stay with the Attorney General and not to go to the Ministry of Justice. This also became very clear at a meeting of the Legal Commission, so let justice prevail.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u23	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Hamid, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u24	Dear Mr. Delchev, you have no right to forbid Members of the National Assembly to speak, to make lines and duplicates. I didn't understand that at all. With regard to the protests, we proposed that the functions, those functions that are not inherent in the Bureau, should be dropped, the Bureau should remain where it should be, but as a security unit, not have the right to detention, search and so on. I've made that offer. By the way, it is supported by the Commission. I hope it will also be supported in this House. We are not defenders of a figure or a certain group of figures. We want the law to be respected, we want there to be lasting legislation, not to change every year, to transfer one Bureau from one place to another. Mr. Vassilev, we do have a Minister of Justice right now who I'm sure will not allow anything to happen to these witnesses. We all know and the kids in the neighborhood are already talking about him becoming a constitutional judge. Can you imagine the Minister of Justice coming with another profile not of the esteemed Mr. Stoilov?! See, for example, a power minister who beats the Law every day, especially in an election campaign. What will happen in the period of relocation? The Justice Department said they needed at least four months. We have three bets on the bill. In these four months, how many witnesses will be shot? Mr. Hadjigenov, although I have not named you by name, you have indeed come out and identified yourself as one of the defenders of those fugitives of the Law who are hiding in other countries and who are most likely to have been included in the Law at a meeting of one of the Commissions yesterday. I don't know if there's one more line to tell you that you're that MP, too. Mr. Atanasov raised the subject yesterday, by the way, honor him. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u25	Thank you. For other speeches please come in, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u26	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! This National Assembly had to reform the judiciary. This National Assembly was supposed to close down the special court. This National Assembly was to adopt amendments to the Constitution. None of this happened. The only thing we can do today and make it confident that we do it in the protection of the rule of law is to close the Bureau of Defense to the Attorney General and transfer it to the Ministry of Justice where it is his natural institutional place. This will respond not only to public expectations, it will guarantee constitutional exercise of power. We all know the case that lies before the Constitutional Court, precisely with regard to the constitutional function and doubts about the unconstitutionality of the current structure of the Bureau. What we do know is that when the Bureau is in the executive power, there will be accountability, there will be transparency in its actions in terms of the resource used. What we also know is that we will not be faced with the hypothesis we saw last week. While the Attorney General was talking about the independence of the judiciary, he was chatting with P.R. Sevi Boyko in real time. Is this the independence of the Attorney General that guarantees witness protection? True, we all have an answer to that question. "Democratic Bulgaria" will not make many speeches today because the goal is to pass the Bureau and not to practice in parliamentary eloquence. So let us do our job in the remaining final hours of this National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u27	Thank you. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Slavov, in your statement, you quoted: "Protection of the rule of law and reform of the judicial system. "I ask you and my reply to you is: Is reform of the judiciary being done for a month without government, without governance and without political responsibility? Do you have a majority in the National Assembly? Yes, you have shown that you have for the adoption of this bill, but is this the reform of the judiciary? Is this your view and understanding of the rule of law?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Second dot? Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u30	Dear Mr. Slavov, I am concerned that we did not really manage to make a serious judicial reform. Regarding Mrs. Alexandrova's statement about the majority, I take an idea from her and make a line for you. Mr. Slavov, as long as we have no votes, we cannot dream, unfortunately, I hope we have enough votes to dream of the Bulgarian people for real judicial reform. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u31	Thank you. Third line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Colleague Slavov, with deep respect for your professional qualities. Do you remember, if not, I will remind you of what your leader Hristo Ivanov said from this tribune in his first declaration from the opening of the 46th National Assembly? Then, for the first time, by the way, and it was right, Mr. Ivanov said that in connection with the judicial reform and with what is to come, "Democratic Bulgaria" will seek dialogue every single political party in this Parliament. You didn't turn off GERB then, did you, Mr. Ivanov? That's right. We are already at the end of this unfortunate National Assembly and I do not recall actually, Mr. Ivanov, Mr. Slavov, have you ever sought the GERB group to seek any long-term solution in connection with judicial reform? I'll tell you why. Because, colleagues, judicial reform, if we want not to be just populists, and to talk nicely from the stands, so that we like our constituents, if we want something meaningful to do in this direction, here you don't even need and can't accept judicial reform with a minority. You cannot accept judicial reform even by a simple majority. If we want to do something long-term, it has to be much wider, come not consensus, but with much wider parliamentary support, so that we can ensure, Mr. Slavov, that whoever comes from here on will still have some sustainability. In fact, we haven't had a debate on the subject in these two months. An apology for the fact that there was a Legal Commission, and so on, it's not serious. From the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS, I guarantee that we have never actually participated in the realization of this to make such a long-term reform, that is the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u33	Thank you. A hole? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u34	Colleagues from GERB, you had the chance to make a deep judicial reform in 2015. We saw what happened then. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] The judicial reform is not just due, it is due to the Bulgarian citizens. There will be judicial reform if Bulgaria wants to stay in the European Union. Judicial reform will be available if Bulgaria wants to take from European aid funds of 15 billion. lv. The only basic requirement for this support of the European Union to go to Bulgaria is to carry out judicial reform, to have the rule of law. At the beginning of this meeting, Democratic Bulgaria announced that it would seek support for constitutional changes and informal talks were held. Yes, it did not come to formal discussions for the simple reason that this Parliament clearly proved to be with a very short term. Constitutional reform cannot really be done by just a few political forces. There must be a great agreement and this is the responsibility of us as representatives in this and some of us probably in the next parliament to seek this agreement on the key priorities of the state. At the same time, let us not turn a blind eye to those problems that are part of our justice that continue to hinder our path as effective members of the European Union. Some of these problems are really related to the status and role of the Prosecutor General, some of these problems are related to the role of specialized justice and the way decisions are made in the Supreme Judicial Council. If we don't get justice back, we can dream of high economic growth, we can dream of foreign investment, but we won't get it. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u35	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Mr. Enchev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u36	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm going out on this stand to finish a fairy tale Mr. Philip Stanev started about the naked truth. For the naked truth, I will first thank the President of the Legal Commission. Unfortunately, for me, this chairman was Mr. Hristo Ivanov. He called the Legal Commission when he found it good morning, noon, evening, night, on holiday. [[Radio in DPS and GERB-SDS]] , in the big recess. Whenever she had the opportunity to be called, she was accustomed to one single goal of punishing the Attorney General, no matter what his name was, it didn't matter. It starts with simple things. It takes him the Witness Protection Bureau to, whether his institutional place is there, it is irrelevant. It takes away, the specialized court, the special prosecutor's office are being held. Why are they shutting down? So that this man, whoever he is, knows the Attorney General and remembers if he's not chosen by the right people, there's no way he can survive and do his job. That's the naked truth, Mr. Stanev, that's what we do. We used to get used to all kinds of committees, at any time of the day, to finish a showy thing that was supposed to happen, and it must be remembered from now on "everyone who will sit in this chair must know that this is what awaits it. If he's not chosen by the right people, he can't live peacefully. That's the naked truth. And when you were looking for the clothes that were hidden there, the front row was hidden. They are hidden by an oligarchic NGO, a media society. It is! You did your penal action, and today we're voting on it. That's the naked truth, guys. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u37	Thank you. For a replica, Philip Stanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u38	Mr. Enchev, the naked truth was seen by the entire Bulgarian people in both the 45th National Assembly and in the 46th National Assembly. Stop hiding behind metaphors, parliamentary wits and procedures. The naked truth is that a very large part of these lawmakers in this Chamber, who are currently standing, are trying to keep this strange Bureau and this strange chief prosecutor. The naked truth, do you know what it is? As a person, I am ashamed to stand with you in this Chamber and if they are not, and if they are not people who, who are real, honest, moral, as is the President of the National Assembly, a professional, constitutionalist, as are most people in the Legal Commission, as is Mr. Hadjigenov, as are the Democrats, you are a disgrace...................................................................................... [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] [[noise and lines]] [[noise and lines from GERB-SDS and DPS]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u39	Mr. Stanev, Mr. Stanev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u40	...to know the shame of being in this room and now I'm getting out of here. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u41	Second line, Mr. Hadjigenov, come in. [[The National Representative Mika Zaykova is going to the stands.]] Mrs. Zaykova, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, today I will try to be as brief as possible. Judging from the screaming given by a certain parliamentary group, it seems Delyan Slavchev Peevski will become a protected witness against Boyko Borisov. I have no other reasonable explanation. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u43	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. And for the third line, please, Mrs. Zaykova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u44	Dear colleagues! It matters what the Attorney General's name is, because two years in the square people wanted his resignation. That's why it matters what the Attorney General's name is. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u45	Thank you. For the back, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u46	Colleagues, this is clearly your way of acting. You go out, you say something, and then you go out, and you don't want to hear what they have to say to you. I'm not ashamed of anything. I've walked through my conscious path fair and square with my head held high. I'm glad to be in this parliament. I've been walking here a long time. I hope to stay here from now on, because I feel useful and know that what I do, I do with my great heart in the name of my parents, my ancestors, all the movement for rights and freedoms, and the thousands of people who voted for us. That's the naked truth, guys! We're slapping a prosecutor in the head of the Republic. That's all I have to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u47	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u48	Thank you, Madam President. This debate, which started now on the title of the Bill, the time and its place was at first reading. I don't know what we're debating. Or just making speeches to waste time. I have something important to say, and I will finally make an offer. What are we talking about in general today? In accordance with art. 105, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of the Council of Ministers provides public order and national security, and implements the general management of the state administration and the armed forces. This is the constitutional text which gives rise to powers of the executive power to be able to create and manage structures that can apply force and aid. There is a division of the authorities of the other authorities, as is the legislative and as is the judiciary, do not have such powers as are written in the Constitution. I don't want to read you here the powers of the prosecution in the head of the judiciary, there are no such powers. And that is why it is quite reasonable to adopt a law to introduce the constitutional principle. That's what it's all about, otherwise everything else is just talk and waste of time. And I, Madam President, ask you to put an end to the debate on the title and to proceed to the texts as read and adopted texts at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u49	So you're making a procedural proposal to end the name debate?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u50	Yeah, that's right. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u51	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. I put to the vote the procedural proposal to end the debate on the name of the Law. 140 MPs voted: 121, against 16, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the name of the Commission's version of the Law. Vote 148 MPs: 127, against 20, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u52	................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced "1." In para. 2 the words of the Prosecutor General shall be replaced...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u53	Option I don't read it. Go to the next one, he's supported in principle. Read the Commission's sanction option I.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u54	The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for Option I. Option II: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced "1." In para. 2 the words "the act of the Prosecutor General" shall be replaced by "the act of the Head of the Security Bureau." 2. Alinea 8 is canceled. The Commission does not support the text of the importer under the so-read version II. The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for option III. The Commission shall propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced "1." In para. 2 the words "the chief prosecutor" shall be replaced by "the minister of justice." 2. In para. The order by the Prosecutor General shall be replaced by the act of the Minister of Justice. 3. In para. 8 the words "The Chief Prosecutor" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Justice."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u55	Thank you. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u56	Thank you, Madam President. I am very afraid to say it, by the way, because, first of all, Mr. Delchev banned any lines, duplicates and speeches, my esteemed Mr. Atanasov and directly ended the debate. However, I am still in the title to speak and there have been threats from the oligarch's lawyers. One of them directly threatened me that I might need protection, so I refuse to speak from now on, Madam President. [[Applause from ICN and IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u57	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. We're closing the debate. Vote option II for § 1, not supported by the Commission. They voted 136 MPs: for 2, against 10, abstention 124. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on § 1 in the version of the Commission. Vote 139 MPs: 127 against 7, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u58	Madam President, § 2. The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for Option I. Option II: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 7 the words "the Chief Prosecutor" shall be replaced by the Head Prosecutor of the Protection Bureau. The Commission does not support the version of the importer for option II. Option III: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 7 the words "the Defence Service," the Prosecutor General, shall be replaced by "the Protection Service" and after a decision of the Council of Protection, taken by a majority of 2/3 of its members, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Justice. The Commission does not support the version of the importer for option III. The Commission proposes the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. 1, t. 4 shall be added at the end, or for the execution of the detention measure. 2. In para. 2, p. 4 shall be added at the end, or for the execution of the detention measure. 3. In para. 7 the words "the chief prosecutor" shall be replaced by "the minister of justice."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u59	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. We are going to vote on option II of § 2 not supported by the Commission. They voted 141 MPs: 2 against 14, 125 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We move on to option III of § 2, unsupported by the Commission. They voted 133 MPs: 1 against 10, abstention 122. The offer is not accepted. We move on to option II in the version of the Commission. They voted 132 MPs: 129, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u60	Option I under § 3. The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for Option I. The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for option II. The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for option III. The Commission shall propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13 the following "1." In para. 1 the words "the chief prosecutor" shall be replaced by "the minister of justice." 2. In para. 2 the words "the chief prosecutor" shall be replaced by "the minister of justice." 3. In para. 4 the words "the judiciary" shall be replaced by "the justice department." 4. In para. 5 the words "the judicial authority" shall be replaced by "the justice department."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u61	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 3 in the version of the Commission. 130 MPs voted: 129 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u62	Option I for § 4. The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for Option I. Option II: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13a, para. 2, p. 1 the words "the Chief Prosecutor" shall be replaced by the Head Prosecutor of the Protection Bureau. The Commission does not support the version of the importer for option II. The Commission proposes the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13a The following "1." In para. 1 the words "the representing Supreme Judicial Council" shall be deleted. 2. In para. 2 t. 1 the words "the chief prosecutor" shall be replaced by "the minister of justice."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u63	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote option II, not supported by the Commission. They voted 130 MPs: 1 against 8, abstention 121. The offer is not accepted. We move on to § 4 in the version of the Commission. They voted 129 MPs: for 129, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u64	With regard to option I of § 5. The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for Option I. Option II: .................................................................................. Article 14 is amended as follows: Art. 14. (1) The Bureau of Protection shall be a specialized department of the General Directorate of Security at the Ministry of Justice. The Head of the Security Bureau is the Director-General of the Security Directorate-General. (2) In the implementation of the decision of the Protection Council for inclusion in the Protection Programme, the Bureau of Protection shall: 1. inform the endangered person of the possibilities of the Protection Program; 2. conclude an agreement with the endangered person for inclusion in the Protection Programme, notified to the prosecutor or the Judge-Rapporteur who made the proposal for protection; 3. designate a liaison officer with the protected person; 4. implement by means of a security team specially formed for the case, the specific measures of the Protection Programme on the basis of the agreement concluded. (3) The Bureau of Protection shall build, maintain and store a database for the persons included in the Protection Program in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. (4) The Bureau of Protection shall not disclose the information which it is aware of in connection with the implementation of the Protection Programme. (5) When implementing the Protection Programme, the Bureau of Defense may request assistance from all competent state authorities which cannot be refused. (6) The Bureau of Protection shall be accountable periodically to the President of the Protection Council for the funds spent under the application of the Protection Programme, in general and in each case. (7) In the implementation of the Protection Programme, the employees of the Bureau of Protection shall have the powers under art. 393, para. 1 of the Law on the Judiciary. (8) The Minister of Justice shall issue internal rules on the terms and conditions for the appointment of the staff of the Bureau of Protection. The Commission does not support the version of the importer for option II. Option III. The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for option III. Proposal from MP Hamid Hamid Hamid. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by "1." Alinei 1 and 2 are amended as follows: . (1) The Bureau of Protection is an independent organizational structure of the Office for the Protection of Threatened Persons at the Minister of Justice. The Bureau of Protection is a legal person with a seat in Sofia. The Minister of Justice shall appoint the Head of the Bureau of Defence and its staff in a manner and manner defined by the Rules of Law Enforcement. (2) The activities of the Protection Bureau shall be carried out under the authority of a Head whose powers shall be determined by this Law and by the Rules of Law Enforcement. 2. In para. 3 t. 2, 3 and 4 are canceled. 3. In para. 5 the words "with the permission of the Prosecutor General" shall be replaced by "after a decision of the Protection Council taken by a majority of 2/3 of its members." 4. In para. The Supreme Judicial Council is replaced by the Minister of Justice and is replaced by the Supreme Judicial Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u65	Thank you. For speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, I am making a procedural proposal for an editorial amendment to the just reported paragraph, namely concerning para. 7. I'll tell you what it's about. It's related to the Bureau of Defense's report to the Supreme Judicial Council. The proposal is for the Bureau of Defense to make its report to the Supreme Judicial Council in this text, and at this point the proposal is to make it to the Minister of Justice. I think that the Minister of Justice, with all the rights granted to him by the Law and the previous paragraphs which he has adopted, except that he will appoint a director, will justify his proposals with regard to the protected persons, I do not need to accept this report, but it is right for the Supreme Judicial Council to do so. Thus, I believe that the power requirement will be met because, apart from the fact that the Minister of Justice performs all other functions, it should not, in my opinion, accept these reports. I believe that the Supreme Judicial Council should remain the body to adopt these reports. For this reason, I am proposing an editorial change to the words of the Minister of Justice and to remain the words of the Supreme Judicial Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u67	So let's vote separately. Four sooner?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u68	That's right, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u69	Okay, thank you. Any other speeches? - What's the line? Come in for a cue, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u70	Thank you. Ms. Atanasova, after transferring the powers of management of this activity to the Minister of Justice, this means that parliamentary control can be exercised over the activity. And if you want to keep the report before the Supreme Judicial Council, we can't call the Supreme Judicial Council here to exercise parliamentary control. So I think this proposal is untenable and we will not support it, of course. Thank you. [[Applause from DB and IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u71	Thank you. For other lines? I can't see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Atanasov, you are well aware that the Supreme Judicial Council presents reports to the National Assembly every year. And that the National Assembly exercises parliamentary control of the Minister of Justice is an inalienable fact according to our Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in whichever Legislature it is. And this has nothing to do with parliamentary control and with the control that the Supreme Judicial Council will carry out. After all, the Bureau of Defense participates, and the Minister of Justice always presides over the Supreme Judicial Council, Mr. Atanasov. In this sense, it will also have information regarding the activities of the Bureau of Protection and at any time it can be controlled. I believe that your concerns are by no means based on any legal logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u73	Thank you. For speeches? Mr. Hamid, come in. [[Replyes: Finally, bravo!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u74	Of course, if Mr. Delchev allows it, then I'll speak, otherwise I can't. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, my proposal on this paragraph is to drop points 2 and 3. I thank all the Members of the Commission who supported this proposal. I'm asking you to, too. 4 to vote and stay. Point 4 is important, colleagues, under point 4. 4 will be guarded by all magistrates of the Bureau. This isn't about the Attorney General. In fact, my proposal to drop points 2 and 3 solves the whole problem Mr. Slavov spoke of about the functions and those powers on which there may be a possible constitutional problem. Decides entirely what Mr. Delchev is talking about before he forbids me to speak. I mean, what caused these protests, I've found an option, I've found a solution to cut those powers. And why don't you go out and say that I'm defending the Attorney General?! We don't defend the Attorney General, we protect the law, the law of the state. In fact, with my offer that you've all supported, I've cut 90% of the powers of this desk. This desk turns completely with security features and nothing more. Therefore, the Bureau could have remained with both the Attorney General and the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Agriculture. It's another matter, colleagues, for these ministers. Today these OPGs have MPs, lawyers, imagine that tomorrow they will have a minister, God forbid. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u75	Thank you. For lines? Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u76	Mr. Hamid, in the Commission, you have proposed things that others have thought are right.... to really have the Bureau cut rights, which are extremely harmful at the moment. And you suggested it because you know that the Bureau will no longer be with the Attorney General. If you had the same thought in the head in the front parliaments, you would have suggested it then. But unlike you, we believe that the Bureau must perform the functions it must perform, and yes, it will not be under the authority of the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u77	Thank you. Mr. Slavov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u78	Madam President, colleagues! The question is actually this: will the Bureau be a specialized structure solely for witness protection, or will we allow it to remain some kind of hybrid between witness protection and the protection of magistrates? On the proposal supported by the Commission, the Bureau is only a Bureau for the Protection of Witnesses and persons in danger of criminal proceedings, and all security functions in respect of magistrates, judges, prosecutors and investigators are returned to the General Directorate of Security, where they belong and where judges have been guarded and prosecutors and investigators have been brought to the Bureau in the case of chief prosecutors. We want the Security Directorate General to take over the security of all magistrates to have no separation between magistrates and the Defense Bureau to protect only witnesses. I therefore ask you to support the version proposed by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u79	Thank you. For the third line, Mr. Babikan.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! My line relates to Mr. Hamid's perfectly well-founded concerns about the fact that, in addition to lawmakers representing the mafia or his views sponsored or defending their interests, it can lead to even greater tensions in the system and the mafia gaining a minister if I have understood correctly what we were talking about a moment ago. It's part of the thesis that if the shopkeeper changes, the store closes that we've been listening to since morning. If Mr. Hamid's logic was accepted as valid by the National Assembly, then in the past 12 years Prime Minister Boyko Borisov had to be deprived of the entire Ministry of Interior. [[Applause from IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u81	Thank you, Mr. Babikan. It's for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u82	Thank you, Madam President. With Mr. Delchev's permission, I'm taking the back. Is that okay, Mr. Delchev? I tried to return the debate essentially to the paragraph on which it was proposed, not to talk about what thoughts were in my head before, or what Boyko Borisov should be deprived of. Boyko Borisov is already deprived of everything, so do not transfer the ball to Boyko Borisov. I have expressed any concerns about what went on yesterday in the Commission "Magnitski". A very legitimate question has been raised: why is it suppressed, why is the movement of a request for information for a possible MP or possible MP sponsored by persons included in the list of persons being sponsored by Magnetski? That question has been raised. And if MPs are so easily financed abroad, I expressed concern that eventually one day they might have a minister. Despite the threats from Mr. Yordanov's group that I will most likely need protection, I will turn to Hadjigenov to protect me, so he will help me. [[Replication by MP Nikolai Hadzhigenov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u83	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. For a personal explanation, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u84	Madam President, honourable Members! I asked for a personal explanation because Mr. Hamid mentioned me several times in his speech, both in his lines and in his coats.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u85	Out of respect.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u86	Mr. Hamid, I respect you very much, too. I've seen you on the Legal Commission, I know you're not a timid person, and especially I know that when behind you and your party weighs the shadow of Mr. Geshev, there's no way I'm just here from my place to scare you. So don't be scared, talk, but please get to the point. Because all the deviances and accusations with oligarchs, mafia, lawyers, that's not consistent. These are charges against you, which you are trying to transfer from the sick to the healthy head. You are an expert, focus, please. This is not a ban, this is a request: focus on the expert debate and realize that the Bureau of Defense has the powers that they do not give them the right to enter the Presidency, arrest people. [[Relations of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u87	Thank you, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u88	They just abuse their powers and that's the big problem, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u89	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. [[Relations from DPS and GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u90	So don't manipulate public opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u91	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u92	The way you're holding it, I expected it. [[Comments from GERB-SDS and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u93	Thank you. Madam President, it's perfectly natural to expect it because Mr. Delchev didn't understand, I didn't say he threatened me. I was threatened by Mr. Vassilev from here. All the MPs heard him and threatened me that I would need a possible defense. I have no contempt for you except for your ban on all MPs from taking lines and duplicates and not doing such things. I think Mr. Atanasov's approach is much better. Procedure suppose the debate and vote. That's it. By the way, it was only my speech here on this stand that was essentially... under points 2 and 3, and I asked for section 4 to be voted separately. The others moved the debate and I had to answer, no way!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u94	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u95	Dear Madam President, as a matter of fact, I am returning to § 5, para. 3, p. 2 and 3, which Mr. Hamid said he offered to drop out, and so on. 4 to be voted separately. It wasn't just his suggestion, it was an importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u96	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u97	So it's the Bill of..there's such a people....it's not Mr Hamid's idea. [[Laughter loudly from ISN.]] He must have read it to us. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u98	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. For lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mrs. Manolova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u99	My fellow Members, the problem with the existence of the Security Bureau of the Attorney General is constitutional.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u100	Protection, not security.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u101	For security and protection. This problem is not simply functional with the provision of police functions to this desk, as enforcement functions and other police functions are functions of the executive. The problem here is also with art. 126, para. 1 of the Constitution, which regulates the structure of the prosecution and from which it follows that the place of bodies performing police functions and functions defined by art. 105, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Council of Ministers should be implemented by executive bodies. In fact, this also answers Mrs. Atanasova's proposal for the report to be presented to the Supreme Judicial Council. There is no way for parliament to exercise parliamentary control over the judiciary's government over the judiciary's executive body and thus, if this proposal is adopted, the lack of control in the work of this bureau will in practice remain. Here the problem is not only about the personalities of the Minister of Justice and the Attorney General, although the Bureau in the hands of this Prosecutor General has also been turned into an authority for repression, a reference to the invasion of the Presidency last summer. However, since changes in legislation must have a lasting character, the stay of this desk, including the presentation of his report to the judiciary government, will practically not complete the change we are making. It is only right that bodies performing executive functions should be controlled by parliament in the function of Parliamentary Control. So the proposed solution is the good solution. Otherwise, we risk that there will be problems and control in the work of this unit in the head of the prosecution, of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u102	Thank you. For lines? Mrs. Atanasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Manolova, I wonder how to call your statement amnesia, political schizophrenia or goonsurate? Why? Because, Mrs. Manolova, on 29 January 2014, the same law was passed concerning the Bureau for the Protection of Persons Threatened in Criminal Procedure, and not about the Guard, as you claim in the vote, Mrs. Manolova, then you are Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Parliamentary Group of BSP. Not only here in plenary, but also in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here, Mrs. Manolova, how everyone voted. . [[Shows printout]] And strangely at the moment this, by the way, applies to the entire parliamentary group of BSP then during the office of Oresharski BSP, DPS and Attack, support the Office for Protection by the Ministry of Justice to be transferred to submission of the Attorney General. Now, Mrs. Manolova, you're making an exact opposite statement. Is it not time to identify yourself, or is it of great importance when you are in the state, whether you are under the fist and your main goal is to protect the president, or are you part of a parliamentary group, and are you Vice-President of Parliament? Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. For a second line? I can't see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u105	Dear Mrs. Atanasova, you are conveniently overlooking changes in the functions of this desk, which really has become a Bureau of Witness Protection, including the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u106	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u107	Follow the changes in which you personally and the parliamentary group of GERB have participated to get to the current situation in which we have a paramilitary military structure. [[Replications from the MPs Desislava Atanasova and Anna Alexandrova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u108	Please, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u109	Paramilitary structure. This is the result of ongoing changes conducted on the initiative mainly by the parliamentary group of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u110	I know it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u111	Follow the changes in this law how a desk that has to protect endangered witnesses becomes a paramilitary structure that mainly protects the Attorney General and a paramilitary structure that acquires functions...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u112	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u113	...by security, by forced witnessing. After all, legislation must be changed according to expectations and errors must be corrected. So pay attention to your changes in the work of this desk and realize what it really has become! In a tool for fighting, in a pressure tool, in a tool for serving certain objectives, including against the rights of Bulgarian citizens, a body that ignores the separation of authorities, which can perform executive functions, police functions, functions of the judiciary, as the prosecution is in the judiciary and which, to top all this, is controlled by the Prosecutor General. So there's no doubt here that...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u114	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u115	...legal changes must be made in order to correct a breach of the Constitution. [[Relations from the National Representative Anna Alexandrova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate, moving on to the vote. We are voting option II of § 5, not supported by the Commission. They voted 121 MPs: for no, against 13, abstention 108. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u117	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u118	I'm re-voting option II, unsupported by the Commission. They voted 125 MPs: for no, against 11, abstention 114. The offer is not accepted. We are now going to vote on a proposal made by Desislava Atanasova to drop the item. 4 - Changes in para. 7, in the version of the Commission. Please, voting mode. Vote 174 MPs: 48 against 124 abstentions 2. The offer is not accepted. We are now going to vote on a proposal made by Hamid Hamid in point. 2 in the version of the Commission, p. Four down. They voted 173 MPs: 46 against 76, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting § 5 in the version of the Commission. Vote 126 MPs: 124 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mr. Mikhailov, come in for § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u119	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u120	Are there any speakers? There aren't any. I shall put to the vote § 6 by text of the importer. They voted 127 MPs: for 127, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u121	Option I: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14 in the words "the Chief Prosecutor" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Justice." "The Chief Prosecutor" shall be replaced by The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for Option I. The Commission does not support the version of the importer for option II. The Commission shall propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14 in the words "the Chief Prosecutor' shall be replaced by "the Minister of Justice' and shall be adopted after a decision of the Council of Protection, taken by a majority of 2/3 of its members. The Commission does not, in principle, support the version of the importer for option III. The Commission shall propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... Article 14c is amended as follows: Art. 14c. The Rules of Procedure of the Protection Bureau shall be laid down by the Minister of Justice. The structure of the Bureau of Protection shall be determined by the rules of application of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u122	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote option II of § 7, not supported by the Commission. Vote 128 MPs: 2 against 11 abstentions 115. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote option III of § 7, not supported by the Commission. They voted 130 MPs: for 2, against 14, abstention 114. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on § 7 in the version of the Commission. Please, voting mode. Vote 128 MPs: for 128, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u123	Option I: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. In para. 3 the words "The Chief Prosecutor" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Justice." 2. In para. 4 the words "the Chief Prosecutor" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Justice." 3. In para. 5 all over the words the Chief Prosecutor is replaced by the Minister of Justice. The Commission does not support the version of option I importer. ................................................................................... Article 14e is repealed. The Commission does not support the version of the importer for option II. The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for option III. The Commission proposes the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. Alinea 3 is canceled. 2. In para. 4 words are replaced by the Rules for Law Enforcement by the Prosecutor General. 3. In para. 5 words are deleted in the case of the Prosecutor General and the words with the act of the Prosecutor General shall be replaced by the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u124	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote option I of § 8, not supported by the Commission. They voted 131 MPs: for 2, against 11, abstention 118. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on option II of § 8, not supported by the Commission. They voted 129 MPs: 1 against 11, 117 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on § 8 in the version of the Commission. They voted 129 MPs: for 129, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u125	The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for Option I. Option II: ..................................................... Article 15 is amended as Art. 15. (1) Inclusion in the Protection Program shall be carried out on a proposal from the District Prosecutor and in the judicial proceedings by the Judge-Rapporteur to the Protection Board. (2) The offer of protection shall be made by official means or at the request of: 1. the endangered person; 2. the investigating authority; 3. the monitoring prosecutor; 4. the head of the prison for convicted persons. (3) In the cases under para. 2, p. 2, 3 and 4 the explicit written consent of the endangered person is also necessary. (4) The District Prosecutor or the Judge-Rapporteur shall examine the request within three days of receipt of the request and submit a reasoned proposal to the Council for inclusion in the Protection Programme or refuse to submit a proposal. (5) Refusal of the Prosecutor or Judge-Rapporteur under para. 4 shall not be subject to appeal. The Commission does not support the version of the importer for option II. The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for option III. The Commission proposes the following version of § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15 the 1. In para. 1 the words "the chief prosecutor" shall be replaced by "the minister of justice." 2. Alinei 4 and 5 are amended as follows: . (4) Where no official decision is given, the District Attorney or the Court shall examine the request immediately after receipt of the request and submit a reasoned proposal to the Minister of Justice. (5) The refusal of the prosecutor or the court under para. 4 may be appealed to the higher court within 7 days. The decision on the complaint is final.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u126	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote option II of § 9, not supported by the Commission. They voted 129 MPs: for 2, against 11, abstention 116. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on § 9 in the version of the Commission. 130 MPs voted: 130, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u127	Option I: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16 para. 3 is The Commission does not support the version of the importer for option I. The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for option II. The Commission proposes the following version of § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3 words are replaced by the Minister of Justice and the word "Secretary of Justice" is replaced by "Secretary of Justice."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u128	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote option I of § 10, not supported by the Commission. Vote 128 MPs: 1 against 11 abstention 116. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 10 in the version of the Commission. Vote 128 MPs: for 128, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u129	The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for option I of § 11. By option II: ..................................................... Article 16a is repealed. The Commission does not support the version of the importer for option II. The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for option III. Proposal of the National Representative Radostin Vassilev, made according to the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall propose the following version of § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16a The following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: (1) The Minister of Justice shall not grant or provide prior protection by means of an act which shall be sent to the Bureau of Protection for the implementation and preparation of an opinion on the necessity and possibility of inclusion in the Protection Programme. The act providing prior protection shall be final. 2. In para. 2 the words "the issued claim' shall be replaced by "the issued act' under para. 1.................................................................................. 3. Alinea 3 is canceled. 4. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: . (4) When the Minister of Justice finds that the conditions for prior protection are not available, the proposal together with the written opinion of the Bureau of Protection shall be sent immediately to the Council of Defence for a ruling.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u130	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote option II for § 11, not supported by the Commission. They voted 132 MPs: 1 against 11 abstention 120. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting § 11 in the version of the Commission. They voted 133 MPs: 133, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u131	The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for option I of § 12. By option II: ................................................................................... Article 166 is repealed. The Commission does not support the version of the importer for option II. The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for option III. The Commission proposes the following version of § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16b the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 the word "the order' is replaced by "the act'; (b) c. 1 the words "the order of the Prosecutor General" shall be replaced by the act of the Minister of Justice. 2. In para. The second sentence is the third sentence of the General Prosecutor's order, which is definitively replaced by the Act of the Minister of Justice, which is final. 3. In para. The first sentence of the sentence is replaced by the first sentence of the word "Secretary of Justice" and the words "the Chief Prosecutor of the Ministry of Justice" shall be replaced by the words "Secretary of Justice."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u132	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote option II of § 12, not supported by the Commission. They voted 126 MPs: 1 against 12, abstention 116. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting § 12 in the version of the Commission. They voted 132 MPs: for 131, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u133	The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for option I of § 13. By option II: ...... 13............................ 13. Article 17 is amended as follows: Art. 17. (1) The Council of Protection shall examine the proposal of the District Prosecutor or of the Judge-Rapporteur, assessing whether the statements, explanations or information of the endangered person on criminal proceedings are essential, as well as the objectivity and extent of the threat; and: 1. if the conditions laid down in this Law are met, it shall decide to grant protection which it shall immediately send to the Bureau of Protection; 2. if the conditions laid down in this Law are not met, it shall take a decision preventing the provision of protection. (2) The decisions of the Protection Council shall not be subject to appeal. The Commission does not support the version of the importer for option II. The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for option III. The Commission proposes the following version of § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the word "Director" is replaced by "Manufacturer" and the words "the Chief Prosecutor" are replaced by "the Minister of Justice." 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: (2) The Minister of Justice shall assess the objectivity and extent of the threat, as well as the possibility of inclusion in the Protection Programme, and when he finds that: 1. there are the conditions laid down in this Law, issuing a protection act which sends for the implementation of the Protection Bureau; 2. the conditions laid down in this Protection Act are not available, immediately send the proposal to the Protection Council with a written opinion on it for its examination in accordance with art. 13a, para. 5. 3. In para. 3 words................................................................................. 2, p. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission 4. In para. 4 The order of the Prosecutor General is replaced by the Act of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u134	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote option II for § 13, not supported by the Commission. They voted 127 MPs: for no, against 9, abstention 118. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting § 13 in the version of the Commission. They voted 129 MPs: for 129, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u135	The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for option I of § 14. By option II: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17a The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 2 the words "the Chief Prosecutor" shall be replaced by "the Protection Board." 2. In para. 3 the words "the Chief Prosecutor" shall be replaced by "the Protection Board." The Commission does not support the version of the importer for option II. The Commission proposes the following version of § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17a The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the word "Secretary" is replaced by "Secretary." 2. In para. 2 the word "Secretary" is replaced by "Secretary Prosecutor" and the words "Secretary Prosecutor" are replaced by the Minister of Justice." 3. In para. 3 the words "the chief prosecutor" shall be replaced by "the minister of justice."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u136	Statements? I can't see. We are going to vote on option II of § 14, not supported by the Commission. They voted 127 MPs: for no, against 8, abstention 119. The offer is not accepted. We are now going to vote on § 14 in the version of the Commission. Voted 1130 MPs: 130, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u137	The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for option I of § 15. By option II: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17b the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 2 the words "the chief prosecutor" shall be replaced by the authority that made the proposal. 2. In para. 3 words in the opinion to the Prosecutor-General propose that the Prosecutor-General is replaced by the decision taken for The Commission does not support the version of the importer for option II. The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for option III. The Commission proposes the following version of § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17b the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 2 the words "the chief prosecutor" shall be replaced by "the minister of justice." 2. In para. 3 the words "the chief prosecutor" shall be replaced by "the minister of justice."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u138	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote option II of § 15, not supported by the Commission. They voted 127 MPs: for 3, against 9, abstention 115. The offer is not accepted. We are now going to § 15 in the version of the Commission. They voted 129 MPs: for 129, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u139	Paragraph 16 "Operation I'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for Option I. Option II: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18, para. 1 is amended as . (1) Within three days of the date of the Council's decision on protection for inclusion in the Protection Programme, the Bureau of Defense shall enter into a written protection agreement in person with the endangered person or its guardian or guardian if it is incapable. The Commission does not support the wording of the importers for option II. The Commission proposes the following version of § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18, para. 1 the words "the order of the Prosecutor General" shall be replaced by the act of the Minister of Justice. "
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u140	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote option II for § 16, not supported by the Commission. They voted 132 MPs: for 2, against 11, abstention 119. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 16 in the version of the Commission. They voted 129 MPs: for 128, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] Professor Hristov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u141	Paragraph 17 "Operation I'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for Option I. Option II: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19th para. 1, t. 1 is amended as follows: "1." the number of the Council's decision on protection for inclusion in the Protection Programme; The Commission does not support the version of the importer for option II. The Commission shall support the version of the importer for option III. The Commission proposes the following version of § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19th para. 1, t. 1 the words "the order of the Prosecutor General" shall be replaced by the act of the Minister of Justice. "
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u142	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote option II for § 17, not supported by the Commission. They voted 123 MPs: for no, against 8, abstention 115. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 17 in the version of the Commission. They voted 126 MPs: 126, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u143	Paragraph 18 "Operation I'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for Option I. Option II: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20, in the text before t. 1 the words "ordering of the Prosecutor General" shall be replaced by a decision of the Council of Protection. " The Commission does not support the version of the importer for option II. The Commission proposes the following version of § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20 the following amendments shall be made: 1. in the text before t. 1 the words "order of the Prosecutor General" shall be replaced by "Act of the Minister of Justice." 2. in t. 4 the word "Secretary" is replaced by "Secretary."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u144	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote option II of § 18, not supported by the Commission. They voted 127 MPs: for 2, against 6, abstention 119. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 18 in the version of the Commission. They voted 124 MPs: 124, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u145	Paragraph 19 "Operation I. The Commission shall support the version of the importer for option I. Option II: Art. 21. In cases referred to in art. 20 The Council of Protection shall decide on a proposal from the Bureau of Protection, the District Prosecutor or the Judge-Rapporteur. The Commission does not support the version of the importer for option II. The Commission shall propose the following version of § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21 the words "the chief prosecutor" shall be replaced by "the minister of justice."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u146	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote option II for § 19, not supported by the Commission. They voted 127 MPs: for no, against 7, abstention 120. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 19 in the version of the Commission. Vote 128 MPs: for 128, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u147	Paragraph 20 "Operation I'. The Commission shall support the version of the importer for option I. Option II: .................................................................................. Article 22 is amended as follows: Art. 22. The protection programme may also be terminated at the request of the protected person addressed to the Protection Council through the liaison officer. The Commission does not support the version of the importer for option II. The Commission proposes the following version of § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22 words are replaced by the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u148	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote option II for § 20, not supported by the Commission. Vote 128 MPs: 2 against 8, abstention 118. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 20 in the version of the Commission. Vote 127 MPs: for 126, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u149	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote option II for § 20, not supported by the Commission. Vote 128 MPs: 2 against 8, abstention 118. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 20 in the version of the Commission. Vote 127 MPs: for 126, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u150	Paragraph 21 "Operation I'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for Option I. Option II: .................................................................. Article 23 is amended as follows: Art. 23. The Protection Council shall examine the proposal of the Bureau of Protection, the District Prosecutor or the Judge-Rapporteur or the request of the protected person to terminate the Protection Programme and shall decide to terminate, which shall be final. The Commission does not support the version of the importer for option II. The Commission proposes the following version of § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23 the words "The Prosecutor General' shall be replaced by the Minister of Justice' and the words "the order for termination, which is final' shall be replaced by "the act for termination, which shall be final'.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u151	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote option II for § 21, not supported by the Commission. They voted 129 MPs: 1 against 9, abstention 119. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 21 in the version of the Commission. Vote 128 MPs: for 128, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u152	Paragraph 22 "Operation I'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for Option I. Option II: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27, para. 2 is amended as . (2) For the measures taken under para. 1 The head of the Bureau of Protection shall, within three days, inform the President of the Protection Council, who shall convene an immediate meeting of the Board to deal with the case. The Commission does not support the version of the importer for option II. The Commission shall support the version of the importer for option III. The Commission proposes the following version of § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27, para. The President of the Protection Council shall be replaced by the Minister of Justice within three days by the Secretary of Justice and shall inform the Protection Board within three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u153	Thank you. For speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote option II of § 22, not supported by the Commission. They voted 129 MPs: for no, against 9, abstention 120. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 22 in the version of the Commission. They voted 132 MPs: 131 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u154	Option I of § 23. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for Option I. Option II of § 23. ..................................................... In § 1 of the additional provision, the words "in the case of the Prosecutor General's Office' shall be taken into account. The Commission does not support the version of the importer for option II. The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for option III. Proposal from MP Hamid Hamid Hamid. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes the following version of § 23: ..................................................... In the additional provision § 1 is amended as follows: ................................................................................... Within the meaning of this law, the activities of the Office of the Minister of Justice are directly carried out by the staff of the Bureau of Protection for the organisation, provision and implementation of special protection, as well as for the organisation and implementation of security.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u155	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote option II for § 23, not supported by the Commission. They voted 129 MPs: for no, against 10, abstention 119. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting § 23 in the version of the Commission. They voted 129 MPs: for 129, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u156	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u157	I'm voting on the name of the division. They voted 132 MPs: 132, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u158	Option I of § 24: .................................................................................. In transitional and final provisions, § 17 of the Prosecutor General is converted into the Department of Defense...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the version of the importer for option I. The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for option II. The Commission proposes the following version of § 24: .................................................................................. With the entry into force of this law, the Chief Prosecutor's Office of Protection is transformed into a self-organised organizational structure of the Office of Protection of Threatened Persons at the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u159	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote option I for § 24, not supported by the Commission. They voted 129 MPs: for 2, against 10, abstention 117. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting § 24 in the version of the Commission. They voted 144 MPs: 127 against 17, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u160	Paragraph 25. Option I of § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In transitional and final provisions § 18 of the Prosecutor General's Office of Protection at the Minister of Justice of the General Directorate of Security at the Ministry of Justice. The Commission does not support the version of the importer for option I. (Variant II) The Commission shall support the version of the importer for option II. Proposal from MP Hamid Hamid Hamid. ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The long-term tangible assets used by the Bureau of Defense of the Prosecutor General, except for the real estate of the judiciary, managed by the Supreme Judicial Council in accordance with art. 30, para. 2, p. 5 of the Judicial Law is granted to the Ministry of Justice. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission proposes the following version of § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The long-term tangible assets used by the Attorney General's Office shall be provided to the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u161	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote option I of § 25, not supported by the Commission. They voted 199 MPs: 1 against 13, abstention 185. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on Hamid Hamid's proposal, not supported by the Commission. They voted 199 MPs: 95 against 50, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting § 25 in the version of the Commission. They voted 201 MPs: 130, against 68, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u162	Paragraph 26. Option I of § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In transitional and final provisions § 19 para. 1, para. 2 and para. 3 The Prosecutor General is replaced by the Minister of Justice The Commission does not support the version of the importer for option I. (Variant II) sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) The employment of the employees (2) The persons who have performed a position designated for taking up office by a civil servant shall be appointed to the post if they meet the requirements of art. 7 and within one month of the appointment of the post of employment by a civil servant, submit an application under art. 8 of the Civil Service Act. The order to appoint them shall award the rank assigned in the Single Classifier of the posts in the administration for the occupation of the post. The Commission does not support the version of the importer for option II. The Commission shall support the version of the importer for option III. The Commission shall propose the following version of § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) The services of the staff of the Bureau of Defense with the Prosecutor General shall be in service with the Ministry of Justice. (2) The employment relations of the employees of the Bureau of Protection with the Prosecutor General shall be transferred to the Ministry of Justice according to art. 123 of the Labor Code. (3) The persons under para. 1 and 2 shall be transferred to the Ministry of Justice without a test period other than those with a test period.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u163	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote option I for § 26, not supported by the Commission. They voted 139 MPs: 2 against 11 abstention 126. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting option II for § 26, not supported by the Commission. They voted 136 MPs: for no, against 12, abstention 124. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting § 26 in the version of the Commission. They voted 130 MPs: for 129, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u164	"The Bible says: In transitional and final provisions, § 20 The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 27 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u165	Thank you. Please reject the voting procedure for § 27 on a proposal from the Commission. [[Noise and lines.]] Vote under § 27 for, if you want to stay, against, if you want to be rejected. [[Loud noise and lines.]] We vote on the paragraph itself, whether to stay or to be rejected. For, if you want to have it, against or restrained, if you don't want it to be there. We only vote on the paragraphs! Isn't that what we agreed from the beginning, not the Commission's sanctions? [[Noise and lines.]] Vote the paragraph for, if you want to stay, against being rejected. The Commission's proposal is to reject it. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Vote 187 MPs: 27, against 92, abstention 68. The offer is not accepted. Paragraph 27 is rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u166	....... 28........................................... 28 Within one month of the entry into force of this law, the Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor General shall carry out the activities necessary to transfer the Bureau of Protection to the Ministry of Justice. Proposal by the MP Radostin Vassilev, made in accordance with the order of art. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 28, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: Within three months of the entry into force of this law, the Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor General shall carry out the activities necessary to transfer the Bureau of Defense to the Minister of Justice. The three-month period shall also apply to the activities under § 25 relating to the transfer of fixed tangible assets to the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u167	Thank you. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Hamid. [[(Radio.) Commendations: "Eee!" by IHN and IBBNI.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u168	Madam President, will the National Assembly budget find funds to buy a herd of cattle that the cattle here have become too much? [[Happy tidings.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u169	Please, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u170	Don't let a man come out and talk. [[Sighs: "Eee! " and laughter by IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u171	That's your right.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u172	I propose by order of art. 79, para. 6, p. 2, Madam President, everywhere the word "three months" shall be replaced by "six months." My arguments are as follows: at a meeting of the Legal Commission, of the Working Group and at second reading the representatives of the Ministry of Justice said that this three-month period was insufficient for them. The next argument is that there are no funds in the budget of the Ministry of Justice for this. I am not optimistic that in the next three months there will be a new budget update or the state budget for 2022 will be adopted. For this reason, I propose that the deadline be six months in order for the Ministry of Justice to have some lev for this Bureau will have to pay salaries.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u173	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by Hamid Hamid, everywhere in § 27, the word "three months" to be replaced by "six months." Vote 205 MPs: 95, against 93, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. Please, re-election mode. Vote 204 MPs: 96 against 96 abstentions 12. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting to the vote § 28, which becomes § 27 in the version of the Commission. Vote 180 MPs: 131, against 3, abstention 46. The motion is accepted. Please, Mr. Mihailov, don't be distracted. [[Happy tidings.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u174	Excuse me, Madam President. Under § 29, there is a proposal from the MP Krum Zarkov, made in accordance with Article 29. 79, para. 6, p. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 29, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 (1) Within two months of the entry into force of this Law, the Council of Ministers shall bring the rules of application of the law in accordance with it. (2) The cooperation and interaction agreements, as well as the joint instructions for interaction with the authorities of government and local self-government, concluded, respectively, until the entry into force of this law, shall apply insofar as they do not concern it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u175	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 29, which shall become § 28 in the version of the Commission. They voted 176 MPs: 132, against 3, abstention 41. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u176	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 30. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 31. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33, which shall become § 32.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u177	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 30 to 33 which become paragraphs 29 to 32 respectively by importer. They voted 182 MPs: 132 against 7, abstention 43. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u178	The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for option I of § 34. The Commission shall, in principle, support the version of the importer for option II. The Commission proposes the following version of § 34, which becomes § 33: ................................................ In the Law on the Judiciary (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 138 t. 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. participate in the Protection Council under the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in Criminal Procedure; 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 3 t. 3 is amended as follows: "3." organise and carry out the security of judges, prosecutors and investigators under conditions and in accordance with the instructions of the Minister of Justice, agreed with the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council; (b) paragraph 4 is amended as follows: (4) When carrying out the activities under para. 3, p. The Head of the Security Directorate shall cooperate with the administrative heads of the judicial authorities, with the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council and with the Executive Director of the Institute.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u179	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 34, which shall become § 33 in the version of the Commission. Vote 191 MPs: 134 against 2, abstention 55. [[Applause from ICN, DB and IBBNI.]] The proposal is adopted, with this and the Law of the Second Voting. This item on the agenda is exhausted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u180	Can we have a negative vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u181	Maybe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u182	Dear colleagues! I am doing a negative vote, and I voted against it because this job is funny, and your applause is even funnier. You have no idea who will manage your so-called reform. This is not a reform at all, mind you. You move one Bureau from one room to the other, the big deal. To be able to say something to your constituents, who will ask you in the next two months: why couldn't you do the most important thing, the government, and manage the various crises? Not to press a button here, and you think it's reform. The reform only begins with the push of a button. Then there are a number of administrative processes that need to be done, and you have confused them with the adoption of this law, because instead of six months, you give them three months. And tomorrow, if Mr. Geshev takes over as Justice Minister, you'll probably suggest we move the Bureau from the Justice Department to the D.A.'s office because that's convenient for the konncture. That's no way to reform! That's how you do stupid things. You can certainly do things all the time. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u183	Thank you. For procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u184	Thank you, Madam President. Please put to the vote an extension of the working time until the agenda is completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u185	Thank you. I put to the vote the so-called procedural proposal to extend the agenda until the points have been completed. Extension of the time until the points of the Programme have been completed. Vote 165 MPs: 83, against 69, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] Please, re-election mode. Mrs. Capon, isn't it until 12:00? We can't get through in 12 hours if they're chilling us out from tomorrow. Please, re-election mode. [[Comments from GERB-SDS: "Wait! "]] Wait. Please cancel the vote as I said to wait. There were MPs who raised their hand. Please, re-election mode. Mrs. Capon, there were many MPs who raised their hand. Did all the MPs vote? Please suspend the vote and declare the result. They voted 194 MPs: 96, against 80, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise, lines and partial applause.]] Take a half hour off. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u186	Colleagues, we're moving on. I will report to you Decree No 245 of 14 September 2021 of the President of the Republic, which dissolves the 46th National Assembly on 16 September 2021 and schedules elections for the National Assembly on 14 November 2021. The decree was issued on 14 September 2021. Let's move on. There's a disbanding decree issued tomorrow. We continue with the second vote of the Draft Law on the ratification of the Tripartite Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u187	Declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u188	You want a group statement? Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u189	Mrs. Chairman! There are two dates that unite all Bulgarian citizens "May 24th," and September 15th. They are associated with gratitude, hope, and smiles. Happy holiday to all students, teachers and parents, to all enlightened workers! Let the school continue to inspire knowledge, dreams and creations. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today is the 46th National Assembly. Today there will be many declarations of what it is, what it would be, what it would be like if so, if otherwise, and so on. We from the DPS will not comment on the current situation. There are reasons for this, and it is a consequence of the last 12 years, not just the result of the last few months. In recent months, we have seen a disparate attitude towards the Constitution and the laws of the country. Violation of the Constitution at the highest level of the President and the National Assembly. The President did not simply allow himself to appoint a minister who did not meet the requirements of the Constitution, he unpardonly crossed out the legality. There is no precedent in our recent history. All authorities and institutions carefully respected the basic law and this is normal for democracy and the rule of law. Understanding that despite the differences something must unite us, that despite the state of democracy, the main pillars must be kept jealous because they keep statehood, they make the state stable at its core, they make the state perspective. There was a president who decided that the Constitution and the laws didn't matter. This president, putting himself above the Constitution, is either forgetting himself or deliberately passing the idea of a presidential republic. Without any idea of the damage it causes to democracy, to statehood and to what extent it puts the future at risk. We want to tell this president: by his actions he is destroying statehood and democracy, endangering peace and stability in the country and the region. In five years, he failed to make sense of the presidential institutionality and unfold his constitutional powers as embodying the unity of the nation. In five years, he failed to understand the power of direct choice and the support of voters and citizens. We at the DPS have the confidence to put public attention to the problems that threaten our country's future. We were not afraid of totalitarian power, we were not afraid of militiamen and weapons, and we fought in the name of universal human values, in the name of democracy, and we won. Despite what we've been through as we fought for human rights and freedoms and wanted peaceful protests to bring our birth names back to our original rights, we have shown that we do not want revenge. We have shown and then proved in the years that we want a life of peace together, together, to build democracy and our own future, the future of our children, the future of our homeland. So we won't let anyone accidentally fall into politics destroy what was created in all these years. Destroying is an easy process, building is a difficult and long process. We at the DPS today also want to talk about the active activities of the interior minister from the service cabinet during the last election campaign, called a decently for the benefit of the fight against the purchase of votes. What is this really about? It is about the fact that Rumen Radev's office showed the very unholy nature of its true policy, so far away from the proclaimed goals and European identity. The behaviour of law enforcement officers, the shares of police officers can be mildly called repression and humiliation. They were intended to intimidate and humiliate human dignity and were selective. The repressions and humiliations have been documented. Far stronger and lasting traces, however, will leave these repressions and humiliations in the souls of the repressed and humiliated, their loved ones, to all witnesses. These actions of the Interior Minister have awakened ugly memories of the totalitarian communist past, guarded in the outermost parts of the minds of Muslims, ethnic Turks, pomats, Roma. The words of the repressed and humiliated with a normal tone cannot be transmitted, and the words are weak to convey the outrage and anger of the repressed and humiliated. And words would be understood only by those who have a heart and conscience, have a sense of justice, measure objectively with an archin and by those who know what it is to be intimidated, repressed, humiliated. Today, our word from the DPS is for everyone who has been intimidated, repressed and humiliated by President Radev's Home Minister to intimidate, humiliate, trample on the dignity of one person is a pep talk of the weak and the cowardly. Repressions and humiliations are an instrument of weak governance, a vivid expression and proof of their frustration. In the 21st century in European Bulgaria, democratic and rule of law should not allow self-forgotten ministers to break the country's laws. Madam President, honourable Members! Because of populism and close party interests, Bulgarian citizens are allowed to bear all the negatives of the crisis and from the poor to become even poorer. We, from the DPS, were active and worked the parliament to do its job on the commitment to pensioners, citizens and businesses. On a proposal from the DPS, pensioners will receive 120 leva. by the end of the year; 100 million lv. they will receive municipalities; 85 million. lv. for agriculture; 70 million lv. For tourism; restaurants, hotels and tour operators; 40 million lv. For passenger transport plus 15 million lv. For remote and mountain regions; 20 million lv. For self-insuring persons; 60 million lv. for air carriers; 15 million lv. For higher schools; 4 million lv. for religion; 105 million lv. for doctors, nurses and nurses. This is very important, especially in the current social political situation, against the backdrop of a fourth wave of the mold crisis, against the backdrop of poverty and overwhelming hopelessness. By doing so, we guarantee the peace of all Bulgarian citizens, so that they can meet their pressing needs, so that the municipalities can also face the crises with the anti-crisis measures we have proposed. But that's not enough, democracy is at risk today. The GERB model continues with full force, but with other performers examples of this many. The most important thing I want to say, however, is that statehood is under increasing threat. If we can save democracy by means of the main instrument of democracy and the elections, they cannot save statehood without a common will, a new governance model and a vision for our common future. It is high time to stop the violation of the Constitution and the laws of the highest level so that the Bulgarian citizens have the calmness for their future and hope that the new elections can make us more sensible and divisive in the name of the people and the state. From this highest tribune we, from DPS, address all Bulgarian citizens. Dear Bulgarian citizens, do not be afraid and defend your rights and freedoms within the framework of the Law, do not be afraid of self-forgotten policemen and ministers if you do not violate the laws and regulations. The constitution and the laws apply equally to everyone and we all owe respect to the law. If the Constitution and the laws are violated by police and ministers, we must raise our voice and say it clearly...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u190	The weather, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u191	...because otherwise the fight for democracy and Euro-Atlantic values would have been in vain. Two or three more sentences. It is up to all of us to make our choice and to defend democracy, to say firmly that we are for a European future, for a strong, united prosperous Bulgaria. There is no strong state, no responsible, active and free citizens. Let us responsibly make our choice for a strong and prosperous European Bulgaria, let us change the model of GERB, but not with a worse version of the same model, let us, through dialogue with arguments, programs and policies, build our common future. Appeals for dialogue require constructive behaviour, not just declarations. Dialogue requires responsibility, vision, willpower and capacity, dialogue means building bridges, not destroying them. Dear colleagues, we are on the verge of important elections for the future of the country, for our own future and for the future of our children. We believe that the mind will prevail and all politicians and all Bulgarian citizens, we will approach responsibly and with a sense of duty we will make the right choice and lay the foundations for a new stage of the democratic development of the country. Let us wish to be healthy and united along the way! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u192	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Moving on to item two on our agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF A TRISTAL AGREEMENT FOR THE DONATION OF VACSITIONS AGAINST COVID-19, PRODUCED BY THE ASTRAZENEC, BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, THE KINGDOM OF BUTAN AND THE ASTRAZENE AND THE TWISTLE AGREEMENT FOR THE DONATION OF VACINS AGAINST COVID-19, PRODUCED BY THE ASTRACENA, BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE KINGDOM OF BUTAN. Importer (s) of the Council of Ministers on 13 August 2021. Adopted in first vote on 7 September 2021. Here you go, Dr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u193	Madam President, honourable Members! "Report for a second vote on a Draft Law on the ratification of a Tripartite Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneca, between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Kingdom of Bhutan and AstraZeneca and a Bilateral Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Bhutan, No 46 102-02-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 August 2021, adopted on the first vote on 7 September 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u194	Report the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u195	supplied by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Kingdom of Bhutan and AstraZeneka and the Bilateral Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Bhutan. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u196	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any statements on the name of the Law? I won't. We're closing the debate. Voting regime for the name of the Law supported by the Commission. They voted 109 MPs: 108, against 1, no abstentions. [[Noise and lines.]] Please check the quorum through the computerised system. Please declare the registration. There's a quorum. We will proceed with the hearing. Revoting the name of the Law. They voted 122 MPs: for 122, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. For a group statement, Mrs. Ninova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u197	Dear Bulgarian teachers, educators, Buddhists, dear parents and students! Let it be a happy holiday 15 September to you and to every Bulgarian family there has been, there will probably be students! Good luck! Be healthy and successful in this noble work, let it be our common success, because the educated man is a realized man! Good luck to the new school year! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madam President! Today is the last meeting of the 46th National Assembly. Each party will assess it from its point of view and that is its right. It will be important to evaluate the people who chose us and thanks to whose choice we are here. It was for the most part the choice of change, and the great sin of the 46th National Assembly is that no reason and responsibility were found to make this change. The forty-sixth National Assembly should be a lesson and may we be good disciples today on September 15th and learn it. We will maintain our conduct to the end not to evaluate the other parties, and even less personal assessments of colleagues. Today and here it is not just about the parties. This is about Bulgaria and we are obliged to point out some facts and truths. It's not about petty opposition and mahley nagging, but there are serious reasons for us to get here, and if we don't, we don't think about them and try to change them, we risk failing next time. There are basic principles in politics, there are basic principles of statehood that are worth talking about, and to speak in a good tone. The 40th National Assembly began in the wrong way, and there is no way it can end right. The beginning was messed up because we put pre-dividing lines on the status quo and parties of change. Fucked up because by that, you honourable Members of the new parties understood parties that were in parliament and were in parliament and those that were outside the parliament. Without being aware and reporting that being in parliament does not necessarily mean that you manage, that you are part of the GERB model and that you are a status quo. For five years we fought seriously against that status quo and against that model. We've told you before, with all the consequences of this fight with blows, with dirt, with checks, with attempts to buy us, with attempts to drill us, we've seen everything in these five years and we didn't give up, and we didn't sell out. It was a messed-up approach. Moreover, if we follow your logic, you already have two parliaments involved here. Therefore, you are already a status quo. That was the first reason, and it is fundamental to the rift that took place in parliament. The second is the lack of reason and responsibility to make a majority. Dear MPs, the illusion of floating majorities has played a bad role. A floating majority means floating buying and selling votes, of interest. Lack of reason and responsibility for a lasting majority is the second reason we have come to this point, and we have come to a very strange situation. That is why I say that it is about basic principles in politics and in statehood that the winning party should be declared opposition. Who are you opposed to? To yourself because you manage the National Assembly with the Presidency and manage most of the committees in the National Assembly. That's a wrong approach! Originally messed up! Third reason the emotions, the interests of the self, and according to your lines and group corporate interests took over the mind and interests of the state. This shows political immaturity, perhaps dependence, but it crossed borders and came to personal insults with representatives of flora and fauna, to assessments of physical and mental characteristics between MPs. It's messed up and it's messed up! During this whole time, the Coalition for Bulgaria (BSP) did not enter into hidden talks, we were not dependent. We were reasonable, we talked with all respectable and with arguments with one wish and one goal: to make a lasting majority for change, but also a majority for stability. Dear colleagues, whatever is going on outside this room, whatever is being done by official or regular offices, the change is here. If we don't start it here, it won't happen because we're going to be looking for eight billion for in house orders for years. While there is a text in the Law that this is legal, this needs to change here. We will continue to wonder why last week a municipal hospital was sold for 200,000. lv. and at the same time, the 56th private hospital in Sofia was opened, and why can't people in the regions be treated and in Sofia, in Plovdiv, the entire health care is concentrated in Varna?! Because this is written here in the Law, and if we don't show reason and responsibility that the change of this model starts here, we'll be stuck for years. This is what we wanted to do, but also to give stability in this change, so that there is no chaos and uncertainty. Of course, we need to take into account that we did something good. Self-criticism is a good thing, but we have to tell her what good we did. We've done the budget update. All the groups are now taking credit for how they offered pensions, for farmers, for business. Yeah, and we suggested them. There's no point in running and running because we've been offering them for five years. There's no point in measuring who, how long, and how. It's important that we find reason to do it and help people at this point. But I would like to point out something that no one paid attention to during the update. Why was the update necessary and useful, besides helping people? This update has brought the rule of law and the rule of law back to where they belong in the parliamentary republic here in Parliament. In this is the great dignity of the update that did not give away this money from the office by decree of the Council of Ministers that they were not distributed on the roads and traveling by cars and jeeps, but happened here. This is the great dignity of this update if we look at it from statehood. Of course, we helped people, but it's mending. That's mending the problem. Our third mistake is that we didn't understand the nature of the problems. We just patched it up in three months. Look at what's going on in Greece. Parliament and the government of Greece decide that if your current bill is now 100 units higher because of prices and inflation, your government covers 80 of these units. This government also raised aid to the energy poor by 20%. Permanent measures, serious measures! We just patched something up. It's good, but it's not good enough. We are afraid that at the moment of the finals of this Parliament and the beginning of the election campaign you will slide along the path of seeking guilt. It's already there. I assure you, this will not bring authority to either of us, nor to you. The right path is not to blame for what we could not do, but to offer solutions to how things should be done from now on. I guarantee, on behalf of Coalition BSP for Bulgaria, that we will do just that in the future, decisions that guarantee that the change of the current model will be irreversible, and solutions that bring stability for Bulgaria and security for the Bulgarian people. Good luck! I wish you a meaningful campaign with arguments, with policies, with dialogue and debate on the substance, and finally the people will decide. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u198	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. For a procedure, Mr. Hadjigenov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u199	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making the following procedural proposal: to extend the working day until the end of item seven of the agenda, which is a different proposal from what was voted on just now. And one small lyrical deviation. Mrs. Ninova... [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u200	Mr. Hadjigenov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u201	No, it's about the procedure. [[Loud noise and lines.]] If you do not want to be considered status quo, do not vote with DPS and GERB. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u202	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal to extend the working time until the discussion of item seven on the agenda. Vote 172 MPs: 103, against 68, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. [[People's representatives want a re-vote.]] It's a re-vote. Vote 168 MPs: for 104, against 64, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u203	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u204	Are there any statements under art. 1 of the Law? If there isn't, I'm calling off the debate. We're going to vote on art. 1 with a text supported by the Commission. They voted 117 MPs: 117, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. [[(Reply:]] The quarm was checked right at the beginning of the session, ladies and gentlemen. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Verification of the quorum in relation to the forthcoming vote through the computerised system. 123 MPs have been registered. There's a quorum, so we're moving on. I shall put it to the vote once again. 1 in the version of the Commission. They voted 116 MPs: 116, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. [[(Replyes: there is ……]] How is there no quorum, people? [[Loud noise and lines.]] Go on, Dr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u205	Under art. 2 has a proposal of the National Representative Hristo Gazhev....................................................................................................... Two down. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u206	I first put to the vote the proposal of the MP Hristo Gazhev, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 126 MPs: for 4, against 101, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 2 in the version supported by the Commission. Vote 126 MPs: 125, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. That's how the law was passed. Moving on to the next point: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE TRISTAL AGREEMENT FOR THE DONATION OF VACSITIONS AGAINST COVID-19, PRODUCED BY THE ASTRAZENEC, BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, BOSN AND HERZENIC AND THE ASTRAZENEC AND THE TWINK AGREEMENT FOR THE DONATION OF VACINS AGAINST COVID-19, PROCEEDEDED BY ASTRAZENICA, BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND BOSNA AND HERCEGOVINA. Please, Mr. Kirilov, report the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u207	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! "Report for a second vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Tripartite Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina and AstraZeneka and the Bilateral Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria and Bosnia and Herzegovina, No 46-102-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 August 2021, adopted on the first vote on 8 September 2021. "The Act for the ratification of the Tripartite Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina and AstraZeneka and the Bilateral Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u208	Thank you, Dr. Kirilov. Are there any statements on the name of the bill? I won't. We're closing the debate. Please vote on the name of the Law. They voted 115 MPs: 115, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u209	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u210	Are there any statements under art. 1? I won't. We're closing the debate. Vote art. 1 in the version proposed by the Commission. They voted 117 MPs: 117, none against, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u211	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I want a re-vote procedure because, as you know by the Rules of Procedure, the laws and decisions of the National Assembly are adopted when there are more than 121 votes. There were 115 votes on the last one, and you declared it accepted. Let us at least follow the rules and have really 121 votes. [[Noise and lines.]] The verification of the quorum of Rules of Procedure shall take place only in relation to the upcoming vote and not in principle.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u212	Mr. Gajev, if you were present, you'd know that I did the quorum check right in connection with the upcoming vote. So let's not fall into such... [[Reply from the MP Hristo Gazhev.]] Either way, there's been a proposal for a re-vote, and I'm putting it to a re-vote. 130 MPs voted: 130, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Report to Art. 2, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u213	Under art. 2 has a proposal of the National Representative Hristo Gazhev....................................................................................................... Two down. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u214	I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Hristo Gazhev, not supported by the Commission. They voted 129 MPs: for 2, against 111, abstentioned 16. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 2 in the version proposed by the Commission. Vote 128 MPs: for 127, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. With this, the whole law is passed. Moving on to: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT FOR THE SALE OF VACS FROM AND BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE KINGDOM OFNORwegIA ON THE SALE OF DOSES TO MODERNA SWITZERLAND GMBH AGAINST COVID-19, No 46-102-02-6. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2021, adopted in the first vote on 8 September 2021. Report the name of the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u215	A second vote report on a bill for the ratification of the Agreement on the resale of vaccines from and between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Norway on the resale of doses of vaccines to Moderna Switzerland GmbH against Covid-19, No 46-102-02-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2021, adopted in the first vote on 8 September 2021 "Action for ratification of the Agreement on the resale of vaccines from and between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Norway on the resale of doses of vaccines to Moderna Switzerland GmbH against Covid-19. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u216	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any statements on the name of the Law? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting on the name of the bill in the version proposed by the Commission. They voted 126 MPs: 126, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Report to Art. 1 of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u217	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u218	Are there any statements under art. 1? I won't. We're closing the debate. I shall put to the vote art. 1 in the version of the Commission. 125 MPs voted: 125, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please report to Art. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u219	Under art. 2 has a proposal of the National Representative Hristo Gazhev....................................................................................................... Two down. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 2: Art. 2. Orders on grounds of art. 25, para. 2 of the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria the Agreement under art. 1 shall not be promulgated in the Official Journal
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u220	I put, first of all, to the vote the proposal of the MP Hristo Gazhev, not supported by the Commission. Vote 124 MPs: 1 against 113 abstentions 10. The offer is not accepted. Vote regime for art. 2 in the version proposed by the Commission. 125 MPs voted: 125, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposal has been passed, and with this, the entire bill. Let's move on to the next one: LAW FOR THE RATIFITING OF A TRISTAL AGREEMENT FOR THE DONATION OF VACSITIONS AGAINST COVID-19, PROCEEDED BY THE ASTRAZENEC, BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADECH AND ASTRAZENICA AND A TWISTLY AGREEMENT FOR THE DONATION OF AXINS AGAINST COVID-19, PROCED BY ASTRAZENEKA, BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE People'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH Importer of the Council of Ministers. I ask for the Commission Report, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u221	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a Draft Law on the ratification of a Tripartite Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneca, between the Republic of Bulgaria, the People's Republic of Bangladesh and AstraZeneka and a Bilateral Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneca, between the Republic of Bulgaria and the People's Republic of Bangladesh, No 46-102-02-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 September 2021. At its extraordinary meeting held on 14 September 2021, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a Draft Law on the ratification of a Tripartite Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria, the People's Republic of Bangladesh and AstraZeneka and a Bilateral Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria and the People's Republic of Bangladesh, No 46-102-02-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 September 2021. The meeting was attended by the Minister of Health Dr. Stoycho Katsarov, who presented the Bill and the reasons for it. It shall inform the Members of the National Assembly that the Agreement by which the European Commission is empowered to propose to the participating Member States and to conclude, on their behalf, preliminary agreements for the purchase of vaccines (supplied by Decision No 491 of the Council of Ministers of 2020 and ratified by the Law on the ratification of the Agreement by which the European Commission is empowered to offer to the participating Member States and to conclude, on their behalf, preliminary agreements for the purchase of vaccines (supplied by Decision No 491 of the Council of Ministers of 2020) with their producers, with the aim of obtaining vaccines in the fight against the pandemic of COVID.19 (en. 71 from 2020) . The clause of art. 8.3, point (b) of the preliminary agreement concluded between the European Commission and AstraZeneca, provides that, in the event of an excess of doses of vaccines, participating Member States shall be able to donate them to countries with low or medium-sized incomes or to public institutions and to donate or resell such doses without profit to other European countries which agree to be bound by the terms of the Agreement applicable to a participating Member State. With his grams of cum. No 2.9.13-1073/23.07.2021 The Permanent Representation of the European Union notified the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria that on 23 July 2021, under the Working Group In view of this information and also due to the lack of interest from the Bulgarian citizens in the vaccine Vaxzevria, communication with the People's Republic of Bangladesh through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs started. Negotiations were held and, in accordance with a decision of the Council of Ministers, a Bilateral Agreement was signed for the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria and the People's Republic of Bangladesh and a Tripartite Agreement for the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria, the People's Republic of Bangladesh and AstraZeneca. The agreements provide for a donation of 270 000 doses of Vaxzevria vaccine with an expiration date of 31 October 2021. The ratification of the above agreements is on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts situated in Brussels, Belgium, for settlement of disputes and for the applicable law in their implementation to be Belgian law. The bill provides for, on the basis of art. 25, para. 2 of the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, the ratified agreements should not be published in the Official Journal of the European Union because of the confidentiality requirements laid down therein, as well as in the Agreement concluded between the European Commission and AstraZeneca. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the Draft Law on the ratification of the Tripartite Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria, the People's Republic of Bangladesh and AstraZeneka and the Bilateral Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria and the People's Republic of Bangladesh, No 46-102-02-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 September 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u222	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. First reading voting regime for the Draft Law on the ratification of a Tripartite Agreement on the Donation of Vaccines. Vote 117 MPs: 115, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. For a procedure, Mr. Kirilov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u223	Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure and Procedure of the National Assembly, I am making a procedural proposal that the bill which has just been adopted in the first vote should also be subject to a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u224	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any other suggestions? I won't. I'm voting on this procedural proposal. They voted 123 MPs: for 123, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Report the bill, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u225	supplied by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria, the People's Republic of Bangladesh and AstraZeneka and the Bilateral Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria and the People's Republic of Bangladesh.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u226	Are there any speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u227	No, I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u228	Thank you. We're closing the debate. Please vote on the name of the bill. They voted 122 MPs: for 122, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Report to Art. One, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u229	Art. 1. Ratifying the Tripartite Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneca, between the Republic of Bulgaria, the People's Republic of Bangladesh and AstraZeneca, signed by the Republic of Bulgaria on 3 September 2021, by the People's Republic of Bangladesh on 31 August 2021 and by AstraZeneca on 2 September 2021, and the Bilateral Agreement on the donation of vaccines against COVID-19 produced by AstraZeneka, between the Republic of Bulgaria and the People's Republic of Bangladesh, signed by the Republic of Bulgaria on 3 September 2021 and by the People's Republic of Bangladesh on 31 August 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u230	Report and art. 2, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u231	Art. 2. Orders on grounds of art. 25, para. 2 of the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria the agreements under art. 1 shall not be promulgated in the Official Journal
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u232	Thank you. Are there any statements on these texts? I won't. I'm calling off the debate, moving on to the vote. Please vote art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2 as proposed by the importer. They voted 124 MPs: 124, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been passed, and with this, the entire bill. [[Applause.]] Let's move on to the next point: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR JUSTICE. Importers - Hristo Ivanov and a group of MPs. Mr. Mikhailov, please present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u233	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary submitted by Hristo Lubomirov Ivanov and a group of MPs At its meetings held on 10 and 13 September 2021, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 46-154-01-8, submitted by the National Representative Hristo Lubomirov Ivanov and a group of MPs on 21 July 2021. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Ivan Demerdzhiev, Deputy Minister of Service, Mrs. Emilia Alexandrova, Mrs. Maria Georgieva and Mrs. Alexander Stefanov, State experts in the Directorate of the Ministry of Justice and by the Supreme Judicial Council: Mr. Boyan Magdalinchev and Mrs. Atanaska Disheva and Mr. Dragomir Kojikov, Members of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria: Mr. Ivan Geshev, Prosecutor General, Mrs. Daniela Masheva and Mrs. Plamena Tsvetanov, Deputy Deputy Prosecutor of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office for Cassation at the Supreme Prosecutor's Office; Mr. Georgi Ushev, Chairman; from the Special Criminal Court: Mrs. Marieta Rajkova President, and from the Supreme Council: Mrs. Valya Guigova and Mrs. Ina Lulcheva, Vice-Presidents. The draft was presented by the MP Atanas Slavov, who pointed out that in accordance with the European recommendations and standards guarantees of independence are being established in the exercise of the powers of the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council by changing the necessary majority for decision-making. He clarified that, according to the recommendations of the European Commission for Democracy by law, the texts on the necessary majority in the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council when adopting a decision to elect Presidents of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Supreme Administrative Court of Justice and added that such a decision would require the support of not less than 17 votes and a majority of the members elected directly by the Judges. The MP noted that this approach was proposed in carrying out the powers of judges and prosecutors. Mr. Slavov outlined the need for legislative changes, referring to assessments, reports and opinions of the European institutions in the area of rule of law, and added that in order to strengthen the independence of the supreme courts, it is proposed that candidates for presidents elected by the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council be members of the plenarys of the supreme courts at least 5 years before the conduct of the electoral procedure. The People's Representative added that the draft law proposes the closure of the Specialized Criminal Court, the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court and the specialized prosecutors concerned, specifying that structural and organisational changes are intended to ensure the constitutional principle of independence of the judiciary. The proposals were motivated by the importer, who summarized that for the ten-year period of their action, specialised criminal courts and the relevant prosecutors did not justify the expectations set by their creation, while gradually extending their competence without an impact assessment over the past period. The MP noted that specialized justice is defined as unjustified interference with the existing institutional structure of the courts and creates additional risks to the independence of the judiciary. The bill proposes dropping the preliminary checks carried out by the prosecution and focusing the prosecution's activities on its functions in the criminal process. It also lays down provisions governing the personnel status of judges and prosecutors in accordance with the proposed changes and those directly arising from the changed substantive legal framework. Under the Law a public discussion has been held under the order of art. 25, para. 2 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly and received opinions from the Specialized Criminal Court, the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court, the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry of Justice said they maintained the written opinion and pointed out that the legislative initiative is timely and responds to public attitudes for the closure of specialized courts and prosecutors. During the public discussion, the Minister of Justice expressed the ministry's position that specialized justice should be there, but added that it should be reformed and suggested the possibility to set up specialized wards for district courts in appeals areas by supporting the idea of limiting the functions of the prosecution outside criminal proceedings. The Minister of Justice pointed out that the Institute for Preliminary Verification was not suitable for our legal system by expressing reservations about the proposed arrangements of the posting. He noted the need to refine the transitional provisions in order to ensure the completion of the proceedings already in place and not to undermine the status of magistrates and their independence, paying attention to the need to improve the texts on changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Specialized Criminal Court and the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court adopted an opinion on the draft Law. The opinion shows that the closure of the two specialised courts would constitute a retreat from the commitments made by our country as a member of the European Union to our European partners and would create chaos in the Bulgarian judiciary. Details of the evaluations given over the years have been detailed by the European Commission on the activities of specialised courts and the results of their activities. Mr. Ushev added that the Bill does not contain precise rules to ensure the completion of the pending cases, and clarified that its adoption would lead to the termination of proceedings because of the principle of intransigence of the formation. The proposed provisions on the status of magistrates, the selection procedure, the start of competition and the conviction in the transfer of cases were specifically addressed. Mr. Magdalinchev disagreed with the proposed addition of a secondary majority of the members elected directly by the judges to the minimum of 17 votes in force in the adoption of a decision to elect presidents of the Supreme Courts. He clarified that the members of the judges' quota in the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council were six, of which two had resigned. It was added that the procedure thus signed cannot be really implemented with the participation of four members of the court's quota and will block the upcoming election of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation. As regards the intended reimbursement of magistrates from the closed specialised bodies to a position they held prior to the appointment, he indicated that this procedure was a reduction in office and was permissible only in the case of disciplinary punishment. The Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria said they do not support the bill and maintain their written opinion. Mr. Geshev added that the courts and prosecution are not exceptional, referring to the practice of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria. It disagreed with the reasoning and allegations of the lack of effectiveness of the activities of the specialised bodies. Reserves were expressed regarding specific proposals in the Code of Criminal Procedure and, above all, the possibility of the above-mentioned prosecutor to influence the internal conviction of his subordinate prosecutors, the conviction of proceedings and the status of the posting. The prosecutors agree that the support of the Bill represents a major retreat from what has been achieved as a result of the long-standing efforts under the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism and represents a regression in the fight against organised crime. The Attorney General added that there will be numerous disputes about the court-martial, the closure of the cases and their consideration within a reasonable period of time. The representatives of the Supreme Council of Laws expressed support for the bill during the public discussion. The discussion was attended by the MPs Andrey Mihailov, Radostin Vassilev, Atanas Slavov, Nadezhda Yordanova, Todor Baychev, Yavor Bojankov, Filip Popov, Maya Manolova, Meglena Guncheva, Alexander Nikolov, Desislava Atanasova, Anna Alexandrova and Ekaterina Zaharieva. Mrs. Manolova and Mrs. Guncheva pointed out that the legislative initiative will meet the public expectations for the closure of specialized courts and prosecutions and said that from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian National Assembly! We're coming!...they're going to support the bill. From the parliamentary group of "Democratic Bulgaria" they thanked for the opinions and the willingness of the institutions to refine the texts. Mrs. Yordanova explained that there are no convincing results from the previous activities of the specialized bodies and added that three-quarters of the cases on these otherwise serious crimes end in prison sentences up to three years. Mr. Slavov pointed out that proposals were drawn up together with the Ministry of Justice to reflect the opinions expressed and to refine the texts in order to ensure the efficient work of the judicial authorities. From the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, they said that they support the draft law in principle and expressed the need to adopt provisions to ensure the effective work of the court and prosecutor's office. Mr. Nikolov pointed out that the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS will not support the draft law. Mrs Zaharieva added that the proposals are not precise and there is no in-depth analysis of the benefits and consequences of their adoption. The President of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs Mr. Andrey Mihailov thanked for the participation in the meeting and added that from the parliamentary group of Honourable Members, as a result of the discussion held the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs with 11 votes for.......... without...........................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u234	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. I'm opening the debate. Come in, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u235	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! The Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Judiciary, I dare say, is the longest draft in the last six months. It was introduced at the beginning of the 45th National Assembly, and at the beginning of the 46th National Assembly a series of public discussions, institutions' opinions, repeated attempts by the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs to reach its first vote. The fact is that this bill has still received support from the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. What do we offer basically? First of all, to meet the requirements of the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe, the recommendations made for Bulgaria regarding the independence of the Supreme Judicial Council and the chamber decisions in the judiciary. Until we have implemented the recommendation that we have a majority in the Supreme Judicial Council and in the Judicial College, which consists of judges elected directly by judges, is proposed a temporary solution, but only possible in the current constitutional structure, namely the introduction of the so-called double majority. The decisions for the election of the two Presidents of the VCC and of the SAC and on the affairs of judges shall be taken by a majority of all votes and a majority of judges directly elected by judges, i.e. members of the professional judicial quota, shall also support such a decision. Secondly, we propose that the election of the Presidents of the Supreme Court of Cassation and of the Supreme Administrative Court be carried out only between magistrates who are members of the plenary of the relevant courts at least five years before the date of the election. This will end the practice that we have in previous formats, fully external to the relevant court and judicial system individuals to head the two supreme courts. The second group of substantial changes that we propose are linked to the abolition of specialised justice in this form for several reasons. First, there is no doubt in much of the Bulgarian society that specialized justice in the last 10 years has established itself as a political repression body, a motivated repression against politically uncomfortable and business opponents. The very story of the creation of specialized justice was related to the name of a former Interior Minister, who even his own parliamentary group and party had already excluded him, Mr. Tsvetanov, who became known first of all for police operations, which bore the names of judges or various other interesting names and who sent him to the fight against the mafia in Italy. In 10 years, specialized justice has not achieved a single significant success. None of the key cases, such as the CCB case, have ended, much of the other cases remain without final sentences. Moreover, considering the reports of the specialised courts, we see that below 3% are criminal cases of a general nature. The largest share of the special intelligence resources is the requests given by these courts. And here I have to say very clearly: the permissions given for the eavesdropping of protesters citizens last year, to dozens and hundreds of Bulgarian citizens are permissions at the request of the Special Prosecutor's Office authorised by the Specialized Criminal Court. Greater evidence of the political commitment of these institutions, which should be part of the independent judiciary, is unlikely to be found. Another essential part of the powers of those authorities is the ruling on measures of procedural coercion. That is to say, the cumulative assessment that we make of these facts is a necessity for substantial reform, a return to common criminal jurisdiction and the dropping of this repressive system on its substance, which served mostly the previous authority. In the third part of the bill, we propose a limitation of the role of the prosecution outside the criminal process, namely dropping the so-called prosecutorial checks, which are a remnant of a previous totalitarian period in essence, which enabled the prosecution to intervene in all areas of public life, and on the recommendation of the Venice Commission such a type of extra-trial coercion outside the control of the courts which the prosecution carries out cannot be maintained. Finally, I would like to say that specialized justice, our exemption from specialised justice in this form, will be a step forward in defending the rule of law and the rule of law. I must point out that during the meetings of the Legal Committee it was very clear who was standing where. Everyone from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria, there is such a people. We are coming! " and BSP voted in favour of the closure of specialized justice and also consistently GERB and DPS did their best to prevent the meetings of the Legal Commission, or to directly oppose the proposals made. Dear Members of Parliament, I hope that the bill will receive support in the first vote, because this is an important and symbolic indication to the Bulgarian society whether we want to follow the path of the Constitution and the rule of law, or on the contrary, we want to continue as we have so far. Thank you. [[Applause from ICN, DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u236	Thank you, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u237	Madam President, do not allow such blatant lies to be said from this platform, because, to be here today, this bill, Mr. Slavov, the reason this bill is supported, is because of a meeting of the Legal Committee, I and my colleague Cezzo Enchev. We made the quorum in order to make it possible for the meeting of the Legal Commission "The Colleague Mihailov is here, I think he will confirm because you didn't have a quorum, this law is being seen today thanks to us. So please, Madam President, when you hear lies, intervene immediately.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u238	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Wasn't that just a procedure? [[Reply from MP Hamid Hamid.]] Here's your speech, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u239	Madam President, honourable Members! Unfortunately, the Law on the Judiciary with the closure of specialized courts and the prosecution will be adopted only at first reading by this Parliament. For the second time by the second parliament, the closure of the special courts and prosecutions will only pass at first reading. It is obvious and we are all witnessing how the resistance to the adoption of this law and the first steps of the judicial reform in this Parliament were enormous, despite the expectation of Bulgarian citizens, despite the public data on the fact that the specialized courts and prosecutors have seriously deviated from the objectives for which they were created. I refer to the public reports on the activities of the courts, including the Specialized Criminal Court and the Prosecutor's Office, including in the report of the Minister of Justice Yanaki Stoilov, in the report of the National Ombudsman as a national preventive mechanism. From the data contained in them, the conclusion can be drawn about a serious diversion from the purpose of specialised justice, namely the fight against corruption on the high levels of power and organised crime, and the staggering in the work of these courts towards the implementation of repressions, mainly with regard to uncomfortable persons. Why can these conclusions be drawn based on public information? First of all, the ratio between the convictions and the acquittal sentences that are pronounced in the Specialized Criminal Court and in the Appeals Court. Secondly, the ratios between the agreements concluded and the sentences delivered. For the year 2020, only 122 cases were closed, and only 45 of them with convictions. Because of the severity of the penalties imposed, more than half of the convicted persons are in prison for up to three years. In particular, the ratio between cases of a general nature and those of a private nature, such as, for 2020, note, of a general nature criminal cases were formed in the Specialized Criminal Court only 174. 174 criminal cases of general nature against 6244 such of a private nature, among which the requests under the Special Intelligence Act are expected to prevail; 2992 requests for the application of special intelligence means against an even greater number than the previous year. That is to say, the accompanying criminal proceedings - measures of repression - prevail over the actual work on general criminal matters in specialized courts. In fact, statistics show that since 2017, requests for implementation of the SRS are over 14 thousand or more precisely 14 066, of which nearly 12 thousand have been authorised. Or in the Specialized Criminal Court in 85% of cases where the Special Prosecutor's Office requests the application of special intelligence means, the court shall authorise. The special prosecutor wants, the Specialized Criminal Court allows. In fact, the ratio of the permitted SRS from the other district courts shows, for example, that in Sofia City Court the permitted requests, in fact the authorised application of the SRS is in 83% of the cases, and in the Varna District Court is below 60%, 55% of the requests are met. I can't help but recall the scandalous authorisation to apply special intelligence funds against dozens of protesting citizens from the summer protests. I do not know if this will be the subject of Mr. Hadjigenov's report, but anyway we have public information that makes it clear how the Specialized Prosecutor's Office wants the Specialized Criminal Court against dozens of civil society activists, peaceful protesters, against the civil team of. 95 of the Penal Code, mutiny, coup, armed uprising and how the Special Court, without checking the merits of these requests, has authorised and for months civil activists and protesters citizens have been subject to the application of the SRS, of wiretapping, monitoring and other means. As a result, it is not surprising that the cases in the Strasbourg Court are growing against the actions of the specialized courts and prosecution as under art. 5 of the Convention on Human Rights... the right to freedom and privacy, as well as under art. 8 For the implementation and abuse of special intelligence means, because the understanding of legal authorisation of special intelligence means without motives, without verification of facts and evidence is in practice a violation of art. 8 of the Convention on Human Rights. That is also the caselaw of the Strasbourg Court. In fact, the fact that only a dozen pending cases can be seen on the Court's website is only the tip of the iceberg, because the period for communicating with the institutions of cases in Strasbourg, of complaints in Strasbourg lasts four or five years, so that the avalanche of cases and judgments will inevitably flood Bulgaria and we will pay additional money because of limited civil rights. If we look at the statistics and the registers of the Sofia City Court and the other courts, it can be seen that only in front of the Sofia City Court under the Zodov Art. 2b of the Zodov, because of the actions of the specialized criminal courts and the prosecution, 232 cases have been brought and under art. 60a of the Law on the Judicial Tribunal with complaints about excessive length of criminal proceedings, there are pending proceedings, or at least this is visible from the registers, 37 applications. All this will lead to sanctions, including material sanctions against the Bulgarian state because of the activities of specialized courts and prosecutors. The fact is that they become a comfortable bat of power against uncomfortable citizens, including peaceful protesters. It is also a fact that the Bill this time offers better solutions than the Project, which was adopted at first reading in the Law Commission of the previous Parliament, regarding the conviction of cases in specialized courts, and regarding the personnel status of magistrates, it is important how they will be settled. There is also a proposal from the Minister of Justice, which, by my judgment, is not as good as the importers from the "Democratic Bulgaria" proposed, but, unfortunately, these opportunities will remain only subject to theoretical disputes because due to the closing life of the forty-sixth Parliament this extremely important bill will not be passed definitively in the second vote. However, I expect that there will be a majority that will adopt the amendments to the Law on the Judiciary and the closing of the special courts and prosecutions, which will be a clear sign to the Bulgarian citizens that it is possible a majority to carry out a real judicial reform. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u240	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Bojankov for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u241	Madam President, honourable Members! We will support the bill. Our consistent position, however, which has not been formed konjuncturally because of protests, because of the expectations of other groups or other factors, is a position formed in the creation of the specialized courts themselves a position of BSP, which we have defended in previous parliaments. We have always warned that such specialization is dangerous and will lead to protests and repression. We have always warned that the principles of posting and bonuses all of this put together a repressive machine and now we see its logical end. We have always opposed, so our position is absolutely logical and has always been that way. We will support this bill. Personally, I and with a single person, because as a MP, I have always fought against last-minute legislation, legislation that is not sufficiently discussed. It has been seen that the underwater stones and problems in this bill are extremely and extremely complex, but we are still in a hurry. What's the hurry? Because there's no... For one thing, GERB is right that there is no governance, there is no majority to implement a reform, and we are pressed by the deadlines we had to do all this quickly with the remark that this legislation is not done. However, I confirm the position and the election commitment to our voters on our platform that we will support the bill. But I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Members: why is there no judicial reform after all? Since this was also the subject in the previous draft law of the Bureau of Defense, this is obviously the subject now. Twice in a row there is a majority, twice in a row enough parliamentary groups declare a desire to solve once and for all the case with the special justice, which is a significant part of the judicial reform, and twice this does not happen. I do not know how sincere the importing colleagues are, and how much do they use this topic electionally?! They're more sincere, but they also use it pre-electionally. This nail victory with the Bureau of Defense is actually no victory at all. This was the important topic, but this important topic did not come to the vote. It didn't reach because everything else was a priority for the Committees in office, committees for different areas on the Black Sea coast. This topic, however, nearly two months later found a place in the Legal Commission, and a separate topic is when the committees were created. I mean, if this was a very high priority, maybe it should be the number one theme, but it wasn't. We therefore made an appeal to talk about a mandate of six months, one year, with reform priorities, if you will, about the very retention of the mandate, what time is needed and how long it will take to hold this term in order for reform to take place. All the talks have been denied us and now at the last moment, in the last minutes of this National Assembly, we are looking at the so important for all citizens and protesting judicial reform, which obviously will not happen because we have not passed it at first reading. This is the big failure and, in fact, this may be the error of a large part of the political forces, including the importers, that they used too much theme for election purposes. And being aware that it would not happen in this Parliament, they began to seek culprits, including in the face of other parliamentary groups, who had no responsibility and no guilt that this bill would not happen. There's gotta be somebody to blame, right?! You should go out in an election campaign to say that there will be no judicial reform, but we are protecting the people of Gesev, we want judicial reform, but other villains do not want it?! You have to be guilty of this job, because otherwise you have to admit that this job was the second time you failed to do it, and basically you brought it on yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u242	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Are there any lines? I won't. To speak, Ivo Atanasov. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u243	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! From our parliamentary group, we will support the bill for the following reasons: the protests last year were not about pensions, social benefits, electricity prices, water prices. The protests were with one main request: Borisov's resignation, Geshev's resignation and judicial reform. The protesters wanted the break-up of the model Borisov "Speevski" "Dogan," and the guardian of the Mafia Geshev. This model cannot be broken down without judicial reform. There is such a people in the party's programme.The judicial reform stands first in the case of the specialized courts and the special prosecutor's office as bats of power are the main ones for this reform to be launched. Since many are speaking here, this reform could not be carried out because of the fault of the Democratic Bulgaria. We were ready for this judicial reform with the party's agenda, which clearly answered the three questions: what should be done, how should it be done, and in what order should it be carried out in order to transform the Supreme Judicial Council, to remove Prosecutor General Gesev and to close the specialized courts and specialized prosecutors accordingly? During the working meetings that we held, from the "Democratic Bulgaria" they agreed with our program in the "Justice" and "Judicial Reform" with some clarification on which we did not have an obstacle to reach agreement, but they were not consistent and sincere in these intentions. Get up! Get up! Get up! I don't want to comment, because there are three contradictions "Hadjigenov" is of one opinion, Maya Manolova on the second, Toteva on the third and says: "Let's get along so that Tatiana or Maya doesn't come because we won't understand each other." They didn't have a project, they didn't have steps to carry out judicial reform. Everything else is one talk that they do in front of the people and the citizens who participated in the protest. It must be stated clearly and categorically: with the creation of the inability to form a government, for which it is exclusively the fault of Hristo Ivanov, of We are coming! The thirst for power, the thirst for money, the financial dependence on their benefactors made it impossible for judicial reform to take place. That's why it's their fault. I hope that the next Parliament will be able to reach consensus, to limit its dependence on its financial benefactors and to focus on judicial reform, which will benefit people and fulfill what we have promised citizens. [[Heckling]] I see Hadjigenov's discontent, I didn't go in paid protests. Representatives of our party were at the protests 150 days last year when the protesters wanted to beat Toteva and asked her: what is she doing at the protests and for what reform is it? And what we promise will be fulfilled in front of our constituents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u244	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. For the first line? Here you are, Mr. Hadjigenov. Shall we increase your time because Mrs. Manolova spends all the time on the group?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u245	Thank you very much, Mrs. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Apparently, some of the people there were at a protest. If it was our protest, the one we were all on, and they were watching on TV and it was paid, it's interesting. If you had your own protest and it wasn't paid, it's also interesting. That's what happens when you watch the protests on TV. [[Noise and lines.]] By the way, I see that it is very funny to you, all the power of the state in the face of GERB, the Ministry of Interior, DANS has made aggressive attempts to prove financial benefactors. I didn't remember your name, I'm sorry, and you were an unsuccessful candidate for a justice minister. They didn't make it either. They didn't make it. They tried to make that up, and they couldn't prove it. Your pathetic pushes on you and on a member of the DPS, who has been standing all day today on the Ambrazor, that you've fallen below it, to prove that we have financial benefactors abroad, are pathetic. You're pathetic because the whole government machine couldn't prove it. All of it! And they tried not like you, they tried. This is the reason why I didn't remember your name and perhaps there is a reason why you didn't succeed. And yes, we've all failed together in this whole thing. You wouldn't know, but we have a program. Especially then I will ask, perhaps Mr. Vassilev: who the hell is Mrs. Toteva because we do not have such a person in the group? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u246	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u247	Dear colleagues! I expected that we would be able to complete Parliament with good news that, in the end, despite all the differences, disputes, disagreements, conflicts, we have found some common things that we can put as a common denominator. But we'll finish Parliament with two good news instead of one. I observe that what the previous speaker said and what Bojankov said was the main enemy is the Democratic Bulgaria. It's her fault! In fact, the judicial reform was invented by the "There is such a people" by the BSP, and we have used it pre-electionly and the poor could not vote for us. That's good, because ultimately, judicial reform is becoming a topic that everyone wants to take on. People know who's worked for judicial reform since, how much and so on. But that's not the point right now. The important thing is that we all recognize in this topic something that is so important that we want to pull it off, maybe even a little bit of a fight, maybe it's not very wise to argue about it, to get a little bit of a guilty bastard running away. After all, while I was listening to all this, all these morals from Mr. Bojankov are completely unnecessary. From all of this, Hristo Ivanov is guilty, I realized that we have actually come to the point where everyone wants this judicial reform for themselves. That's great, guys! So we've got two good news. We all want it. Use it in the campaign more, Mr. Bojankov. Get Mrs. Ninova to talk more about her, and especially about a deep constitutional reform of the state's attorney's status, that will also be very good news. I would be very happy in the next parliament to really have a chance together to do something useful, regardless of any fairy tales that we may have exchanged. And just so you know, because Mr. Yordanov has come back: every time you say that Hristo Ivanov is personally guilty of not accepting the government that you propose, you give me advertising and thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u248	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Third line? Here you are, Mr. Babikan, for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u249	Madam President, honourable Members! I notice that a year and maybe more than a year and two months we continue to deal with the protests. I don't know why in every parliamentary group, no matter how high-quality people it is, there's always one person who really wants to be Ivan Geshev. It's not gonna work. It is unique and irreplaceable, it shines upon all of us like the sun and air, as in your time warmed the Soviet Union. Remember? Bulgaria couldn't have been anything else without the base sun and air.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u250	Far away.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u251	I'll get closer, Mr. Hamid. In each parliamentary group there may be one hidden member of the DPS, which is an advertisement for the DPS. Isn't that right, Mr. Hamid, I've come to you? There is one in each parliamentary group. And who pays and whether it's all the way abroad is a question that will be made clear. Maybe it's closer to parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u252	Thank you, Mr. Babikan. Here you are for the doppelganger, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u253	The wish of a Democratic Bulgaria and of a stand up BG! Their desire is not for the change of the model Borisov "Peevski" "Dogan" and the guardian of the Mafia Geshev. They are on the principle of sitting down. We will support this project at first reading, although this project at the very beginning was made either by Mr. Slavov's students in the exercises, or by Mr. Ivanov on the principle of judicial reform, which he started as Deputy Prime Minister of Borisov and Minister of Justice. An extremely bad project, but it is a start, a statement that judicial reform is necessary. We don't depend on what you have. We will continue and the judicial reform will be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u254	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Mrs. Manolova, what's your question? [[Radio, laughter.]] Here's a personal explanation, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u255	Madam President, honourable Members! It is a good thing that the meetings of the parliamentary committees are public and the Bulgarian citizens were able to see who thwarted the quorum, who suspended the meetings. In fact, the last session at which the Law on the Judiciary was passed at the first vote was interrupted five times in which they participated, and all Bulgarian citizens saw which ones. The President of the Legal Commission has been dragging out the conduct and voting of the Law on the Judiciary for literally weeks. Everyone understood and saw who refused to schedule a meeting of parliament with the representatives of the Bulgarian Democratic Republic. We are coming! and some of the IHN points related to judicial reform. Everyone saw who thwarted both left and there is such a people. Thus, the request for judicial reform for these people became simply a mask and an election slogan, and the first political force in this Parliament turned out to be the..............................I wanted judicial reform very much, but I did not want to................................... This is why it was not held because the management made the committees on August 16th, because the President of the Legal Committee also from "There is such a people"...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u256	Mrs. Manolova, this is getting out of the...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u257	...was the finalisation of the meeting and we reached a vote in the second parliament at the first reading of the closure of the special courts. Because there is such a people that many wanted judicial reform, but they did not want to. [[Applause from IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u258	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u259	Dear Mrs. Chairman, honourable Members! As a lawyer, I've always been... To put the debate back where it belongs in the Bill. As a lawyer, I've always tried to protect the law from specialized institutions in any form. I do not want to do an analysis of the work of the institutions that are proposed to be closed. But I can't help but say that in this National Assembly we are reforming by closing whatever we are reforming, we are shutting it down immediately. Perhaps there are things that need to be cleared of these texts, and I will dwell on several of them. It is evident that with the majority that are formed, the situation created at the moment is hardly possible. I see that the prosecutor is suggested to be able to interfere with the internal belief of others. In general, some texts are being proposed, which will probably also lead to a crisis in the judiciary. I'm a long way from knowing who and what is to blame and how the relationship between you happened. But again, because of the truth, we will make our proposals between first and second readings. [[Elevator bell dings]] to be this text improved. For the sake of truth, let's say that having this debate here is because of the fact that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is here and this bill is here. The other truth that should be known is that one part of the cases currently in court will be returned to district courts depending on the conviction. They're about to start a dispute about a conviction that's likely to go on for years. Honourable Members, these cases will end on limitation, without any convictions. I leave it to you and the people who are watching and listening to us to decide who's interested in this? Certain people who are currently indicted will remain at large and their deeds will not end!? I'm not saying how they're gonna end, but I'm saying they might not end. We still have to look for the truth somewhere, but she's as naked as she is, always coming out, and I'm sure this time it'll become clear who was fighting for what the amendment and the addition to this law. What do we do by shutting down these institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u260	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. First line, Mr. Hadjigenov, you have 11 seconds per group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u261	That's enough, Madam President. Thank you. The issue of limitation and closing cases will be extremely brief. The statute of limitations on cases charged with specialized criminal courts varies between 15 and 35 years. I mean, Mr. Enchev, that's humorous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u262	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. Second line, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u263	Madam President, colleagues! Dear Mr. Enchev, since you raised the question of what could be improved in the bill, I would be very happy if the DPS would go so far as to support the bill, because this is the quality change. I will say this: during the public discussion and during the discussions in the Legal Committee, many positive opinions were heard, including proposals that would improve the bill. In this regard, the Ministry of Justice and I held several workshops in which we were even prepared to propose, as a result of these meetings, texts between first and second readings to comply with both the opinion of the Ministry of Justice and some of the discussions that were held in the context of public discussion. These proposals would be in several directions. First, as regards the status of magistrates, it must be assured that there is no doubt about the status of magistrates in both courts. Secondly, as regards the closure of the cases, there should be sufficient reasonable time to close the cases before their transfer to the common courts. Thirdly, dropping those texts, which should perhaps be the subject of a much more serious legislative reform and regarding the powers of the prosecution that you mentioned. I would just like to point out that the Justice Department has received principled support. This, I must also point out in relation to what my colleague Atanasov said. The bill is cooked with the participation of the best penalists in Bulgaria. Free exercise on this subject, I hope there can't be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u264	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Third line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u265	Mrs. Chairman! I want to say one thing. First of all, I have one question under art. 144: Has Mr. Hadjigenov expressed a private interest to ask for the closure of the specialized courts and the special prosecutor's office? Secondly, in terms of these protests, I have never gone to protests to recruit clients who then lie. I've been to a lot of protests, I've been to a lot of protests, I've been to the cases of people involved in these protests for free. I have not had a single lost case so far and have all been resolved in favour of the citizens and not in favour of the administrative authorities. Thank you. [[Private applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u266	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. A hole? I won't. Here's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u267	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have one question that I would rather ask myself and perhaps the leadership of the party.There is such a people: well, candidates for justice ministers should not have at least a simple idea of law? What the hell does a private interest in the Special Courts mean? I mean, I have my own private courthouse!? Private courts are arbitration, not a specialised criminal court.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u268	You have customers.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u269	Yeah, we lawyers, especially the lawyers, make a living where in the courts, which makes it a conflict of interest or how does it make it a private interest? I know I speak relatively slowly, not slowly enough to understand. That's as low as I can go. I can't get any lower than that. Here, a few lawyers who have heard that there are such buildings as the Court of Justice are trying hard, precisely on the subject of specialized courts to say that we court lawyers have some interest. Well, why didn't one of you at least try to explain what interest we have in closing the courts? I know it's incomprehensible to most of you, but these cases don't end with specialized courts. That's what I said 20 times in the discussion. On the contrary, they continue, and if the prosecution has done its job properly, they will have convictions someday. I'll say it again especially for you particularly slowly: the statute of limitations in these cases is between 15 and 35 years old. So, let's get somebody to explain to me again exactly what kind of private interest I have with my fellow lawyers who, unfortunately, aren't much in this room since the closure of the Special Courts? Or this action is quite simply in the interest of justice, because the special courts are a failure of 10 years of failure, a 10-year instrument for inquisition, torture and they have no positive results. Not one! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u270	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. Here you are, Mrs. Zaykova, for your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u271	Madam President, honourable Members, fellow Members of the Forty-sixth Parliament! Is there a judicial reform? No. I won't! Whose fault is it? All of them, absolutely all of them, because if we really wanted to have judicial reform, it would be a fact, of course, everyone with their views. The parties of the status quo are comfortable with them, specialized courts are comfortable with them, everything is perfect. They were just trying to slow things down so we didn't get to the law. Is that right? That's right! We, the three parties of change, have we been able to agree? What did you do to keep us apart so we couldn't get along? What was more important: to have judicial reform in Bulgaria not only because justice must prevail, but because, ladies and gentlemen, without judicial reform there will be no recovery and development plan? She's the most important one! Without judicial reform, the European Commission will think about what to do with us - whether we really should be members of the European Union - whether we should really receive money from Europe. You think about what Bulgaria loses without judicial reform? And that is why I want to draw your attention to us all, we are guilty, each in their own quality, and there is no point in blaming each other now. I hope that many of you will also be MPs in the Forty-Seventh Parliament. I hope that in the forty-seventh Parliament Bulgaria and its interests will be above everything, and without judicial reform we will not be able to solve many important problems. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u272	Thank you, Mrs. Zaykova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u273	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today's debate very clearly illustrates the many layers on which it is conducted, and this has been for several years now, naturally. I will not be one of those who points the finger at what happened and who was guilty, who slowed down and I cannot reprimand the people who are doing it, but I can give my respect to these MPs and especially to the members of the Legal Committee, who, despite this atmosphere, have tried and, to a large extent, managed to move the issue forward, because yes, it will not be completed in this Parliament, but it has been moving forward. And I will try to explain very briefly how and why? The political context is clear, it will be validated or changed very soon, but in the legal aspect and in the technical aspect several important things have happened. I ask you all to understand, as well as those who look at us, that regardless of pompous phrases and insolences in one direction or another, the closure of such a type of institution is not an easy job. Moreover, this is a very responsible job, because it should not be allowed to create prerequisites for refusing justice at any of these moments, as well as for anyone to go unpunished. And that's what the Bill importers had in mind from the very beginning, and so did we. Specialized justice and its institutions, which offered it, were born as a very simple idea, which the Bulgarian society adopted, namely, given the size of organized crime in Bulgaria, it should be drawn to the center of Sofia so that it would not be influenced locally by these strong structures that could influence smaller courts. In time, however, this simple idea has become complicated, I would say freaks. It was charged with new and new powers, new and new meanings, and it became a court to judge power, only instead of a court to judge power, it became a court of power itself. Instead of an institution that has to cross organised crime, it has proved to be an institution that is unable to cross this crime with the very legitimate political power itself. This is a very difficult problem and very difficult to solve. What happened? A debate was held in the last parliament. As a result, the bill was improved in the public discussion that took place and the debates at first reading in the Commission raised more questions, their possible answers were drawn. We are moving forward, and it is possible for the legislates to pile up one after another very quickly.. Forty-fifth, Forty-sixth, next parliament, but the truth is that this is the time for such a law... six, seven, eight months and no haste can really save the elementary fact that there is no majority that will give Parliament time to do its job. However, I think they deserve congratulations and the Chairman of the Legal Commission, who was under a lot of pressure both in one direction and in the other, and the importers in the face of associate professor Slavov and Nadezhda Yordanova, who carried the Law. What was our role as BSP? We are not going to let you point your finger at us, anyone, because for the entire period we have worked so that we can facilitate dialogue and make decisions. Let's not sweep under the carpet any of the warnings, because for whatever purpose these warnings are made, they may have a reason. First of all, there is no need to start the cases again, and there is no need to find a solution so that they can continue as far as they have come. Secondly, these cases must still be looked at by jurisdictions that will really prevent what the Special Prosecutor's Office was created for, namely not to put them where judges and magistrates, respectively, are not free to look at them. Thirdly, some texts need to be reconsidered, which can influence the internal conviction of magistrates and so on, all the topics that we have discussed both in the Commission and during the working meetings that have been created. We put them on the agenda and tried to make decisions. If we had the opportunity, we would also give specific texts.... we have not stopped working with colleagues from the Legal Committee on this matter. This was the role of BSP not only by this law, but by everything that was happening in the National Assembly in recent months. We cannot hide the fact that no majority has been created. The point is, however, that topics have been raised and they will probably be used in the election campaign. Hopefully, though, we have learned the lesson from how to use them to move forward. And last phrase: specialized justice, as very specialized or unseen in other places and institutions, whose abbreviations here may have been laid out for a long time, have been created in the years for one reason, that no one could find the formula for reforming not the specialized one, but the prosecution itself and this is the big debate. One part of it is being held and will now be voted at first reading, but no one is sure to imagine that the next will be less difficult or less complicated. So I think it is time for us to proceed to a largely symbolic vote, at the first reading of this bill, and each one of us hopefully learned the lessons from what we have succeeded and what we have failed to do. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u274	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Another statement? I can't see. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 46-154-01-8, submitted by Hristo Lubomirov Ivanov and a group of MPs, on 21 July 2021. 130 MPs voted: 130, no opposition and no abstentions. [[Applause from ICN and IBBNI.]] The motion is accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u275	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I am doing a procedure in the manner of conduct so as not to wonder what this is about. This is what we're talking about, Madam President. A few weeks ago, colleague Aleksandar Ivanov and I asked a question to the Minister of Finance: when was the report for the inspection of Rumen Spetzov's company, which all MPs and the Bulgarian society have been waiting for an answer for more than 100 days. After seeing that last Friday there was no way for parliamentary control to take place, as we accepted the budget at second reading, we transformed the issue in writing. The written reply expired yesterday on 14 September. There is no answer from Minister Vassilev so far. We checked it several times in parliamentary control. Unfortunately, it turned out that, at least by noon, such an answer had not been received. I don't know why Mr. Vassilev is trying to hide again whether Mr. Spetzov signed the audit report or not, because if he signed it, we all know what that means. But I, Madam President, ask you to enter into your duties and comply with the provisions of art. 103, para. 4 which states that if a minister does not answer within the legal period of questioning or questioning, he is obliged to appear in person to the National Assembly within 10 days and explain the failure to fulfil his obligations. Since we don't have 10 days, let's at least use today to listen to Mr. Vassilev on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u276	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. I called Minister Vassilev's office at 12:00. They made a commitment to check and get back to me. So far, I have no call from Minister Vassilev's office, why hasn't he responded within the legal deadline that expired yesterday at 6:00? [[Reply from IBGNI.]] From a band? Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u277	From a band! You guys have a band, too? Mrs. Manolova had raised her hand first. If you wish, Mrs. Atanasova, if you'll have her turn... Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u278	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! September 15 - date symbolized for the beginning of the new school year. I therefore take this opportunity to congratulate all teachers, educators and students and to wish them: the teachers' inspiration, the students' perseverance, the parents' more patience, and good luck! But also the date for the end of the Forty-Sixth National Assembly. The expiration date of this National Assembly has expired. Mrs. Zaykova, you have proved to be a bad benefactor for both the forty-fifth and the forty-sixth parliament, because the damage both forty-fifth and forty-sixth parliament will be remembered for a long time. During the short term of the Forty-Sixth National Assembly, Bulgaria was ruled by a caretaker government appointed by Rumen Radev. In these few months, the political crisis has deepened, and the outcome of it is becoming increasingly unclear and more difficult. This finding is important because one of the important tasks in front of the office is that they are actively involved in resolving political crises. The spirit of the current Constitution requires the official governments to calm the political atmosphere, reduce the tensions in society and deal with the current tasks of governance. In this sense, the failed mandate of the Forty-Sixth National Assembly is the responsibility of both the political forces that were present in it and the office, which had no potential to calm political tensions and create an appropriate atmosphere for broadcasting a regular government. The spirit of the Bulgarian Constitution does not involve in any way a government appointed by the President to reform various sectors in public life, to render justice or to build long-term strategies. The latter is only a symptom of hidden intentions to suspend parliamentary power by the President. You can't build long-term visions and management strategies if you're aware of the constitutional fact that you've been ruling with a time horizon of several months. One reason for today's political impasse is precisely the violation of the spirit of the Constitution and Rumen Radev's refusal to comply with any political rules and to assist in the exit from the political crisis. And if, after the elections on April 4th, all parties were positioned against GERB, then after the early parliamentary elections on July 11th, everyone is against everyone and just saw themselves in the plenary. The most repulsive and ugly political scandals within this Parliament have happened precisely between you and the parties of the protest. The latter is also thanks to the intrigues of President Rumen Radev, who instead of helping and creating a dialogue space among those who, before the last elections, declared themselves allies, the presidential institution was turned into the election headquarters of the acting presidential candidate. The resources of the executive power were used actively and purposefully to create engineering political projects to replace you the parties of the protest. While the parties of the protest rejoiced that the caretaker government is disappearing. GERB, you did not understand clearly that it had already begun to disappear and you. However, you will understand it and feel it real soon. One of the factors for the chronic political instability and the short term of the outgoing parliament was the active participation of the Interior Minister Boyko Rashkov. In the election campaign instead of maintaining neutrality and guaranteeing the freedom of choice of Bulgarian citizens, Rashkov used the regional activists and sympathizers of GERB to intimidate them. During the entire election campaign he used his position to campaign against GERB, which is contrary to both the letter and the spirit of the Constitution. Never, ladies and gentlemen, have there been such manipulations of active power in the past 30 years with regard to elections and direct influence on election results. There has never been such a severe attack on the part of the state's power apparatus against a particular party, but we have also endured this pressure and showed that we do not just exist, but we are an insurmountable factor in Bulgarian political life. The experience we have gained in recent months has made us stronger, and thanks to it, we are even more truly aware that the atmosphere of opposition, the burning of bridges between political forces and interinstitutional clashes are at the root of the current political impasse. In order to have stability and tranquility for Bulgarian society, these factors must be replaced by dialogue between parties and institutions and opportunities for partnership at least in solving the important problems facing the country. After throwing all his resources into dealing with GERB and producing his own political projects, Rumen Radev's caretaker government stopped dealing with the current government, which should be his main task. Construction of roads and highways was blocked. Hundreds of workers are on the street, and the regional minister still doesn't know the route of highway and parking. The renewed migrant crisis, which we have warned about since the beginning of the year, has become out of control. Much of the economic, social and health anti-crisis measures were blocked by the ministers. Because of the inactivity and incompetence of the majority of the ministers of the service, vaccination of the population was failed, and the health minister only Chegartashe was a prominent professional. Inflation was dropped, speculation about the sale of electricity was allowed. The latter will have severe reflections on industry and economic environment. Dear colleagues, the bet in the upcoming presidential and early parliamentary elections, which will take place on 14 November, is more than who will win, who will lose and who will have how many seats in the Forty-seventh ordinary National Assembly. The stakes after the early parliamentary elections will be linked to the survival of parliamentary democracy itself, which in recent months has been severely attacked by the acting president. In times of huge challenges facing the country, we are all obliged to protect democracy and pluralism. This can only happen if we realize that it is not the destruction of the political opponent, but the attempt to seek and find points of agreement with it that is at the heart of the democratic system. The disappearance of the political opponent sooner or later leads to the extinction of democracy itself. On behalf of the GERB parliamentary group, I wish success to all political forces in the early parliamentary elections. I wish that in the forty-seventh National Assembly we could find a way to start restoring political dialogue, order and calmness in society and together respond to the challenges facing Bulgaria. God save Bulgaria! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u279	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. [[National Representative Toshko Yordanov wants the floor.]] Mrs. Manolova was before you. [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] All right, here you go, Mr. Yordanov. Apparently in the order of the size of the parliamentary groups. [[Reply from the National Representative Toshko Yordanov.]] Mrs. Manolova granted her right twice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u280	Everyone is making political declarations. I will try to make a brief analysis of what happened and to speak only with facts. This Parliament did not broadcast a government.. fact. Why? Because all the political parties in this room, stand up BG! We are coming!....Democratic Bulgaria, GERB and BSP without DPS, everyone else clearly said that they will not support it........................................ That's why there's no government. All the fairy tales in front of the cameras, as far as the right side of the room is concerned, including BSP, that we have common goals and directions and we have negotiated them, it actually turned out that they didn't matter at all since they wanted personal control over the future government. This personal control was requested by Hristo Ivanov in the presence of four other people in our room. Those are facts. So if someone is personally responsible for why it didn't happen, this is Mr. Hristo Ivanov, who broke the process of government-making. From there on out, the other parties went down on this horo. Secondly, there have been no committees in this Parliament for a long time, and many here are practicing that no laws have been adopted for this reason. Why weren't there any committees? Because the Democratic Bulgaria in the last parliament introduced several amendments to the Rules of the National Assembly, which really blocked it in one month. [[Applause from IHN.]] And I'm going to tell them who the law is to sit for a month to discuss before it gets into committees in the Chamber. And that forced new rules to be made. The new Rules were adopted in this Parliament one month after it began to act. In the meantime, even if we became aliens, we couldn't accept anything because the process was blocked by them in the previous Rules. That's where they go for lawyers who obviously don't think about what they're offering. Secondly, the drama surrounding the extraordinary meeting again showed a severe ignorance of the Rules of Procedure by the Democratic Bulgaria. They made a change in the Rules of Procedure 72 hours after the passing of the second reading, only then to enter the Chamber. You did it, guys! You! It was 24 hours. Then you started blaming everyone else that they didn't want to do anything. Thanks to Mrs. Miteva, who, unlike you, knows the laws, today has a normal, legal meeting and what has to be done has been done. Of course, thanks to President Radev, who acted morally and let this Parliament work another day. But all other stories are lies and hypocrisy. Thirdly, the only things that this Parliament has adopted are an update of the budget and what we did just now with the Geshev Bureau. In other words, the two committees that were actually able to organise themselves at these horrifyingly short paces were the Law and Budget, which I would only like to point out to the Presidents were from the "There is such a people" and if it wasn't for them, it wouldn't have been over. [[Applause from IHN.]] One more fact. This Parliament brought out the so-called Tatiana-donchevtina process by walking in parliamentary groups, attempts to secession people and waving notes on which we do not remember what we wrote. This is the format that worked in these parliaments, and you know it very well. I dare say a reasonable assumption that perhaps in some similar way the Atakas once supported the Oresharski cabinet. To conclude, this is a hypocritical parliament that has become clear to everyone. One thing is said in the couloirs, another is spoken to the board, and quite differently is spoken to the media. There was no such total hypocrisy, i.e. maybe there was, but for the first time, we see it as outsiders. I sincerely hope that the next parliament will be less hypocritical and the so-called parties of change, if we come to our senses in the next parliament, to do what we say in public, and not what we want to put our desires in formulas for failure. Finally, at GERB there are presidential elections, President Radev will win and this is proof that whoever is against you wins. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u281	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Mrs. Manolova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u282	Madam President, honourable Members! First of all, I want the parliamentary group to stand up BG! The first day of school is to greet all first-graders, all students, their families, all teachers and all those who work in the field of education. Because, dear colleagues, education is a holiday and our great hope are precisely the educated and capable children of Bulgaria. So let's wish them good luck in their steps to knowledge! The short life of the 46th Parliament will be judged by its results. Only 26 meetings, but let's note that for 26 parliamentary sittings this Parliament has done more than was done during the management of GERB in Borisov's offices. [[Noise, lines and shouts: "Eee!" by GERB-SDS.]] Because after 12 years the pensions of the elderly were recalculated and after 12 years was increased motherhood it will be BGN 650. support for working women, for providing mothers in crisis situations. The Parliamentary Group of Stand Up BG! We have introduced 30 draft laws and solutions aimed at solving the problems of ordinary people by sectors of services, children's allowances, maternity, the Personal Aid Act that awaits people with disabilities, the Law on private bankruptcy and for collectors who abuse Bulgarian citizens in times of crisis, a bill that will stop the stunt increase in heating prices, water prices, bills that support doctors, medical specialists and reform the health care system. Our ambition was great, but the possibilities were modest. Why? Because the behind-the-scenes and the dependencies did not leave the Bulgarian Parliament because the behind-the-scenes and the dependencies managed to tempt those for whom change is only a mask for which change is only a campaign slogan. But for everyone else, for whom change is a goal, the fight against the mafia, with the goons, with the addictions will continue until their full illumination, to their complete cleansing and disposal. This can be done by action in three directions. First of all, the change, honourable Members, goes through the provision of decent and higher incomes to Bulgarian citizens. However, this Parliament has managed to update the state budget and the budgets of the state social security and the National Health Insurance Fund, so that in the conditions of crisis, on the forthcoming fourth wave of a horse, there will be no pensioner living below the poverty threshold of BGN 420. actually becomes the minimum pension. The pensions of the disabled will also be increased, who are the most vulnerable and the most affected in the context of a crisis. The second year of maternity was also voted, compensation was taken for the business, for the first time serious for self-insuring individuals, for the small and medium-sized companies, which would prevent stunt bankruptcy in the conditions of a pandemic, real support for farmers, for the people in the sector............................... for the municipalities...... for the municipalities.................................. Secondly, the expectation of change is to flow like a powerful ray into the judicial system, to illuminate the dark corners of the behind-the-scenes and into the judicial system. Unfortunately, this National Assembly failed to meet the challenge of making real changes to the judiciary. The only thing we've been able to do is close the Bureau with the Attorney General for Protection and for his security, transferred to the Justice Department. Unfortunately, in the second parliament, the Law on the Judiciary with the closure of specialized courts and prosecution passes only at first reading. In this way, these bats of power will continue to settle accounts with the uncomfortable ones in the coming months. Why? Because the resistance to the real judicial reform in this Parliament was enormous because we really want judicial reform, but we do not want to do it, it becomes a guiding principle of this National Assembly, really as a first political force. Thirdly, the expectation of people is change to bring justice. The growth of electricity prices, steam, water, food and services, fuel prices require resistance because the impact is on ordinary people who are left to deal with the economic crisis and inflation alone. The economic winter will be a difficult and responsible and challenging for politicians to really come to their senses, to stop serving the private economic interests of close firms and instead of the interest of the strong of the day, to protect the interests of ordinary people. Because corruption revelations are truly terrifying, indeed the heads of state companies continue to receive 15 000 monthly wages, while even refusing to report to the National Assembly to answer how public resources are spent. Unfortunately, due to the third vote on the extension of today's plenary day, the Commission's review report will not be presented by the parliamentary platform, waste and abuse will not be lit for millions in companies and in energy and in other sectors. I will just point out that at yesterday's, even yesterday's audit committee, damage of 20 million has been identified. BGN, applied by the capital city "Topplofication" to the citizens of the capital with the purchase of unjustifiedly high prices of greenhouse emission allowances. In the meeting only yesterday, there was a damage caused by the management of another state-owned company, which did not seek a penalty of 22 million. Five hundred thousand. EUR from a contractor because of the delay in the construction of the gas connection with Greece. Gas connection, which, indeed, if implemented in time, would bring benefits to people as a lower price of natural gas, of heating, of electricity. But all this has been wasted and as a result the management of the company in question has received 205 thousand. lv. last year's salary, even refused to come to the audit committee to answer the questions of the MPs. But people expect justice, and it can't go on forever. Its end is near and there will be justice for the prices of heating, electricity, there will be justice for corruption schemes, for the abuses and for those who are on a state feeder already in three offices of GERB. There will also be justice for speculators who are economically threatening Bulgarian households. Honourable Members, the opportunities for forming a government in this term of the National Assembly were wasted by the first three political forces to receive a mandate. In fact, from a party of the status quo, even its voters did not expect to make a cabinet, so the glances were aimed at the formations of change and, of course, at the first political power. She was expected to understand dialogue, compromises, consent...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u283	Your time, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u284	...who must be shown in order to form a government, so I will tell you directly, honourable colleagues from "There is such a people."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u285	Your time, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u286	One minute. The responsibility for failure, the responsibility for not creating a government, the responsibility for unfulfilled judicial reform is for you as the first political force. And now the citizens' hope is aimed at the next National Assembly, in which the formations of change must be regrouped in a way in which to defeat the status quo and backstage, because of the citizens, because of the judicial reform and because of the support they expect in the conditions of an approaching pandemic.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u287	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u288	As they say, the defendant's final word, right? Dear colleagues, I wish I could say a few words to a sender before the campaign started, but she started. However, I will try to stick to my original design and offer you an optimistic theory of what happened in those months. Many adjectives have been said about this Parliament, started an unstoppable finger pointing, discovering who is guilty, yet I say, guilty disincentives run away, but I think we should try to offer our voters and a more optimistic version of what is happening to us, not just to us here in this room, but also to us as a political community. Bulgaria, I mean. My optimistic theory is that a very important transformation is taking place. This very important transformation cannot happen quickly, cannot happen once, cannot happen linearly, cannot happen orderly, cannot happen planned, cannot happen organized so as to fit into a clear parliamentary cycle. Obviously, it imposes such shocks, a few laundry releases, let's put it this way, in the popular vote. However, this transformation is very important and it is nice beyond chaos, attacks, discontent and so on to see this process, to understand it, to articulate it, to call it, I will give my version, everyone is, of course, free to have their own, because this makes sense of the process and allows us to move it forward. What's going on? The central issue of this crisis, why this crisis exists, is the question of how the power is implemented in Bulgaria, in whose interest, in whose name, in what way, the technology of power. And, by the way, this is what both Parliaments have stumbled into, at many levels, from the Rules to the Committees, through legislation, through applications, non-appearances, through the formation of governance, the technology of power. We turned out that we couldn't even have a meeting without then going on to tell the media what was said at this meeting, to become a compromise, the very fact that there was a meeting, or to become part of a campaign. We do not agree with each other even on the most basic format in which dialogue is to be held. These things are not self-target, they are very important because today is as much the last day of this parliament as the first day of the next parliament. And what we will be able to think about from what we did and didn't do here, now, today, will be important not just to close this page, but how we open the next page. The technology of power, and that is a very minor issue, because power is something very challenging for human beings, power is perhaps the greatest challenge that a person faces, at least from my experience, it seems to me so. And from this point of view, the entire Western civilization has devoted itself to this poisonous, dangerous substance that breaks down human beings, right, because in Latin corruption it means decay, decay, moral, before financial aspects, before the abuse of funds, moral decay. This decay is a direct consequence of the careless, unsatisfied exposure to radiation, the dangerous radiation of power. So, the whole development of Western civilization is linked to building such procedures, processes in which institutions in which the authority to dose and expose its individual carriers to dose themselves so that the impact on them is not too much mandate, transparency, separation of authorities. It's all part of this process. We started to build a democracy that had to build precisely this structure, from these laboratory separate vessels and processes in which this dangerous matter would be so dosed that it could be managed in the interests of people and not as a result of its decomposing impact on our carriers, but we failed. And we came to a situation where there was invariably a great one who was going forward, and he said, "I won the election, one who was just another savior who thought that there was overpowerment and that overpowerment was somehow becoming overcorruption, recharged into other concentrations: in the media, in the economy, in the regulators, in the justice of uncontrollable power, which was recharged and every next time it happened, and this distorted our co-existence and caused this crisis. This crisis is a moral crisis of our nation's moral self-esteem before it becomes parliamentary before it has its dimensions in one configuration or another and so on. And this Parliament was in my opinion, and I hope that if we draw our conclusions correctly, a decisive moment to draw our conclusions from what lies ahead? There will be no more big ones, and I hope that is true. We are about to have the Bulgarian political life consist of a lot of medium-sized parties and players, none of whom will be able to behave like the big one to bang, to put some names on the table, to say: "You will not ask me what these names are and if you dare ask, it is a scandal. No one will be able to say: I decide to have floating majorities and I will use them as I please. No one can say: I have a decision-making centre that is outside the parliament and that is where these decisions are made, and here you will only execute them. You know these vices, don't you? I hope and take this responsibility that, in this Parliament, we have said: not to all this! Yes, I take that responsibility! [[Applause from DB.]] Because we're gonna have to learn to be comparable from now on. Co-dimensionality, by the way, is born with the word humility. Humility means knowing your place. To be proportionate and to learn that we must somehow learn to meet back without scandals without becoming dirt without drowning in lies and contraptions afterwards. We will have to learn to do this word, which we have turned into some absolute taboo compromises, only there is a compromise and compromise. There is a compromise that is unprincipled. There is a compromise that is based on conscious principles. We will have to learn to look for an area of interest, and I am therefore today glad that so many parties have declared it their primary interest in judicial reform. I hope this will be the basis for a future majority in the next parliament. That's a good sign, that's a good sign. And allow me to say one thing that I regret: this Parliament has not been able to focus on the policies related to the Kovid. There has been a great deal of abuse of this subject, but we have not been able to do enough with regard to this crisis that is coming. And here it's everyone's fault. And another thing that I would like to say: today is September 15th, we are all congratulating protocol, but I want to say: I am not sure that anyone in schools needs our congratulations, but perhaps we can admit to each other today that we have much to learn, to learn from each other, and I want to thank you, because from each one of you, with whom I have had contact, I have been able to learn from something not always the good way, but learning is not always the good way. So I want to thank you! I want to be a witness to one thing because there's this campaign that we're all gonna point fingers at and say what kind of shit everybody else is doing. What voters will understand that you are all junk, and that is why I want to say that I have seen here these months an awful lot of people, who I would never call junk in all parliamentary parties, because it is a person who is a split of lights and shadows, of mistakes and shortcomings, of doubts and pushes ahead, of hopes that providence will give him the right path. And I saw a lot of people, the ones I had the chance to touch, not every single one of you I could, who were just that. I would like to say to our constituents that my optimistic theory of these parliaments includes the people in them and the people I have seen. I want to apologize to those of you who I have grieved with something, and I want to thank you for your cooperation and I will expect us to work again. We've got an ugly campaign ahead of us. But I wanted to say something that would allow us the next time we get together here, to start from a slightly better point than we're going to split up and than we're going to do in this campaign. Colleagues, be healthy and see you again! Thank you. [[Applause from DB and IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u289	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Moving on to the last item on the agenda: REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR THE INVESTIGATION OF FACTS AND ASSISTANCES FOR THE USE OF A SOLVENCY GAS, THE USE OF POWERS AND EXAMINATIONS BY THE Ministry OF Interior, ACTS OF 10 JULY AND 2 SEPTEMBER 2020 AGAINST RESTRUCTURING GRADES, AS WELL AS FOR THE INVESTIGATION OF FACTS AND FACILITIES, RELATED TO THE APPLICATION OF SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS OF RESTRUCTURING CIVERS, OPPOSITIVE LEADERS AND MEMBERS OF POLITAL PARTS OF THE OPPOSITATION AND PROJECT OF THE DECISION ON THE REPORT. Importer of the requested committee. Here you are, Mr. Hadjigenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u290	Can I have a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u291	Can you remember Mr. Ivo Atanasov for a procedure before that? Let's see what the procedure is.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u292	With regard to the decision to be adopted, on the basis of the Commission Report, I would like to state that on those dates which will be cited in the Report and as a result of the police violence carried out, I was at the First Police Department in connection with the detention of protesters, as their representative and I declare private interest in the case under Article 8. 144 of the Rules. I will ask the President of the Commission, if he has been present in pre-trial proceedings as a representative of persons detained or at the Specialized Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office in another capacity, to state a private interest. Thank you. I declare this private interest, and I think it is moral. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u293	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Mrs. Manolova, are you doing the reverse procedure? Perhaps Mr. Hadjigenov should say what benefit he received? [[IBBNI lines.]] Here you are, Mr. Hadjigenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u294	Thank you, Madam President. I kind of got the impression that a lower person couldn't fall off the DPS, but apparently some are trying very hard. I'm almost 20 years of legal counsel, to this day I have no idea what a private interest is. You probably mean conflict of interest, but conflict of interest is just a term. Explain what it is? I've been taking notes. [[ITN lines]] , give me a chance to finish. Thank you. I kept notes, counted the people I represented during the protest until 35, and then I lost interest in numbers. Each one of them I've represented pro bono, so I don't know what private interest means. Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u295	What does it mean for free?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u296	Free means special for you, Mr. Nenkov. Madam President, given that the Commission report contains documents that are confidential and secret, please close the meeting, I ask the Quaestors to clear the Chamber and stop the broadcasts on the cameras.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u297	Mr. Hadjigenov, does the entire meeting have to be closed?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u298	No, Madam President, just the classified and classified part, then...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u299	And you don't vote when it's classified information. What's the level of secrecy?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u300	Part one, Madam President, is confidential. Part two is classified with graffiti, so we need to shut it down, and that's not a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u301	Part two, we have to shut down?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u302	No, no, we have to close the meeting. The report has different brands: confidential and secret, and the next part will be opened with a clear report...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u303	So we're going to divide it into two parts. The first part of the two Subparts: the type of griff and the second part, which is with the adoption of the decision, has been opened.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u304	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u305	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u306	Reverse procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u307	Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u308	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm doing the reverse procedure, first of all, I want to really establish what the level of classified information is. And second, Mr. Hadjigenov, don't be Mr. Boyko Rashkov's lawyer, first. Let's not be so easy to somehow get out of what you've been up to over the last few months and in particular Mr. Rashkov. Many accusations have been thrown into the space for who has been tapped, which opposition leaders, protesters and come on now, if we can today, because we have repeatedly challenged debates, hearings with Mr. Rashkov, who did not say anything specifically, but said he would say it, come on at least today, at the last meeting, to show all the information in this report, which is contained so that not only the MPs, but also the people, and the media can get acquainted: is there really illegal wiretapping of citizens, protesters and political leaders, or was it all just a big farce and fraud?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u309	Excuse me, are you suggesting that the National Assembly vote in an open session?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u310	And the documents are classified, Mr. Hadjigenov, right? Okay. Then I will put this proposal to the vote by Mr. Hadjigenov: the first part to be closed with the two Subparts he said with the two Graffes of classified information and the second part to be discovered and related to the adoption of a decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u311	Let's say it's private interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u312	Mrs. Manolova, what is this private interest and you? I put to the vote Mr. Hadjigenov's proposal as proposed. [[Definitions between the National Representative Nikolai Hadjigenov and the Chairman.]] No, no, I vote for the two parts to separate them, Mr. Hadjigenov, because you have a special case, so... We can't make a decision to remove the grid, but we may have to give some technological time to close the meeting. Please suspend the vote and declare the result. They voted 101 MPs, 87, and there are no abstentions. The motion is accepted. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] There's no quorum. Checking the quorum through... Give me the list. [[The representatives of GERB-SDS, DPS, BSP for Bulgaria are leaving the hall.]] Let's split the two parts.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u313	There's no choice.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u314	You can't have a choice because we don't have any information. We have to split one part of the other part.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u315	They're graffiti.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u316	They have a griff, then we don't vote when we're in the hypothesis of point 2, when they're discussed classified, but when the entire meeting is closed, it's especially because one part will remain open, one part must and we have to take... [[IBBNI lines.]] What if you want us all to shut it down and go to a closed session and decide only to be in the open to announce. Okay. Please, all outsiders on the balcony and into the hall. Please hand over BNT, BNR... [[Definitions between the National Representative Nikolai Hadjigenov and the Chairman.]] We'll close the entire meeting, what Mr. Hadjigenov is now proposing. Mr. Hadjigenov, is this what you're suggesting now, that we close the entire session? Okay. Please suspend direct media transmission, broadcast over the Internet, on the website of the National Assembly, as well as in the official profiles of the National Assembly. Perhaps, Mr. Hadjigenov, we should wait five minutes to at least allow technological time to pass us if everything is stopped. [[The sitting continues in indoor mode.]] [[After the closed part.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-15.u317	We've already got a broadcast. Colleagues, I re-vote Ivan Ivanov's proposal to add to the report by not accepting the recommendations in the removal part. They voted 121 MPs: 61, against 2, abstention 58. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from ICN and IBBNI.]] I now vote on the whole draft decision with the supplement adopted. They voted 123 MPs: for 123, against and abstention there is no. [[Lowered applause from ICN and IBGNI.]] The motion is accepted. That concludes the agenda. Colleagues, I wish you a successful and peaceful election campaign. Good luck, everyone! We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
