ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Mr. Manev, here is a statement on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Yesterday it became clear that on 2 February 2021, in implementation of the European Arrest Warrant issued by the Special Prosecutor's Office in the Czech Republic was detained Ilija Stoilov. Ilija Stoilov is a brother and partner of BSP MP Georgi Stoilov. He is a donor of the BSP party during the 2017 elections. In 2020, Stoilov was sentenced in absentia to seven years in prison for leading an organized criminal group for extortion and threats through physical violence during the 2015 period. In August 2018, Ilija Stoilov illegally left Bulgaria's borders and has since been on the run from justice. We will recall that after the disappearance of his brother, BSP MP Georgi Stoilov announced that he was not a fugitive from the Law but went abroad to be treated. Today it becomes clear that this is a lie. As early as 2017 from the parliamentary tribune, the group of GERB urged BSP to separate itself from its MP and to request his resignation. Instead, we received the duty response that everyone was innocent until proven guilty. Ilija Stoilov is a major sponsor of BSP, has been partnered with his brother and is convicted, detained and is about to suffer his punishment. Whatever decision to make from here on BSP on the case, it will be late. In 2017, the BSP leadership decided to share the responsibility of this criminal activity with its comrade and today owes an explanation for this decision. We recall that in the last four years a number of GERB members have resigned because of doubts about irregularities. Some of these colleagues of ours are already justified by the Bulgarian court, but surely for a long time there will be stains of the dirt that were spilled on their reputation. At the times of the mixed war that they fought against us, we preferred everyone to assume their own responsibility so as not to transfer doubts about one or other action to the entire party. You preferred that your entire party be responsible for the actions of Ilija Stoilov. Your party is also responsible for the defamation of Elena Yoncheva, who was awarded by you in a Euro deputy position because of her dirty work. Ladies and gentlemen, time is the best judge for one political decision or another. At the end of this Parliament, we have eyes to stand before our constituents and with the good things we have done and with the mistakes we have admitted. You do not have this opportunity because in this Parliament you preferred to deal with dirt and black PR and from this position to behave as infallible. The big problem is not that the brother and partner of your MP is convicted and detained for a serious crime, but that even this fact is not able to make you admit that you were wrong by nominateing and defending him. This ensures that such errors will be repeated and will increasingly become a way of your party's behaviour. Therefore, it is not surprising that your leader in Varna Borislav Gutsanov, who is in itself a sufficiently controversial figure, has decided to nominate as a member of the Regional Election Commission Nikolay Nikolaev Banev. Nikolai Banev is the son of the infamous and juicy oligarch, who bears the same name, businessman. This application looks like it's coming to show that you haven't learned anything new and you haven't forgotten anything old. Oligarch Nikolai Banev, who in the first 20 years after 1989 played a decisive role in the destruction of the Bulgarian economy and who was a frequent guest and sponsor of your meetings in Buzludzha, where he arrived with his Maybach today is in custody and is waiting for his sentence. During this time, the famous Gutsanov proposed that his son ensure the honesty of the upcoming parliamentary elections as a member of the Regional Election Commission. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the BSP, you have the right to make your internal party decisions. We have no intention of giving you advice in one direction or another. After such decisions and with such a party history, however, you have no right to behave like morals in politics and from this position to say who is good and who is bad. You have no right because you don't have the courage to change and realize your mistakes. Thus, when Cornelia Nino gives moral sentences from this tribune, no one believes her. Therefore, in the last 14 years, you have not won either local or parliamentary elections or European elections. We are convinced that every action and decision in politics pays a price. Sooner or later, it's hard to pay. You will pay the price for mistakes and inability to make adequate decisions in the upcoming parliamentary elections. The price for your mistakes will be yours. Ours paid for it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. The way you're leading it? Mr. Vigenin, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u4	Madam President, I don't understand the grins behind me. They must have some grounds, but you, as President of the Parliament and as part of the parliamentary group of GERB, should give advice to your colleagues that such declarations do not help you in any way. What is being demonstrated at the moment is in the best fascist traditions in which responsibility is not... [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u5	Mr. Vigenin...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u6	...in which responsibility is not personal, but we seek responsibility from the relatives of those who have committed a crime, some of which have not been proven. If each time you're going to send on this tribune here people with...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u7	What's the remark to me? You're talking to the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u8	I'm talking to you, Madam President. [[Noise and lines.]] You have to stop people like that because you're making suggestions about crimes against people who have no responsibility at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u9	There is no way to interfere with parliamentary group declarations. The declaration wasn't offensive, it was principled. I've been following very closely...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u10	[[BSP for Bulgaria, from place]] Wait, let him speak!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u11	The declaration was offensive to the people who were mentioned. Punitive responsibility is personal and you have no right to treat people who are not guilty and have no responsibility. You should be ashamed of what you're doing.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. [[Noise, lines and calls.]] Here you go, Mr. Ivanov. Colleagues, let's listen to the comments my colleagues have on me.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u13	Madam President, honourable Members! Madam President, I think you have committed a serious violation of the Rules of Procedure, allowing here from the stands to be made suggestions regarding colleagues...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u14	Mr. Ivanov, just a moment. I want you to show me in the text which article prohibits suggestions and speeches from the parliamentary tribune. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u15	To release the stands, to interfere with the conduct...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u16	Mr. Ivanov, please leave the stands! Mr. Ermenkov, can you get to the point? I'm going to ask my colleagues from the BSP to finally start reading these Rules. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u17	Madam President, you're showing double arsin. Yesterday after our declaration Mr. Valentin Nikolov came out and two minutes explained what should not be said in a statement. You listened to him very carefully. You waited, you didn't interrupt him, you gave him the opportunity to say things that, first of all, were not true, secondly, there was nothing of his speech that would be related to your way of conducting it. Today, based on the fact that BSP's parliamentary group is coming out with the same speech, the same way, the same problem, you are interrupting, you are not giving the two minutes, you are calling from above as a village pub instead of sitting down here and answering, as the two minutes are due...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u18	Mr. Ermenkov, let's respect each other. Please, continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u19	Therefore, please, when someone gets up from BSP and takes attitude in the manner of conduct, treat it exactly as you treat your colleagues from GERB. Otherwise, the dictatorship you impose here will not help you in the elections, on the contrary, will show that you are harmful to the state. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u20	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Bulgarian citizens will decide whether we are harmful or not. Let's not take over the functions. You love to speak on behalf of Bulgarian citizens. Let them decide on the fourth of April. [[Noise and lines.]] Let's move on. Procedure? Mr. Stoinev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u21	It's not a statement. Rather, to remind you, Madam President, that just a week ago here in the National Assembly, before honourable Members, I called on the Prime Minister to perform art. 105, para. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You then promised both myself and the MPs that you would ask the Prime Minister this week to come to the Chamber and present, or rather take into account the results of the priority files concerning the German Presidency, and, of course, the new priorities and files concerning the Portuguese Presidency. My wish, both my colleagues and I, is to find out how far you have come with this request to the Prime Minister to fulfill his constitutional obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u22	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. I was going to include the topic in the National Assembly Work Programme this week, but Mr. Mareshki in art. 53, para. Three beat me to it and offered to invite the Prime Minister here. [[Loud noise and lines: "This was the turn. "]] We had a vote yesterday. This vote has shown that you do not have enough votes to invite the Prime Minister. [[Noise and lines.]] The hall here has decided that the item is not currently on the agenda. I can't do anything, Mr. Stoinev. The hall has decided. The way you're leading it? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u23	Thank you, Madam President. In the manner of conduct, as I strongly believe that you are working for the authority of the National Assembly, but as if with your actions lately you are not showing it at all because this is not happening, Madam President, a speech for voting. This is about fulfilling the commitments of the Prime Minister of Constitution. 105, repeat, para. Art. 4 and art. 128 of our Rules. There is therefore no way for us to vote on such an action. I understand that Mr. Mareshki is doing what you tell him to do, but in this case it was an inadequate act, Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u24	Mr. Stoinev, please...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u25	...because if you wish and if you really want to build the authority of the National Assembly, then you will ask the Prime Minister to finally come to the Bulgarian Parliament and fulfill his constitutional obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u26	Mr. Stoynev, the authority of the National Assembly is not built only by its President, but by all 240 MPs. When we spend half an hour in such an argument, this is what beats on the authority of the National Assembly, Mr. Stoinev. [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.) National Representative Georgi Gokov wants the floor.)]] And Mr. Gokov will ask me something. Wait for Mrs. Taskova to alternate the groups. In the manner of holding Mrs. Taskova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u27	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'd like to ask you to call off all your colleagues from this circus. Let's look around and see that only those who were punished yesterday by their chairman, that is, thrown out of politics, and those who were rewarded to be leaders of lists, are present in the Chamber of BSP. [[Applause from Volya and GERB]] I understand that the campaign is starting for them, but we are calling them.. Let us do a campaign, and we will listen carefully to you, colleagues, with the greatest respect if you go out here and say what you have done so far. So, Madam President... [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria: "This is not in the way of driving. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u28	The way you run it, Mrs. Taskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u29	Yeah. I ask you to put an end to this and determine some amount of the possibility of each group of lines in the manner of conduct, as we have spoken many times at the Chairman's Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Taskova. Unfortunately, there is no way I can stop this procedure because it is signed in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u31	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u32	Wait, Mr. Mareshki. Let's let Mr. Svilensky go and then Mr. Mareshki go. We'll take turns in groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u33	Thank you, Madam President. You are trying to apply some spirit of the Rules of Procedure, but this is done when there are statements on the substance of bills, and procedures are given immediately. So you should have given the floor to Mr. Mareshki, but anyway, you've decided with the procedures to follow the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u34	Mr. Svilensky, I'll give you the two minutes you have, but it doesn't suit you. When I do some tolerance to each group, you are dissatisfied when I tolerate only one group of people, and you are still dissatisfied. I'm trying to be...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u35	No, you just do it when you don't have to, and that's why we remind you. The rules are several dozen pages and it is nice at the end of the four-year term to learn it, Madam President. A week ago, you said you'd study the Rules, read them, and make sure the Prime Minister comes here. One week you were not able to understand that in this House the same, which is the Law in the State, the Prime Minister is obliged to come here. There is no need neither the parliamentary group of Volya, nor the parliamentary group of BSP, DPS, GERB, anyone, to vote to be present here. His obligation under Constitution, by law and by regulations, and by morality, is to be here for six months and to say what the government is doing in the upcoming six months of EU presidency. It's his duty. How long do you need to read the Rules to understand that it has been tabled by a parliamentary group and another parliamentary group is hiding the Prime Minister because he is afraid to come to this Chamber? Because for a year and four months he has not entered the National Assembly, he has not entered this building, and you continue to hide it, and I do not know how long, and every morning you present us with some ridiculous declarations that will not shift the debate. Bulgarian citizens are interested in what the government does, what we do for the next six months when the fates of Bulgarian citizens are to be decided. You're bothering them yesterday Spas Gurnevski, today Manoil Manev, tomorrow I don't know who...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u36	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Everyone has the right to make a declaration from the National Assembly's stand. Mr. Mareshki before that, then Mr. Rashidov, then Mr. Gokov. I saw you, Mr. Gokov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u37	You saw me half an hour ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u38	With this red mask, you just flinch. [[Noise and lines.]] But put on your mask, put on your mask. I can hear through the mask.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u39	Mrs. Chairman! You were rightly noted by BSP colleagues that you have no right to stop the circus they are playing, you have no right to stop the circus people from coming out and speaking. However, I would like to point out to you that you have the absolute right when the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria is being made vulgar, stupid, idiotic calls...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u40	No, Mr. Mareshki...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u41	How can we determine the call of colleague Gothev, how was it?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u42	Gyokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u43	Gökov, I regret that in four years I could not remember his name, by which he most simple turned to his colleague Taskova, speaking to her. I would like to call on you, when there are such outbursts, profanity, again to say, from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria...................... to............. to............. to............................... to............ to..................... to................................................... to....................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u44	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Mr. Rashidov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u45	Madam President, in the manner of conduct. I would like to ask you not to allow from this high tribune a workplace from here to make qualifications for people. You just called my colleagues my friends.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u46	Not me, Mr. Rashidov, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u47	Dear colleagues, in Germany there are complexes, there is the largest memorial near the Brandenburg Gate, Jewish. In this Parliament, allow yourself to make xenophobic speeches instead of working! I'm sorry, what's the difference between Auschwitz and Belene and Kravena? [[Applause from GERB.]] Do we call you communists? It's the same thing. So please, I'm not a fascist and I feel a little bit affected. That's why I'm making this remark to you guys, not to bullshit you. Stop this room from desecrating her. It's not allowed, it's not allowed, it's on trial all over the world. By what right do you tell these people here that they're fascists or that they're fascist behavior? What about your communist is better? I've always called you socialists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u48	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. [[Applause from GERB.]] Mr. Gokov, come in. [[Voices from GERB: "Oooh! "]] Colleagues, please, let's listen to Mr. Gokov. I suspect he found the Internet point of the Rules. I can also provide you with paper.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u49	Mrs. Chairman! You just took the liberty of accusing the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria that we have not read the Rules, but I will now prove to you that you have not read them. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 128 of our Rules of Procedure writes: "The Council of Ministers in the performance of art. 105, para. 4 of the Constitution, notice, from the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, at the beginning of every 6 months period of Presidency of the Council of the European Union shall submit to the National Assembly a report on the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union during the previous Presidency and the priorities of the Republic of Bulgaria during the current Presidency. The National Assembly shall hear the Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Minister. Now, if you tell me that you are performing this article, I will not believe you, and 240 people will not believe you, and the whole of Bulgaria will not believe you. However, if you say: as President of the National Assembly, I am subordinate to the Prime Minister and I cannot get him to come to this Parliament, he will explain many things about your behaviour. So who knows the rules and who doesn't know it, who applies it and who doesn't, is a question that everyone really sees. And to Mr. Mareshki, Mr. Mareshki, my name may not be...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u50	Now, that's how you keep it. If you want, outside... [[The President stops microphones. National Representative Georgi Gokov spoke with microphones off.]] Explain yourself outside the room. Let's go outside and explain our personal explanations, fellow Members. It's a procedure procedure, a personal explanation. Let's not break the rules. [[Dialog between National Representative Georgi Gokov and Vice President Veselin Mareshki.]] Mr. Gokov, let's get to work. Let's get to work already. [[Dialog between National Representative Georgi Gokov and Vice President Veselin Mareshki.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u51	They can't stop a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u52	But it's over now. Mr. Radishov spoke, and you didn't ask for a personal explanation after Mr. Mareshki's statement. You can't, Mr. Gokov. [[The National Representative Georgi Gokov spoke with microphones off.]] Come on, Mr. Gokov. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Let's sit down.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u53	I'm not going to sit down. Why should I sit down?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u54	Why do you keep trying to make scandals?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u55	Someone convicted by a Bulgarian court... [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u56	And look at the parliamentary practice. There is no such parliamentary practice.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u57	How could there not be?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u58	No personal explanation shall be given to the procedure. [[Noise and lines.]] Thank you, Mr. Gokov. [[The National Representative Georgi Gokov spoke with microphones off.]] Come on, you'll explain later.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u59	And I'll explain myself further.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u60	Okay, come on. Colleagues, let's get to work. [[The National Representative Georgi Gokov spoke with microphones off.]] Well, you'll have a chance to explain yourself. You'll have a chance to explain yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u61	I'm not entitled to a personal explanation...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u62	Of course you're entitled to a personal explanation. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u63	I don't know why you're doing this. Now, because you're protecting Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u64	No, I'm not protecting anyone, Mr. Gokov. Don't provoke me. I'm just not protecting anyone. [[The National Representative Georgi Gokov spoke with microphones off. Loud noise and lines from GERB.]] That's what you guys do. [[The National Representative Georgi Gokov spoke with microphones off.]] What do you mean, I'm scared? I've shown for four years that I'm not afraid of anything. Here's a personal explanation. [[Reply from Vice-President Veselin Mareshki.]] Be careful what you say, though. Here you go. Let me see what you can say about a personal explanation. [[Reply: "Keep the Rules! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u65	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u66	Let me see. [[Reply from Vice-President Veselin Mareshki.]] Will you apologize to Mrs. Taskova, however, in this personal explanation? Here's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u67	Now, if you're going to give me the floor and call Mr. Mareshki...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u68	I give you my word, your time is running out.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u69	Okay. Thank you for running out of time. I mean, from the stands as my personal explanation, Mr. Mareshki, my name may not have been heard by anyone, but whoever heard it remembers it well. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u70	That's it. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u71	Unlike, unlike... [[The President turns off the microphones. Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u72	So far, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Gokov! [[Reply from Vice-President Veselin Mareshki. National Representative Georgi Gokov continues to speak with microphones off.]] Mr. Gokov, please don't make any further scandal!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u73	Karayancheva, follow the rules. Give him the word. Why are you interrupting him?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u74	Please! You have a good name, Mr. Gokov. That's why you're the leader of the list now. [[(Voices: "I's" and applause by GERB. Line: Come on, sit down!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u75	I'm not sitting down. Are you holding what Mareshki is doing?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u76	I'm trying to calm things down, you're inflaming them. Please don't do this!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u77	No, I don't. I mean... [[Dialog between National Representative Georgi Gokov and Vice-President Emil Hristov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u78	Give him the word. He's got two minutes. Give him the word. [[Dialog between National Representative Georgi Gokov and Vice-President Emil Hristov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u79	All right, be careful from now on we don't take offense. Let's not be offended. Just so you know. Then Mr. Mareshki will ask because we have already broken the Rules and it will be done under another procedure, and we will not be able to work. It's gonna be the way it's gonna be. [[The National Representative Georgi Gokov spoke with microphones off. A line from Vice-President Veselin Mareshki.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u80	We've lost 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u81	Okay, I take full responsibility for myself so we can't work. Yeah, okay. [[Noise and lines. National Representative Georgi Gokov continues to stand next to the parliamentary tribune.]] Mr. Gokov, please! Please, Mr. Gokov! [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Gokov, please! I'm asking you very much to take your place in this room. You said what you had to say about yourself. Next thing I know, I suspect it won't be... and it'll blow up the room again. Please sit down. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u82	Okay, what does this look like now, guys?! Colleagues, what does this look like now?! Put it down! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u83	Mr. Gokov, you're so breaking the rules that you just...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u84	Mr. Gokov, you are interfering with the normal course of the meeting. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u85	Mr. Gokov! [[The National Representative Georgi Gokov continues to stand next to the parliamentary tribune.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u86	In the Rules of Procedure, there is a solution.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u87	Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u88	You're giving me the word?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u89	No, you're welcome to take your seat. Thank you. We continue with the first item of today's agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR FIRE. Importer is the Council of Ministers, 10 December 2020. Adopted at first vote on 14 January 2021. Here you go, Mrs. Belova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u90	Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please vote on admission in Mrs. Sylvia Vassileva's Chamber of Commerce Director at the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u91	Please vote on admission in this Chamber. They voted 145 MPs: 125 against 9, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests to the hall. Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, we have just invited a director of the Department of Animal Economy, haven't we, Mrs. Belova? [[Reply from rapporteur Maria Belova: "Yes! "]] The law we will see and pass concerns the cutting of Bulgarian forests! And I now understand, Madam President, why are you in a hurry to start working on this bill? Because you want an hour more to cut down the Bulgarian forests through the Beekeeping Act. For this reason, I suggest that you invite either the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests or at least some Deputy Minister who is responsible for the forests, because the Beekeeping Act will cut down the Bulgarian forests! And the Minister of Agriculture may not even know what law he's going to come out of this room in a few hours! My proposal is that the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests or a representative deputy responsible for the Bulgarian forests should come here and listen to what the Bulgarian Parliament is preparing for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u93	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. I'll inform Mrs. Taneva. Here you go, Mrs. Belova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u94	On 10 December 2020, the Council of Ministers submitted a report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Single Resolution Act, No 002-01-71, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 10 December 2020, adopted on the first vote on 14 January 2021. The Act on the Amendment and Supplement of the Law on the Bonding (prom., SG No. ...).................................................... The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u95	A statement? Here you are, Mr. Vigenin, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u96	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, this may be a little unusual, but in principle I would like to say that I have an objection to the title of this bill. First, in relation to the second part, the Law on the Law on the Arts. The truth is that this is not a beekeeping law, but a law to settle certain technical issues and procedures related to beekeeping. In this law there is no vision, no politics, no long-term goals. There should be two elements in it: one of them is the conservation of bees as a species, the second development of the Beekeeping sector in Bulgaria. Unfortunately, it doesn't have either. In the first part of the title, the Law on Amendment and Supplement is better said: Law on Deformation and Deterioration, because the envisaged changes are completely unnecessary. They create an additional burden that will be overwhelming for some of the beekeepers. And since the Animal Health Act does not distinguish between an establishment and a private holding when it comes to raising bee families and producing honey, many of the so-called small beekeepers will either enter the gray area after the adoption of this law, or will give up their activities. To the Bulgarian beekeepers, I would like to say the following: after the elections, the new majority in parliament led by BSP will adopt a whole new Beekeeping Act in close coordination with beekeeper organisations, taking into account the best practices in the world. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u97	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. - What's the line? I can't see. What do you have to say? Mr. Shopov, I can't see the mask!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u98	Masks are put on, Madam President, when bee hives are opened and when the beekeeper takes care of them and not in this space, which is not public within the meaning of the Law. I am only putting out some arguments in this connection.. this is an area for which there is special access. This is not public space, but there are many arguments. And stop sending cops to give me certificates...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u99	Mr. Shopov, I'm asking you to get to the point on the bill! [[The President turns off the microphones. People's representative Pavel Shopov spoke with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u100	[[BSP for Bulgaria, from place]] You can't hear it!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u101	There's no way to hear it!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u102	Mr. Shopov, everyone in this room is wearing masks and carrying out the minister's orders. Come in under the Beekeeping Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u103	The Beekeeping Act has been trying from the very beginning of this National Assembly to make lobbying changes to the benefit, honourable Members, of several people who are absorbing European funds, receiving hundreds of thousands and millions for this activity, which actually have hives and crates in which there are no bees, and are reported to the relevant European institutions in the relevant way. From the very beginning, attempts were made to make these lobbying changes. With three hundred dawns people who understand from this industry and from the problems in the company stopped these attempts for changes were especially active then by IMRO, without asking the beekeepers themselves, the presidents and members of the beekeeping companies in Bulgaria. And at the moment, there are no such people in the Chamber to give their opinion. The goal is to fight these Bulgarian citizens who raise bees for their own needs, which raise bees in the traditional way, and it is for the owners to be able to look at 100-150, up to 200 hive bees, and not make their own businesses. That's the useful bio-beekeeping. And here the other thing that amazes all of us is how can we continue with this practice between the two readings not to solve problems, but to create bad practices through one law, matter, with problems from another law, the Forest Act?! And why do you have to blow up society again and do things that for all lawyers is absolutely clear that they are completely contrary?! They contradict the Law on Legislative Acts, the changes contradict the Constitution.. to talk at the moment on the issue of the cutting down of the Bulgarian forest?! Yeah, that's what you do. We know who submitted this bill. It was imported by IMRO through the system: four or five people from IMRO in four or five television stations every night for four or five months, while the Law of the European Union lasts to speak nicely or badly, but to show up to appear. And this, colleagues from the BSP, should be clear to you that it is done according to the old term since it was done at the very beginning of this National Assembly. Because in this National Assembly there are no lawyers, no lawyers even in the Legal Commission. There in the Legal Commission, colleagues are members who have nothing to do with the law. That never was! This never happened! And that is why there is no National Assembly in which the regulations adopted, the laws adopted, are of such low quality. And here, at the end of the term...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u104	Get to the point, Mr. Shopov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u105	...do the same thing. Therefore, I call on the whole House to stop this nonsense and to reject this text about forests. The proposals being made to kill the ordinary, the small, to call them, but in fact this is the traditional way of raising bees, for bees, to be rejected and to end this lie.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u106	Take your mask, Mr. Shopov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Shopov, if you continue to be maskless in this room, I'm going to ask you to leave! I see that the mask that the Quaestor of the Tribune provided for you has remained there, and you don't have it. Any other speeches? I can't see. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the Law. Vote 137 MPs: for 102, against 23, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u107	There is a proposal from the MPs Maria Belova and Irena Dimova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal from the MPs Chavdar Velinov and Valeri Zablyanov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... Art. 5. (1) A beekeeping council shall be established as an advisory body to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests. (2) The Beekeeping Council shall assist the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry in the implementation of the state policy in the field of beekeeping. (3) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests shall, by orders, determine the composition of the Beekeeping Council and shall establish rules for its organisation and activities. (4) The Beekeeping Council shall include representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests, the State Fund 3. (5) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry is Chairman of the Beekeeping Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u108	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Firstly, we BSP strongly support registered farmers and beekeepers. For BSP the Beekeepers sector is a priority and one of the leading sectors in the agricultural sphere of Bulgaria. Now regarding the proposal of Maria Belova and Irena Dimova in art. 5. Dear colleagues, it is interesting that the proposal is made without having objective motives and a real expert impact assessment. There is no record of the proposal being discussed with the sector as well. During the discussion in the Committee on Agriculture and Food at second reading Mrs. Vasileva, Director of the Department of Agriculture, said that the only reason for the closure of the National Beekeeper Union with the change of art. 5 is that he did not stop the swarming of the beekeeping organizations which had become 18 in number. Look, it's neither his job nor the National Beekeeper Union's obligation to do something like this. On the contrary, there is even a legal delegation in the current text that there may be more than one national industry beekeeping union. But he who has fulfilled the terms of art. 5, para. 3 of the Beekeeping Act is the National Beekeeper Union. Four times the Union has submitted documents to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests during the management of GERB to prove this fact, but there is no answer yet. The Ministry did not answer why since the adoption of this text in 2003 there has been no other text and why, despite this fact, they do not want to work with the National Beekeeper Union. Although the representative of the Union at the Commission meeting stated that the Union is not a beekeeping organisation, but an interprofessional one, similar to the Vineyard Chamber, and its aim is precisely to support and stimulate the functioning of beekeeping organisations, part of which are in its structure. We put aside the fact that there is no formal, legal definition of what is a beekeeping organization? Instead of making an attempt in the Beekeeping Act to give a legal definition of what a beekeeper is and from there to bring out what is a beekeeping organization, one in which only beekeepers are members, we create even greater chaos, we remove the only legal form of representation in the sector and leave it to the minister's conscience to determine what a beekeeping organisation is. We now expect the Chitalishte in Shumen to be designated as such because its chairman is a beekeeper and it says in its statutes that he supports beekeeping. This is more or less the practice of drawing up the current minister's Beekeeper Advisory Council, which the regular beekeepers define as the rubber seal of the Minister of Agriculture. Perhaps the good previous practice in quotes in the functioning of this council has prompted the importers to serve it to us as overheated food. The truth, however, is one thing, and it is that the National Beekeeper Union does not fit into the concept of a rubber stamp on the actions of the Minister of Agriculture and genuinely defends the interests of the sector. During the Commission meeting, it became clear that the Union has signalled smuggling with 4 Bulgarian copper trucks at the border with Germany and there is no reaction from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. The Union has also taken a number of legal proceedings before the Administrative Court against the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry as a national jurisdiction in the sector and has indicated unlawfulness of a number of regulatory acts. If the court confirms the demands of the National Beekeepers' Union, it will lead to a disaster for the sector. But what cares about GERB and the government? The next executives to think about it will pull out this hot potato and fire will have to extinguish possible protests and riots of the beekeepers. The Union has also pointed out a number of, to put it mildly, corrupt texts in the National Bee Programme and especially the fact that a close to GERB has signed the interventions according to art. 49 of the Strategy Plans Regulation. This cannot be swallowed by GERB and therefore they are shutting down the National Beekeeper Union. Also during the Commission meeting, the representative of the National Beekeeper Union asked who Prime Minister Borisov lied to when he said in 2008 that...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u110	The weather, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u111	I'm graduating. ... The National Beekeeper Union is the most serious achievement of beekeeping and has sent a letter to the World Bee Organization Apimondia as a sign of support...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u112	Time! Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u113	...of the candidacy of the National Beekeepers' Union and Bulgaria to host the Congress in Sofia, or now that Prime Minister Boyko Borisov is closing the National Beekeepers' Union? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u114	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? Mr. Petrov has a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u115	Thank you, Madam President. In order not to speculate with the word "branches," I would like to make that statement. What he calls the pre-negotiation of the spokespersons is an ordinary non-governmental organisation that claims to be a branch union. Dear colleagues, I would like to tell you that during all the years of BSP governance, also when it was in opposition, I do not know that they have tabled a serious proposal for the adoption of a law for branch organizations in Bulgaria. Its lack is a serious weakness in the functioning of our economy, not only in this part of agricultural production, which we are now discussing, but is also a serious remark made by European organisations. I just want to tell you that we from the National Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria (National Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria) have officially engaged the relevant authorities in the Annual Reports on the evaluation of the implementation of the European programmes in Bulgaria, we have officially recorded that it is a great weakness in the functioning of the Bulgarian economy lack of law on branch organizations. Now all such political associations, which were quoted just now, can safely put before their name a Bransch organization.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u116	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Petrov, you do not know much about agriculture, but I will read to you now the current law, which is from 2003, and see what it says in art. If only you had read that! Art. 5. (1) In carrying out the state policy in the field of beekeeping, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall be assisted by a national industry beekeeping union. This was signed in 2003 in the Law. You should have read that! And not to tell me, "What are these branch organizations? " - Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u118	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Zablyanov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u119	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Since the procedure is currently a second reading of the Law and concrete proposals under § 1 for amendment in art. 5, I would like to address the President of the Commission, Mrs. Belova, who presented the report, and note that the proposal that we have made with Mr. Velinov was not read by the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u120	Because it's accepted. It's generally accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u121	Well, in the text that was read, I didn't see how it was accepted, and I want to draw attention to para. 3 of our proposal, which I do not see how is integrated into the Commission's proposal. It sounds like this: (3) The Beekeepers' Council unites and represents the interests of the Bulgarian beekeepers, beekeepers and traders, producers of beekeepers' inventory and medicines, researchers and other persons related to the beekeepers'... I would like to emphasise that what we offer as a philosophy differs from the proposal of the majority. At the same time, we note that the creation of a beekeeping council to the Minister of Agriculture is a big step forward from the point of view of regulating the problems in the sector, but also at the level of representation. Because, as the proposal has been made at the moment when the Minister by order determines the composition of the beekeeping council, for us represents an additional body that will be characterized by a higher degree of administration of the industry than to increase its representation. We therefore insist on a broad range of organisations and individuals involved in the sector, as is the case with representatives of scientific organisations, who can consult the Minister and defend and form state policy in this sector. It's about a different philosophy in the formation of this body. At the same time, we support the idea that the creation of a beekeeping council is necessary, since the adoption of the Law in 2003 has so far gained a great deal of experience. Therefore, we believe that the only correct way to solve these problems is to maximise the broad representation of the various business and other entities involved with the industry. We take note of the Commission's proposal to amend art. 5 and, at the same time, we consider it necessary to develop within 6 months of the adoption of the Law Rules on its application, as the absence of the Rules of Application is pointed out by all industry organizations as a major disadvantage of the current legal and regulatory framework of the sector. We propose that in the Final Provisions, so that I do not take the floor, an additional text should be included, which sounds like this.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u122	When we get to the Final Provisions, then you will make the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u123	Are you suggesting I do it separately?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u124	Yes, of course you will take the floor again.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u125	That's why I insist. 3 which is part of our proposal, which I have read in part, to be voted on because we do not accept the Commission's proposal as it is shaped. It contains some of our proposals, but not exhaustively, and it is about a completely different philosophy of forming the beekeeping council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u126	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. - What's the line? Mr. Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Zablyanov, you should read as Mr. Petrov more! Now I'm going to read to you what it says in art. 5, para. 4 of the present Beekeeping Act and of any new philosophy, which you claim to be. See what the current law says: (4) The National Sectoral Beekeeping Union shall unite and represent beekeepers, beekeepers and beekeepers, producers of beekeeping inventory and medicines, researchers and other persons associated with beekeeping and shall aim to assist and protect the general and individual interests of its members and to assist the state authorities in the conduct of the policy in the field of the Well, what you're suggesting is the same thing you practically copied. This is more than the composition of a task force on the National Bee Programme. How successful this model has been acting is what you are proposing, proof is the administrative case filed by the National Beekeepers' Union for its annulment as prepared in violation of material and procedural rules. We leave aside the fact that only beekeeping organisations are to be considered as representatives of the sector. Until now, other participants in the National Beekeepers' Union were included in the composition of the National Beekeepers' Union: beekeepers, beehive traders, inventory traders, scientific workers, what I read you in the current law. Notice, even in this sense is the last amendment to the Strategic Plans Regulation..................................................................................................... 49, p. 5 which obliges the government to cooperate with all organisations in the field of beekeeping and not just with beekeeping organisations. Then how will the Ministry meet this condition and this...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u128	The weather, Mr. Georgiev. Thank you. [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator speaks on off microphones.]] Identify which member, which paragraph and colleagues will consult themselves. You don't have to read them the Law from the stands. [[The speaker keeps talking on off microphones.]] Finish it!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u129	Madam President, I apologize, but this is extremely important, you at least listen to it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u130	Yeah, but there's a regulation. After all, two minutes and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u131	Listen to him, at least. How, then, will the Ministry fulfil this condition and this Council assist the Minister in this cooperation? Is that going to require the formation of a new organ? In this sense, I have also submitted a written question to Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u132	Thank you. We'll get to the point when the time comes to hear him out.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u133	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u134	Let's finish the dot procedure and I'll give you a personal explanation, Mr. Petrov. Is there a second line? I can't see. Hole, Mr. Jablyanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u135	Mrs. Chairman! I believe that in the end all those who speak from the point of view of the representation of the industry before the Minister and the executive, and the formation of the state policy, are led by good motives, I suppose that Mr. Georgiev is also in this way true that he defends only the National Beekeeping Union and the issue of its representation is obviously a discussion, this also became clear at the discussions in the Commission. Therefore, the creation of a new body to enable all representatives in the industry to have contact and be able to participate in the formation of state policy is one step forward. And when an organization, no matter what its name is and what it says in the Law, is deformed or reaches a level to which it has served a limited range of interests - private and corporate, it should be the state to take on its role and make up for the shortcomings that have occurred by means of legislation. That's all I have to say. I believe that this is not about copying the functions of the National Beekeeper Union, but about creating a new completely different body, with another degree of representation and another way of interaction with the executive, respectively with the Minister of Agriculture. So Mr. Georgiev, in addition to not understanding the meaning of the proposal, seems to me that his speech has some vengeful motives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u136	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Mr. Petrov, come in for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u137	Thank you for giving me the opportunity. I respect Mr. Georgiev as a person who reads, who is interested, one of the people in the Commission is who gives reasoned proposals, but I do not accept his election behaviour with regard to me that I almost didn't read anything and I don't understand and not only that, but he mentioned my name for the second time. I would just like to say to all MPs that in Bulgaria, once again, there is no law that regulates the branch organizations. The fact that somewhere it is said that the work by a branch organisation should be supported does not mean that the group that has gathered together is a branch organization to keep that in mind, and this group, which is, to say the BSP's fort in its political struggles, should not be regarded as such because there is no legal basis for it to be considered a branch organisation. I repeat, there is no law for branch organizations in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u138	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u139	Madam President, in the manner of conduct. First of all, it's good to see the transcript of what I've said to the two colleagues. Second, to you. You had to interrupt Mr. Petrov, as he made suggestions regarding the branch organizations. Look, the National Branch Union... [[Reply from the OP: "This is a statement, not a way of holding it! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u140	By the way, what...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u141	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u142	...to me?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u143	The National Beekeeper Union, as well as the National Wine and Wine Chamber, are registered under the Non-Profit Legal Entities Act, so there is no way what Mr. Petrov says as an argument for some branch organizations. [[Replying from the OP: "In the manner of conduct! "]] By this logic we must also close down the National Wine and Wine Chamber, if this is the policy of the government.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u144	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. I didn't understand exactly what I was doing wrong, because Mr. Petrov spoke extremely well of you. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote Mr. Zablyanov's proposal for para. 3 from the proposal of Mr. Chavdar Velinov and Mr. Valeri Zablyanov. They voted 106 MPs: for 7, against 74, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the new § 1. 110 MPs voted: 92 against 12, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u145	Proposal from the MPs Chavdar Velinov and Valeri Jablyanov: A new § 2 is being created. ..................................................... Article 6 is amended as Art. 6. The beekeeping council: 1. participate in the preparation and implementation of state policy and European and national programmes in Bulgarian beekeeping through participation in working groups and committees and through the members of the beekeeping associations in the municipalities in all forms of development and support of beekeeping; 2. assist the beekeepers and the functioning of their bees through the beekeeping associations in the municipalities, which decide together with the municipal authorities for the accommodation and registration of new bees; avoid overcrowding with bee families; the safe conduct of the plant protection activities of farmers and forestry and the protection of bee families; 3. participate in the development of draft regulations, standards and standard methods of analysis related to beekeeping and bee products; 4. propose to the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry ways of allocating funds for the development and support of beekeeping; 5. participate in the development of programmes with other state institutions in relation to maintaining environmental balance in nature and biodiversity related to pollination carried out by bees; 6. coordinate beekeeping associations in municipalities in their activities with private veterinarians and municipal veterinarians in the health-prophylactic activity of apiaries; 7. participate in a discussion of construction projects and technological plans for afforestation of suitable honey plants of municipal, state and private terrains; 8. assist in organising and conducting training courses in the field of beekeeping together with other state institutions and legal entities; 9. assist in the organization and development of biological beekeeping; 10. performs other functions in Bulgarian beekeeping, which do not contradict the laws of the country. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Maria Belova and Irena Dimova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... Articles 6 and 7 shall be repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u146	I open the debate on the proposal for a new § 2 adopted by the Commission. Statements? Mr. Zablyanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u147	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Chairman, my statement under § 2, art. 6 supposed to me and Mr. Chavdar Velinov, I will combine it with a procedural statement in the manner of conduct. Under the Rules of the National Assembly at second reading from the stands are read all the proposals received. In my previous speech, I proposed to Mrs. Belova to read the proposal of the MPs Chavdar Velinov and Valeri Jablyanov, as para. 3 stands out substantially, meaningfully from the Commission's proposal, and in no way is our proposal integrated into it. I didn't understand why it wasn't read from the stand, I don't understand why it wasn't put to the vote, as the Rules require? If this is the way legislation will be made with infringement, including the formal rules of adoption of legislation, this is not a good finale for the Forty-fourth National Assembly. I do not know what to do in this situation and what to recommend, because you did not lead the meeting, it was led by Mrs. Karayancheva, but our proposal with Mr. Velinov was not read and was not voted on. It's in the report. I suggest we get back to the previous paragraph. Find a way to make that happen. That's my procedural proposal. I will proceed shortly to my statement under Article 2 (2). 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u148	Mr. Zablyanov, first of all, you have grounds for claim regarding the Report. That would be the right thing to do. 3 to be declared, to be written that it was not accepted and to be voted on, but it was voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u149	No, we are voting on the Commission's proposal, and our proposal has not been read as a separate proposal and is not put to a vote that must be taken under Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u150	Was the separate para voted on? 3?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u151	No, not al. 3. Velinov and Zablyanov's proposal has not been voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u152	That's exactly what it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u153	It hasn't been voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u154	It's been voted out.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u155	It hasn't been voted on. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u156	Was it voted out? [[Definitions.]] Well, we voted it out! We voted her out and she was rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u157	A separate proposal has not been voted on. There was a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u158	We voted, Mr. Zablyanov. We voted separately. 3 and then § 1. It was, really. So...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u159	I'll ask for a check.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u160	Regarding the Report, check it out. With regard to him, you have no reason, but it has been voted separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u161	On the report I have reason, I have reason to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u162	Get to the point now under § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u163	I'm moving on now, but I'd like to make a note of greater precision in the conduct of the second reading of the bills. It's not the first time you've done this thing. I'm, uh...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u164	Mr. Zablyanov, please get to the point!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u165	...stayed away from the stands and it is difficult to go out and slow the National Assembly down by walking back and forth, but this gives no reason to lead as you see fit.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u166	Mr. Zablyanov, get to the point! Even more, you have no reason to criticize the leadership of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u167	Well, how can I not have a reason? You just said that...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u168	We are not fighting with you, I am explaining to you the law which gives me the Rules, you have the right to have a claim to the Commission report and not to the lead. In fact, the lead is reading the report and voting on what the Commission has proposed for voting.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u169	Mr Vice-President, for some time I have read the reports and to tell you: the Vice-President or Chairman is following the reading of the Report, following all the texts and telling the one who leads the reading of the Second Reading Report to where to stop to have a vote. So you can't have missed that text being missed by the reader from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u170	Okay, please move on to § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u171	Your procedure isn't accurate, it's not correct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u172	Of course it's fine.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u173	Of course it's not. I'm moving on to § 2, t. 6. The Commission's proposal is that the whole § 2 be dismissed, namely because it contains the actual proposal to change the entire beekeeping sector and the way it is managed. In § 2, Art. 6 in seven points are written and formulated the functions of the Beekeeping Council, which we proposed in the previous paragraph. In the version proposed by the Commission, the functions shall be determined by rules established by the Minister. We propose that this be done with the Law because it is known that these authorities, which are created to the individual ministers, can hardly be balanced in power if there is no explicit record of the function of these bodies in the Law. In the first paragraph we discussed, it was about the degree and level of representation, it was about the degree of representation. In the second paragraph of the Law, we propose to describe and vote on the specific functions of this Council because the creation of just one body, without functions written in the Law, makes it a priori not working. That's our offer. We do not understand the meaning, we do not understand the arguments by which the Committee on Agriculture and Food rejects our proposal. We've come to know the objections, and they're basically in point. 6 and so on. 7, where it is a conflict with the Animal Health Act. In that case, in order to avoid this conflict, we propose to keep our proposal in § 2, Article 2. 6, to vote on the first two points as function t. 1 participates in the preparation and implementation of state policy, etc. 2 assists beekeepers and the functioning of their bees through beekeeping associations, which jointly decide municipal authorities for accommodation and registration of new bees. In our view, it is not appropriate to accept the existence of an authority and to keep all its functional purpose in the hands of the Minister............................................................................................... The ministers are changing, the beekeeping industry remains, the relations in it are not regulated well and let us with these amendments that we are making today and which we are running into as you notice, corporate and other underwater objections on the left side of the hall, make sure that the body is representative, functioning, functioning and the next minister, whoever he is, has one tool for the development of state policy and for the management of the industry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u174	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Are there lines? I can't see. A statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u175	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleagues, § 2, art. 6 is nothing more than the editing of the existing texts, which is practically meaningless at all the proposal of colleagues to close the National Beekeeper Union. I absolutely declare that I have no personal interests, Mr. Zablyanov! The National Beekeeper Union is a legal entity and can assume rights and obligations. Such things cannot be awarded to a collective body to the Minister. Alinea 1 contradicts the proposal of colleagues for a change in art. 5, para. 1. and they propose a beekeeping council that will assist the Minister in the conduct and implementation of state policy. Now there's some split and they're offering a completely different thing in art. 6, para. 1.. the preparation and implementation of state policy. How do we assess the proposal that the Council will participate in the work of the working group and committees? Perhaps the President of the Council, who is the Minister, will participate. Those were indeed the rights of the National Beekeeper Union so far. With similar proposals, colleagues show that the closure of the National Beekeeper Union is a mistake. What about the proposal of colleagues that this council will coordinate the work of municipal associations under para. Six?! This has been the Union's obligation so far, and the Council cannot have such powers. Unique is the text of para. Eight, more like comic. There is no greater evidence that so far these were the powers of the National Beekeeper Union, which in no way can be transferred to the Council. The main objective of GERB and the United Patriarchs is precisely that of removing these powers, which so far had the sector in art. 6 of the Beekeeping Act through the National Beekeeper Union, that is, you cannot remove these rights and not close down the National Beekeeper Union. Taking the rights under art. Article 6 and, above all, Article 6. 6, para. 1 and para. 3 combined with the closure of the NPBS, leave the sector without real participation in the taking and implementation of the policies in the sector. That was precisely the goal of the legislator in 2003 and therefore the special law gives special powers to the NBS. This has so far been the only mechanism for the sector to be heard and to be able to offer its views. The change in art. 7 is required by the case led by the National Beekeepers' Union against the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests and this is a pathetic attempt to cover the problem, which, however, creates other problems. My fellow Members, in the Commission I have made a proposal art. 7 down. Listen to what the current law says: 7. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry prepares annual national programmes in the field of beekeeping in accordance with the regulations of the European Community. 7 and what I read to you. I'm proposing again. 7 to remain in the Law. It does not contradict anything you have bet on destroying the Beekeeping sector. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u176	- What's the line? I can't see. A statement? Mrs. Bachvarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u177	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! A law so peaceful is turning into a stand of opposition, and I believe that the industry itself does not need it. He needed a new law, but in the end, as my colleagues said, proposed a simple change, as this change did not solve almost any problems, but created quite serious conflicts. I would like to return to the proposal relating to the functions of the Council. So, an advisory council on beekeeping is being established and it is a fact that it did not exist until now. However, the establishment of this council is only in the area of the fact that the Minister of Agriculture will determine who participates in it and its rules of administration, but what functions will this Council have. I would like to draw attention to laws with similar texts, which we have previously adopted in the National Assembly and which include advisory councils: the Law on livestock breeding and 60, 70 or 80 representative organisations participate, and it is written down what functions they have and what decisions they can adopt; the Law on roses, which was adopted two years ago, establishing a board of service on roses, in which they are similarly written functions; the Law on tobacco and tobacco products, even things are a little more complicated and besides the functions that are written, there are thresholds of representation for nationally represented branch organisations. My colleagues are right that we do not have a Law on Branch Organizations and by changing the current laws we are trying to make some form of representation to make decisions for the benefit of one industry or another. This is hardly the most working option, but at this stage the legislation solves the problems of each of the industries. They are specific and there is an opportunity for each of the industries, from the unions, from organizations to present their views and to make decisions. Another point is that these are recommended solutions and hardly have their binding powers, but in the end they are the one thing that creates a prerequisite for consolidating all those presented in the relevant sector with decisions that can work in favour of them. In addition, the cancellation of art. Six doesn't solve anything at all. Article 6 must be adopted at least for the fact that the Advisory Council must have one, two or three functions, including an opinion on the Beekeeper Programme. It is one of the opportunities for support of the sector and is perhaps the most serious financial resource against the backdrop of all the other measures it has in the Rural Development Programme. If the industry does not have the opportunity to speak on the Beekeeper program, it seems to me that we will really stumble into the situation when the administration will decide what is good for the industry and what is not, despite the objections or despite the problems that may occur during its implementation. To conclude, I really believe that the functions of the Beekeeping Council and the Advisory Council should have them in the Law, because otherwise, only the adoption of the Advisory Council is desirable and without absolutely no purpose. The cancellation of art. 6 and 7 also raises serious objections, and I believe it must be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u178	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. I very much ask the MPs to put on their masks, especially the group of the immortals of the BSP, at the bottom of the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u179	Come on, enough with the masks!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u180	It's not enough! I'll punish you next time. Put on your mask, Mr. Nedyalkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the unaccepted proposal to create a new § 2 by the MPs Chavdar Velinov and Valeri Jablyanov. They voted 107 MPs: 28, against 62, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on Mrs Maria Belova's proposal for the creation of a new § 2 adopted by the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: 77, against 23, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Belova, come in for the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u181	Proposal from the MPs Bürhan Abas and Imren Mehmedova: The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Chavdar Velinov and Valeri Jablyanov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become § 3: .................................................. Article 8 is amended as follows: Art. 8. (1) Bee families shall be accommodated in bees registered in accordance with art. 137 of the Animal Health Act. Owners or apiaries users shall submit an application on a model basis to the Director of the Regional Food Safety Directorate concerned. (2) Owners or users of beekeepers of personal holdings shall submit the application under para. 1 via the mayor or the mayor's deputy, no fee shall be collected for registration. (3) The permanent bees shall be with enclosure, with a fence in the regulated land properties providing/insuring the safety of the site and non-allowing free access and passage of persons and animals and marked with the registration plate of the apiary. (4) Permanent bees located in forest areas may have a enclosure which does not constitute construction within the meaning of the Law on Construction in the territory and on which the registration plate of the bee is placed. (5) For permanent bees located in protected areas within the meaning of the Law on Protected Areas, the requirements of para. 3 and 4 shall not apply. According to § 2 there is a proposal from the MPs Chavdar Velinov and Valeri Jablyanov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is canceled. 2. In para. 3: (a) c. 1 words are deleted and after the word "BULSTAT" a slash is placed and added "EIC" is added; (b) c. 3 at the end shall be added either the place where they are moved (city), with the number and date of the animal health certificate. (c) c. 5 the final addition shall be added to the movement of the beekeepers in mobile beekeeping. (d) point 6 is repealed; (e) c. 7 is finally added with specified GPS coordinates. (f) point 8 is repealed. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 6. According to § 5, there is a proposal from the MPs Bürhan Abase and Imren Mehmedova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37 words are not registered or deleted and the words are deleted. 1 or para. The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 May 2011 According to § 6 there is a proposal from the MPs Bürhan Abase and Imren Mehmedova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In the additional provision, Paragraph 1 establishes a point. 14 and 15: It's 14 years old. "Treaty beekeeping" is a place where beekeeping families are temporarily accommodated to practice mobile beekeeping. 15. Beelin is a beekeeper in which beekeeping families are kept for the purpose of producing bee honey and personal consumption products that are not available on the market.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u182	Thank you. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Abase.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u183	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The importers of this Bill state in their motives that the aim of the Bill is to reduce the administrative burden on business and ease the procedures for farmers. This is true because, in the current order, the beekeepers had two beekeepers, one that was done in the town halls, and one that was in the districts of Agriculture and Forests, under the Veterinary Practice Act. With this bill, importers remove the registration in the town halls by requiring all beekeepers to make registration under the Law on Veterinary Practice in the Districts of Agriculture and Forests. Our proposal relates precisely to the spirit of this bill to reduce the administrative burden on small and small farmers. In fact, our proposal, colleagues, does not cancel the official order of registration in the general order, as all farmers are registered, but makes only one addition: the owners and users of beekeepers, personal holdings, submit their application for registration through the mayor or the mayor's deputy, and no fee is collected for registration. The addition is only that small beekeepers who produce honey for personal use submit the same set of documents not to the Regional Directorate of Agriculture and Forests and through the mayor they respectively reach the same addressee. The large beekeepers who have 100, 200 hives, colleagues, regularly go to the district offices. They regularly participate in the support programmes with both national funds and European funds under the National Programme "Beekeeping" and so on. But the small beekeepers, those who grow five-six hives for private use, have neither the opportunity nor the ability to go to the district city, which somewhere is 100 km away from their settlements. So with this proposal, we officially support small farmers. I suppose all my fellow Members will agree, because in the programmes of all parliamentary parties represented in this Parliament it is written that they are all for the support of small farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u184	Thank you, Mr. Abase. Are there lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If I don't have enough time, I'm going to ask you for a little more time, since three paragraphs have still been read. Dear colleagues, the cancellation of the current article. 8, para. 1, which concerned the registration of bees in the town halls, is a serious retreat from the idea of a special law at all. It is this registration of property in accordance with art. 1 of the Beekeeping Act gave legal certainty to beekeepers. We need to be clear that instead of raising this legal certainty that the Law provided to them by raising it to a higher level in municipalities, we do the opposite. Each registration of property will be property, car or anything else with a clear identification gives legal certainty. That is why the Penal Code also contains a section "Invasion against property as a legal institute." So far, any attack on a beehive has been attributed by theft, by deliberate fire, by malicious acts, by poisoning, qualified as a crime against property. The court's last practice was precisely in this direction and was likely to become permanent and validated. This is precisely what led the importer to propose its annulment in violation of Article 1. 1 of the Beekeeping Act. This will solve the possible conflicts of poisoning and the indulgence introduced by the Ministry of Agriculture for Poisoners in quotes called the Electronic Disclosure System, which is not yet in operation. The proposed text, however, recognises one fact about the current illegal registration of apiaries as an establishment. There hasn't been such a legal delegation so far. The Ministry of Agriculture supported beekeepers to register according to the order of art. 137 in spite of the apparent violation. Now this problem is cleared, but the bad taste remains for the actions of the Ministry of Agriculture, which have forced beekeepers to register without having this legal obligation, and if they do not, they will tolerate some other sanctions. This was mainly during the time of the management of GERB and the United Patriarchs. The Ministry does not provide an answer to this question, as well as to the fact that, apart from an establishment of establishment within the meaning of § 33 of the Animal Health Act, we also have an establishment within the meaning of the Animal Health Act. Instead of solving the problem, however, as the importer believes, an even greater chaos is created. In the text is misused the definition of a beekeeping family. According to European Union Delegated Regulation No 1366 we have a definition of a beehive: Bee families are accommodated in beehives, and they are situated in a certain territory. This will enable the registrations made as contrary to Delegated Regulation to be challenged in the future. Let someone explain how bee families are placed in bees under the Beekeeping Act. Beelin is a place on which bee families are accommodated along with the equipment available. This only shows that changes to the Law are made because of some other objectives unrelated to the interests of beekeeping, but rather to serve current or future corruption practices. As regards § 4, which becomes § 6. This is another proof that the two breeding permits issued so far have problems. In this sense, the National Sectoral Beekeeping Union has prompted a statement of cancellation and that they cannot be issued in accordance with Regulation 2010/20 concerning the content of breeding programmes but for large animals and pigs. As regards § 5, which becomes § 7. Dear colleagues, what does "temporary" mean? For how long? The current practice of seeing trailers and wagons with hives on them will it continue? Why aren't they a place to stay? Does that mean they're no longer allowed? What is meant by the cliché "practicing" and how this refers to the definition of mobile beekeeping in the Delegated Regulation: "Beekeeping" is the movement and temporary accommodation of beekeeping families close to honey vegetation for use as bee grazing and for pollination of entomophiles and wild plants. Well, if there's no room, what do we do? We're gonna leave entomophile plants without pollination?! It's just another nonsense. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u186	Are there lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Mrs. Bachvarova, come in for a statement. I'm reminding you of the masks again, please. Please do not call from a place in violation of Article 1. 155, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u187	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to make my speech on § 3, where it is in fact the basis of the amendment of the Law, i.e. reducing the administrative burden by removing the registration for me this is not a registration, but rather a notification to the mayor and is replaced by a registration under art. 137 of the Animal Health Act. It is absolutely impossible for us to talk about reducing the administrative burden, especially for small farms. Why? Because in February 2020, we adopted amendments to the Veterinary Activity Act, and in this law we adopted what are personal holdings and the requirements for their registration. It says that small farms should apply to the mayor or the mayor's deputy. What order is next? The mayor's deputy is due to go to the Directorate of the Regional Food Safety Directorate in ten days. The Directorate of the Regional Food Safety Directorate will make a commission with a veterinarian and specialists who will go to the respective locality. Once they go to the respective settlement, within 14 days they will think if everything is okay. If they decide that everything is okay, then the procedure goes, within two or three months they give permission, but if they claim to have no fence or something fifth, sixth they make prescriptions, they go back to the town hall or the respective locality where the bees are, and only after that they issue an authorisation, with a number, veterinary registration, permanent address, species and number of animals, objects and so on. Explain to me how beekeepers with one or two bee families have to go through this whole procedure so they can register their bees as their own holdings? Apart from that, a private holding is defined as something that satisfies its own needs, that is correct. But how many bee families satisfy a household? Two, three, five, six, how do we determine them? Such a definition does not appear in the proposed text in the Additional Provisions in the definition of personal holding. From this point of view, we do not accept that all bee families should be registered under the Animal Health Act. This will create a prerequisite for a large part of small farms not to register at all, from which Bulgaria will lose. Why would he lose? Because Bulgaria based on how many beekeepers there are, how many bee families it protects its funds to the European Commission for the financial resources of the beekeeping programme. If you stand up at the end of the year, not with 13,000 households and large farms, but with 5 or 6 registered, this means that the European Union programme will be financially reduced twice. There should not be experiments and placed under a common denominator all that is in personal holdings should be inserted into a Law that will not work and which will create much more problems for the beekeepers themselves. They will continue their activities, but neither the Ministry nor anyone will have any idea what this is about as numbers and respectively as the production of honey bees. Therefore, this order that is proposed, we do not accept it and we believe that another procedure should be sought, and the only one is in the town hall to keep a list of beekeepers and it should be sufficient reason to know those who produce honey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u188	Thank you. Are there lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I shall vote: the texts of § 1, which shall become § 3 as amended by the Commission; § 2, which shall become § 4 as amended by the Commission; paragraphs 3 and 4, which shall become paragraphs 5 and 6 by importer; and the texts of paragraphs 5 and 6, which shall become paragraphs 7 and 8 by the Commission. They voted 116 MPs: for 85, against 31, there is no abstention. The texts of paragraphs 1 to 6 which change with a new numbering from 3 to 8 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u189	Proposal from the MPs Maria Belova and Irena Dimova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up a section of "Concluding provisions'. The Commission proposes to establish § 9: ..................................................... In the Law for amendment and supplement of the Law for support of farmers (prom., SG No. ), in the Final Provisions § 70 is repealed........................................................................................................ A proposal from the MP Alexander Sabanov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Bürhan Abas and Imren Mehmedova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 10: ..................................................... In the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37c is created para. 18.. 21: By 25 July the State-owned enterprises under art. 163 of the Forests Act provides to the Regional Forests and the Municipal Councils a list of land properties in forest areas, where activities under the Forests Act and the Wildlife Hunting and Conservation Act will be carried out in the following business year. (19) Based on the list under para. 18 Committee on para. 1 lays down the properties of the field roads to provide access to the respective land properties in forest areas for carrying out activities under the Forests Act and the Wildlife Hunting and Conservation Act and informs in writing the relevant state enterprise under art. 163 of the Forest Law. The designated Polish roads shall not be included in the request to the municipal council and in the order under para. 16. (20) The persons who use the property shall have access to the Polish roads under para. 19, they are obliged at their own expense to remove any damage to the property that has occurred as a result of their activity. (21) The funds collected by the order of para. 16 as well as the imposed fines and property penalties under art. 38, para. 2 and 3, received at the municipality's account, are spent on the order of the mayor of the municipality to trace and maintain the Polish roads, as well as to clean self-forested agricultural properties, municipal property. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 2 after the word "supplied', the "supplied' shall not fulfil an obligation under art. 37c, para. 20 and a comma is placed; (b) in para. 3 words up to 5000 and up to 10 000 shall be replaced by 5 000. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 42 is (3) The Mayor of a municipality which does not comply with art. 37c, para. 21, is punished with a fine from 5000 to 10 000 BGN A proposal from the MP Alexander Matsurev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 11: ..................................................... In the Law on Food (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15 t. 1 is amended as follows: "1." introduce European Union directives on materials and articles intended to come into contact with food; 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 2 after the words (b) paragraph 3 is amended as follows: This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. . (c) in para. 4 the words "supplier" in the territory of "supplier" shall be replaced by "supplier" in the territory of "supplier" and "supplier" in the territory of "supplier" in the territory of "supplier" in the territory of "supplier" in 3. Article 81 is amended as follows: Art. 81. (1) The Council of Ministers shall issue a regulation on food supplements introducing European Union law concerning: 1. nutrients (vitamins and minerals) that can be used in the production of food supplements; 2. substances with nutritional or physiological effects that may be used in the production of food supplements; 3. criteria for purity of nutrients intended for use in food supplements; 4. the information to be noted when labelling food additives; 5. plants and parts of plants which cannot be added to food supplements; 6. substances that cannot be added to food supplements. (2) The Minister of Health shall, together with the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and, in coordination with the Minister of Youth and Sport, issue a regulation on the requirements for food intended for use in intensive muscle load. Proposal from the National Representative Alexander Sabanov: ????????????????? In the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Property (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 32 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 2 the words "up to five" shall be replaced by "up to five" and "up to five" shall be replaced by "up to five" the words 2. In para. 3 the words "cut-off" and "cut-off" and the words "of a larger number of trees and "cut-off" are saved. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u190	Thank you. I open the debates on the name of the section "Concluding provisions" as well as on the texts of the new paragraphs 9, 10 and 11 and the unsupported proposal of the MP Aleksandar Sabanov. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Mr. Sabanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u191	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The texts proposed by me in the law on ownership and use of agricultural land are similar to those of my colleagues who made almost the same proposals that the Commission actually supported. For the audience, I want to explain what we do with these texts. These texts resolve a long-standing conflict between farmers and people who acquire wood in the areas of forests, which, when there is no road, of course, pass through agricultural fields, destroy agricultural property and agricultural production and almost always every year in each land there are at least two or three conflicts between these two countries. I would like to say from this tribune that both sides are right, because we know that municipalities rent out these Polish roads that people who manage the forest have to go through, i.e. those who acquire wood. On the other hand, both sides are in their own right. With the texts we offer, in fact the state-owned enterprises that manage the forests in the Republic of Bulgaria will give exactly and clearly which roads will be used in agricultural properties to avoid this conflict. The other part of this proposal is the mayors who receive through their municipal councils sums such as rents for Polish roads, which are generally municipal, to use the amounts for cleaning, tracking and maintenance of these roads, because at the moment many of the roads are overgrown by the belts that are expanding, respectively the road enters the agricultural levels of a farmer, which creates problems. Many years since the beginning of democracy, this thing has not been foreseen and efforts have not been made to clear this problem, and I think the Agriculture Commission has done so with joint efforts, because, again, I say, there is also a proposal from other MPs from other political forces. Regarding the second proposal I have made in the Agricultural Property Conservation Act, I think it is incorrect from the BSP group, after commenting on the whole thing and in the media space, including Mr. Belev as a conductor of this, not to mention the false news, in the end, if you think about it and consider yourself as MPs, the opportunity that he was giving and which is currently giving the Agricultural Property Conservation Act since 1995 has not been changed. Since 1995, according to Mr. Belev, 300,000. Cube. m trees are chopping in farmland because it is the logging of trees in farmland. At 300 thousand ccs they are chopping and at the moment this will continue as the Commission did not support the proposal. It will continue the logging of these trees in farmland. The proposal I made is the opposite of stopping, not allowing the mayor in larger territories than a decare to allow a large number of trees to be cut down. However, in this regard, too, and for not being supported by the Commission, I withdraw it so that there are no further outbursts of people who have not even bothered to read what I have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u192	Thank you. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Sabanov! I'll take account of art. 32, which you accused us of not knowing we didn't read, that we were talking some bullshit. But I will quote to you the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture, not my opinion or any of my colleagues, but the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture on your question, to see how they understood you. See what it says: With the proposal made, any restrictions on cutting down trees in agricultural lands, regardless of the area and number of trees.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u194	That proposal has already been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u195	Look, you pulled him out, I heard very well, but you accused us of not knowing we were making some kind of attack on you. This is the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture. I am obliged by this tribune to protect the Ministry in this case. Come on, leave us alone, but the Ministry obviously didn't understand you either. Let me read one more sentence: "There is no reason for what the purpose of the norm is and what the long-term consequences are, as well as an impact assessment. This is contrary to the efforts of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and the Forest Executive Agency for the proper management of forests regardless of the type of territory. Management implies their inclusion in forest areas in order to implement the planning and sustainable development standards applied in the Forests Act. The same is in line with the objectives of the European Union for sustainable forestry planning and in the light of the Green transaction announced in the previous year within the Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u196	Thank you. Is there another line? I won't. Hole, Mr. Sabanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u197	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Georgiev, I am very pleased that you have actually read the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture. The Ministry of Agriculture took this view at the last minute before the Commission, and under the pressure of the thousands, the hundreds of letters that were made. I will not comment on how competent they are actually speaking from the Ministry of Agriculture, as the rapporteur on this topic in the Commission was the head of the Forest Executive Agency. This isn't about woods. However, if it is so competent and so thought by the Ministry of Agriculture over the last 26 years, in the words of ecologists, the 3 million. $700,000. If it burns, it would have been a fact, they would have already been cut down. The Ministry of Agriculture is not the factor that does something in this direction, but on the contrary. With its inaction and with this view, it actually continues the wicked practice of cutting down large forests in agricultural lands. Because under the current Act, I say again, the mayor, if he decides to cut down the municipal forest, which is located in the agricultural territory, he must submit an application to his subordinate Director of the Municipal Service..................................................................................... Do you think he'll say no? Of course not. So at the moment this opportunity exists and the fairy tales of the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture they cared about, almost how they cared about the Bulgarian forest and how they think about it I can actually advise them from the Ministry of Agriculture at least to stop illegal logging in the regions where the current minister, of course, as a minister for the second year, continues. Illegal logging is the problem of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests as a whole. It's about farmland that's become self-forested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u198	Thank you, Mr. Sabanov. Any other speeches? Mr. Abase, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Firstly, I would like to congratulate my colleague Sabanov for withdrawing this proposal and I will stop commenting on it. About our proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, recent conflicts have arisen, which are caused by two parallel actions of two institutions, which are under one hat, the hat of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests. It is ridiculous for the two institutions in their actions, in their procedures to cause problems between people, provided they are under the same hat and we cannot solve them. Namely, you know, this is the point of legislation to allow public relations that arise in the course of the work. Our proposal is very similar to that of colleagues. On the one hand, the districts are making for each business year the agricultural and forestry services and the municipal services. On the other hand, our state-owned forest enterprises are auctioning for the designated sections, which are embedded in the forest project of the municipality concerned, as a result of which the two parties obtain a document.. One has the right to cut into the designated section of the tender won, while the others have the right to work the Polish roads as they have concluded a contract with the municipality and have paid the municipality. At some point both sides are right, but the one who works for the forestry company, he has to go through this level to get to the forest section that will cut. By the way, the idea isn't just for those companies that cut. State-owned forest enterprises, our undertakings which carry out certain activities in forests, are also not able to access their own forests. So this proposal also solves this case for state forest enterprises. How can you solve the matter? Our proposal says so: when the arrays of use for each business year are made, an employee of the state forestry undertaking must be present, giving an opinion at least one Polish route that serves the section that will be cut this year, not to be included in the contracts of the municipality and to be rented out in order to have access to the forestry undertaking and the one that has won the tender for logging. In this way this conflict will be resolved and once and for all it will end, because life shows us that they enter into a very hot dispute, sometimes they also come to a fight. With this proposal to improve the two parallel procedures in the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, we believe that we will solve this conflict, so that everyone can safely work their own agricultural producers and the one who has won the auction section for logging. I think it's good for both sides. I ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u200	Thank you, Mr. Abase. Are there any lines to Mr. Abase's statement? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the name of the section "Concluding provisions', as well as the texts of the new paragraphs 9, 10 and 11 as amended by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 81 against 9, no abstentions. The texts of the paragraphs have been adopted as well as the name of the section.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u201	Proposal by the National Representative Rosen Ivanov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 12: ................................................................................... In the Water Act (prom., SG, No. ...) the following additions shall be made: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 is created t. 6: It's six. a registration card number for farmers, where applicable. (b) in para. 2: (aa) c. 1 shall be added at the end when the payment is not made by electronic means. (bb) c. 2 a reference to the personalised data of the property and the administrative authority of issue shall be added at the end of which information may be collected by the official means; (c) a new item shall be created. 4. "4." a document demonstrating the technical inability to access an irrigation system where the applicant is a farmer. (c) in para. 6 is created t. 5. It's five o'clock. a document from a water supplier for irrigation in the territory certifying the technical inability to provide the necessary quantities of the existing irrigation system or the inability to access an irrigation system where the applicant is a farmer. (d) in para. 13 is created t. 5. It's five o'clock. by electronic means and without paying a fee an up-to-date sketch or map of the properties where the technical services of municipalities, Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre services and municipal agriculture services will operate. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 2, in the text before t. 1 shall be added at the end of the application for a farmer within 10 days. (b) in para. 4 shall be added at the end within three days. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62a, para. 1, after the words "Art. 61, para. 2 "The agricultural sector is added within a 10-day period'. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1, after the words "Art. 64, para. 1s is added for farmers within a 7-day period. (b) in para. 2 is finally added for farmers by 14 days. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) in the text before t. 1 the following shall be added after the word "Species' for farmers within a three-day period. b) is created t. 6: It's six. the relevant Regional Directorate for Agriculture, where the applicant is a farmer. 6. In Annex 1 to art. 13, p. 1 is created t. 29a: 29a. Ovcharitsa Proposal by the National Representative Stanislava Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. The funds received by 24 June 2016 including on the account of the Environmental Management Organisation, representing a remainder of the revenue from the sale of greenhouse gas emission allowances from installations by auction under the Climate Change Restriction Act, shall be spent by means of an act of the Council of Ministers for activities or payment of activities carried out relating to environmental protection, including the fulfilment of obligations arising from the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u202	Thank you. Statements? Mr. Ermenkov, come in. Please have the MPs put on their masks.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u203	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will take account of the proposal to include Ovcharitsa dam on the list of the Water Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u204	Annex No 1, Art. 1. 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u205	Yeah, that's right. The first thing I want to say is basically. Once again, we are witnessing how, between first and second readings, and not in writing, but on a foot in the Commission, proposals are made that are neither justified nor motivated, nor take into account the possibility of such decisions having an impact on the national security of the state. Because when we are talking about the Dam of Ovcharitsa, we are talking about a dam that is in the system of NEK, which primarily serves for the needs of NEK and for the needs of the TPP Maritsa East 2 It is part of the system for drainage and prevention of floods in the Mini Maritsa East, which are part of the critical infrastructure of Bulgaria. And when such proposals are made in this way, first of all, it is avoided that all arguments that are against such a proposal are expressed, and secondly, there is an impression of some interests that are being defended in some opaque way. Therefore, I ask very much that those who have imported this thing, or that they withdraw it, or that the MPs do not support it, because in the end we are talking about energy, we are talking about security, we are talking about doing everything we can both the mines and the plants at the Maritsa East Center to function as long as possible, at the same time we are hitting the entire system. In addition, this dam is owned by NEK. NEC is a state-owned undertaking, but it is a commercial undertaking and any property transferred from somewhere else from the commercial undertaking to other offices should be linked to the corresponding compensation at a value that this dam provides. Because, among other things, let us not forget the financial situation of NEK, let us not forget that its assets are included as a pledge and as a guarantee for loans that have been withdrawn, and any such withdrawal of property from NEK leads to a reduction in its creditability and confidence in creditors. In addition, I would rather agree, for example, if this way you had submitted a proposal API to return the money to NEK for Once again, I call: do not support this proposal, because we are playing with the country's electricity security, hence and with its national security. As for the proposal for the money that has been received, this is the last proposal that has been made and which has also been adopted, for the creation of a new paragraph, I would like to tell you that once again we are creating a prerequisite for the Council of Ministers with a decree to spend money. I don't know if this is the best way to spend public resources, I don't know if this is the way we, at the end of this National Assembly, should give a carte blanche to the Council of Ministers, and more precisely to the Prime Minister, of course, to spend money again with a decree, without control, without the appropriate procedures. He's not gonna pay off these guys' activities, he's gonna pay off the other guys 'cause they're more sympathetic. This is not a way of functioning the state and it seems to me that this proposal should not be accepted either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u206	Thank you. - What's the line? I don't see anyone. Any other speeches? Mr. Apostolov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u207	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, you surprised me. You knocked me down with what you said out of that stands. You may not have heard of Decree No 181 of the Council of Ministers, where with the number of national security sites are listed canals, channels, pump stations You haven't read that decree, I'm sorry. I'm sorry about your white hair, too, but I can't help but say that your sinful mouths from this tribune are uttering absolute lies. [[Noise and lines.]] Because, Mr. Ermenkov, we have asked private government property to upload this dam to the upper category, to be uploaded to Annex 1 and to appear as the fifty-fourth public state property dam, lifting its category. And how would you explain to me that the other water farms to the remaining 53 dams are obliged to submit a million cubic meters per month on an annual basis of about 12 million cubic metres, to be transferred through..Koprinka to this list, in this Annex 1, to be transferred through....to be transferred through the tunnels of Tunja and through two pump stations and through another 75 km of channel, to reach the dam of Ovcharitsa, which is private state property at this time? And we want to lift the ball to this dam and it becomes an element of the national security of the state, as you said, because everything else around it is an element of national security. There are no other ideas on this thing. Maybe these ideas are only in your heads. And I'll tell you one more thing. I pretty much understand what the problem is, Mr. Ermenkov, but let's not hang him here and tell our fellow MPs what this is about. I have made a check and it may be that this private state property dam included in NEK's assets may be at stake, it may be mortgaged by the company, and when it rises in a higher category of public government property, could it be so that, if the applicant, the creditor asks for it to be requited, that is to say, the State would have to give money to buy it out so that someone else wouldn't take it? But by lifting it in this category, that hypothesis is over. Yes, that's the truth, Lord Ermenkov. And again, I tell you, everything else is a figment of your imagination, because by giving water to this cooler, we guarantee national security. Because by asking for this one million cubic per month, we are sending to this radiator, which is not reflected in Decree No 181 of the Council of Ministers for priority sites from 2009, guaranteeing national security, guaranteeing it the water level at an appropriate point and cota, so that it can be a real cooling and in it also pumping facilities to transfer unnecessary water masses from the drainage of the mines. So there's no drama. Drama is in other things, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u208	Leave him alone, Mr. Ermenkov. You're making a statement on the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u209	Okay, I apologize, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u210	He keeps pushing you to talk to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u211	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u212	That's a good point, that's a good point. Leave Ermenkov alone.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u213	I'm not done yet. Do I have time, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u214	You do, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u215	Perhaps there are other things we should talk about about, which 2009 you have done in the Water Act for a single article. 47, where with a change of Stanishev you introduced a monopoly on the Devin locality and the areas of the Devinian mineral springs in the service of private interests.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u216	By the lyrics, Mr. Apostolov. - What's the line? [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] Mr. Ermenkov, you are also entitled to a personal explanation, and you are also entitled to the reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u217	And I'm entitled to a personal explanation?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u218	You're right.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u219	I'm not gonna make a personal explanation, I'm gonna give it a chance to be answered, but I didn't lie, I didn't do anything as a suggestion. What I would like to draw attention to is that I thank you for your concern for the Dam of Ovcharitsa today, on the eve of the elections. Thank God for over 70 years, come on, it hasn't been 70, 60 years since these plants were built, because this dam hasn't been included in that list that you claim there has been a great risk of anything happening, and it hasn't happened. Look, this dam belongs to NEK. I also explained to you that yes, it is part of NEK's assets that are at stake in lending and so on, but you need to listen carefully to what I'm saying from here. Before that, I said it, not now because you want it, look at the transcript.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u220	He didn't deny it, he confirmed it too.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u221	The fact that it is at stake is a matter of NEK's commercial policy, of BEH, and I do not see any reason how private state property can be nationalised, which you propose to become public property without the corresponding compensation. That's why I told you, I'm taking a line so I can give you a chance to practice a little more on topics you don't understand and to insinuate...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u222	Don't judge, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u223	These definitions were made for me. ...and to insinuate on things that have nothing to do with economics, have nothing to do with energy, have nothing to do with energy policy. I keep thinking, once again, that, on the eve of the elections, once again, we are making amendments that at least I do not want to say that they smell of lobbying, but they are strange, and the way they were made between first and second readings does not speak of concern at all about the Dam Ovcharitsa, but talks about other interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u224	Thank you. Any other lines? Mr. Mitev, come in. Third line, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Apostolov, I think you should explain to fellow Members that in fact the so-called trade policy by NEC is practically damaging the state interest and is contrary to the state interest. Because I cannot understand where the resistance to this comes from, a property that is private government property, which, on top of everything else under the so-called... because this is not a commercial policy for me, but is staked and can be lost by the State in the execution of the creditor in favour of which this property is staked. In practice, instead of the state defending its property with one such decision, it will lightly give this dam to a private person and only then will it go on the road eventually, again I say, of alienation, possibly, with all of the, of course, elements that this procedure is described in the State Property Act when alienating objects for important state needs, i.e. with all the burdens and difficulties of this procedure. So it is good to clarify to a greater extent to fellow Members what the danger is. It is very interesting to me personally whether, on the basis of this debate and these debates, the Prosecutor's Office will not deal with this trade, in quotes for me, the policy of NEK, BEH and the other companies of the energy system, which lightly give away dams, part of the country's power system, and that of critical infrastructure, to private individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u226	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Mr. Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Apostolov, you claim that we do not read, that we have read Order No 181. Here's Decree 181, but let's see what it says. Firstly, it states that it defines strategic objects and activities that are relevant to national security. But look what it says in art. 1, para. 2 that are responsible are the Ministry of Interior, DANS, DAR "State Intelligence Agency," the Ministry of Defence. It does not say that Yordan Apostolov thought that the Dam was not included since 2009. So it turns out that you are above these institutions "Maybe here and Mr. Minister of the Environment should answer, you suddenly believe that the Dam "Ovcharitsa" must be included. Where are the opinions of the Ministry of Energy, of the Ministry of Agriculture, of the Irritation Systems........................................................... because they are also an element of national security? See what is written in the list of Strategic Sites and activities of importance: "III." Water Resources Sector. 1. Strategic activities: provision of drinking water, control of water supply, monitoring of water quality; that is to say, where is the impact assessment? Suddenly Jordan Apostolov is above these institutions. Perhaps what colleagues have also said has another subtext, because if we read your motives, you have recorded there that the Dam Ovcharitsa (other than for technological needs) is used for aquaculture according to permits. Is there some other subtext of your proposal? Answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u228	Thank you. A hole? Here you are, Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u229	Dear colleagues, do not hold back. Resist, be humble, there are difficult times coming for you! First, let me tell you that this proposal of mine has been made in the Fisheries and Aquaculture Act, but it has not been seen, so it moved to the Beekeeping Act. So there's not much drama with this thing. And once again, I would like to tell you that there is no subtext in this proposal - it doesn't matter what was seen, what aquaculture, if anyone had cages. It's quite other things, with this thing I have nothing to do with, neither one of my colleagues breeds frogs and monkeys. So once again, I want to declare from this tribune that there are no behind-the-scenes interests. The interests are only in your heads.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u230	Thank you. Are there any other speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u231	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I would like, I apologize, to give the Minister the floor as well, since he is here, there may be other data. After all, he is the head of this ministry to brief us on additional information.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u232	Only if he wants to. Would you like some, Mr. Secretary? Let us conclude with the speeches, you may also have a bearing on the next statement. Mr. Abase, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u233	Dear Mr. President, I remind you and everyone in this Chamber that we are actually looking at the House Act, as the debates have shifted on the topic of the House of Commerce, the House of Commerce, the House of Commerce, the House of Commerce, and the Houses of Commerce. As a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Foods and looking at an agricultural law for Yes, in this proposed paragraph there are useful things for Bulgarian agriculture. For the first time a row of different, separate from the general order, shall be introduced under the procedure of authorisation for water use. This special order for farmers who have a eased regime, short periods and a number of other advantages which, when applying for a water-use permit, can benefit from this. And given last year's sushi, I think it's useful for farmers to have such a preferential order when it comes to the complex and long water-use permit procedure. In terms of t. 6, on which the debates are carried out and paid particular attention, not the agricultural points. One thing is clear, fellow Members, is that it continues the tradition of very important laws concerning property, energy, national security to be proposed on the spot in a committee of MPs, not by a ministry, not by a parliamentary group, as a result of which you see what debates have arisen here and on which there is clearly no consensus. I am against this primo to continue in this National Assembly, because in this way there are no opinions of the ministries, there are no opinions of the competent authorities. In law, notice, a bill amending and supplementing the Beekeeping Act proposes that the dam should be included in Annex 1 to the relevant law, that is to change its ownership from state private to state public, with all the consequences that drag this thing. In view of the debates that are differing, I see that there is no consensus, and given the corrupted procedure for offering this point, I propose that this is the case. 6 in this paragraph to be voted separately, not together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u234	Okay. Thank you. Are there any lines to Mr. Abase's statement? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Abase, we BSP also support farmers, but again the way it is done... By the way, fellow Members, the last meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Food has been scandalous. But what I would like to replicate is that there is no way for a colleague to make such important proposals in a basic law "The Water Act," despite support for farmers. There's a way this thing has to happen. First there must be an opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests, Impact Assessment. You know very well because the Water Act is a basic law. Here, these proposals may violate the water directive. You know, on 7 July last year, the Court of Auditors launched an audit in the Member States on the use of drinking water, water resources in agriculture, as a quarter of Europe's water is linked to agriculture, and we know, especially in the last 10 years, climate change. Thus, there is no way a colleague with a proposal between first and second reading to make changes to the Water Act. There's a line to go through the Council of Ministers, a conciliation procedure, there's no way we can pierce the ground. This has to do with the water directive. We violate both Bulgarian and European legislation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u236	What was the disagreement with Mr. Abase's statement...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u238	I couldn't figure it out. The line is a brief disagreement on the substance. I didn't hear a disagreement. Are there any other lines? Mrs. Belova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u239	Dear Mr. Abas, I fully agree that Mr. Ivanov's proposal includes texts that concern farmers - texts for which we in the Commission have united that they are good and are essential for farmers. Yes, the fact is that in the proposal, the last point includes a topic on which we, as a Agricultural Commission, are not competent to take a decision. But I would ask both you and BSP colleagues not to put so much drama into the way the proposals were tabled between the first and second votes. Yes, there is such a practice, yes, we have commented that we should avoid it, but we have, Mr. Georgiev, many such examples from your management.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u240	On the mike, on the mike!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u241	I hope that, in the next Parliament, we will unanimously unite to stop this practice. But let's not resent something you've done. There's no point in bothering the audience if you want, I'll introduce you personally.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u242	Thank you, Mrs. Belova. Another line? I don't see anyone who wants to. Mr. Abase, are you going to use the backrest or not? No, okay. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u243	Dear colleagues, for nearly half an hour we have been looking at a paragraph in a Beekeeping Act. Interestingly, colleagues who came out of the stands are trying to explain why, for what, in the Beekeeping Act offer amendment and supplement to the Water Act, which affects an energy undertaking. So far, colleagues have explained that there is no way without the opinion of the Ministry of Energy to change the status of a dam used to cool state TPP 2. In addition to cooling, colleagues, it's a big system. The minister visited her on site, met the overall system, and right now I'm wondering what we're arguing about here?! The dispute, fellow Members, is about the following "It turns out that after four years we have lived to the partners of GERB from this tribune to turn to the prosecution and say: colleagues, enter BEH, enter NEK, there is something going on, there is something going on! And what happens there? Why did you see him on the fourth year, on the last day...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u244	If you'd be so kind as to get to the point...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u245	...before you went to the election?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u246	...in the second reading texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u247	I'm gonna have to ask you...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u248	Do not engage in lines, dialogue with colleagues...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u249	I'm gonna have to ask you to be...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u250	...who have spoken. [[DPS lines.]] Please keep quiet from the ground!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u251	I'm going to ask you to be one of the MPs. You're put there to lead Parliament, not to edify.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u252	And follow the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u253	Please follow your rules very much. So, following your rules, you tried to...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u254	And you keep it, or I'll take your word for it. In essence.............................................................................. 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u255	You're trying to get into the energy system, and because of some fish, you're trying to ruin the whole system! For 60 years this energy system has been operating with this dam! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u256	The texts we vote on at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u257	Please, if you lack coordination...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u258	I'll take your word for it. [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]] Release the stands, please. [[Who the hell are you? Who are you? What are you, a faggot?]] With the mask on, can you take off the mask so I can see who you are? [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] By virtue of art. 155, para. 2 I impose a disciplinary measure for................................................................................................................... to [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u259	Chenchev is here! [[Inserts the seats of the MPs from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u260	Who is it? I can't see who it is. [[Laughter, noise and lines from DPS.]] Now we're going to correct the error, don't worry. Release the stands. I told you to release the stands. Do not disturb the order of the court, please. Release the stands! Release the stands. [[National Representative Ramadan Atalay continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u261	Who does he think he is?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u262	Please give me the name of the MP in a mask, because he'll escape the hall and I won't be able to punish him.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u263	See what kind of people you choose to rule over you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u264	Please, Mr. Atalay. Mr. Atalay, release the stands. I'm reprimanding Mr. Kulkov from the DPS parliamentary group. [[DPS lines.]] I've already said what I'm talking about. 155, para. 2. Mr. Atalay, please don't disturb the order of the meeting. [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u265	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u266	Mr. Atalay, by virtue of art. 161, t. 2 I remove you from one sitting! Please leave the stands. [[Voices: "Eee!" by DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u267	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u268	If you can move Mr. Atalay, please come in. The stands are yours. Mr. Atalay, release, please, the stands! [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] The Quaestors, if they please, remove Mr. Atalay from the stands. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] I'm announcing a 30-minute recess for Mr. Atalay, if he likes, to leave the room. [[Loud noise and lines from DPS.]] You've got 30 minutes! [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u269	We're continuing the hearing. Are there any other statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u270	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I take to the manner of conduct. Colleagues, it is clear to all of us that this National Assembly is coming to an end, towards the end of its existence, and it is normal for some passions in this House to be heated, given that parliamentary elections are coming after two months. However, this does not mean that we, as MPs, no matter what position we hold in this National Assembly, should not carry out our duties under the Rules of Procedure and Constitution. We witnessed an incompetence, incompetent leadership at a National Assembly meeting without any offense being punished by a Member of the National Assembly, who is speaking essentially on a bill, even quoting the words of a Member of the National Assembly who spoke before him. We, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, for a reason, have called on that people who are incapable of holding meetings of the National Assembly and who are incompetent should not take up such posts, not only that, but even positions in the state administration, should be removed and therefore we have also requested the resignation of the respective Vice-President of the National Assembly. Colleagues, it is a fact that some of the Members of the National Assembly present in this National Assembly may not be in the next National Assembly, even some of the Members who occupy this high tribune, but that does not mean that their own hardships should be transferred to the personality of a Member of the National Assembly. If this way we lead and represent the people in the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria, woe to parliamentaryism in our country! And imagine a punishment for the MP of the Rules at a time when there should be a break from the National Assembly. Thank you. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u271	Are there any statements on the wording of § 12 and § 13? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u272	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! In relation to what was proposed in the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Beekeeping in Transitional and Final Provisions, I have done a simple analysis that the next Parliament will probably spend half of its time fixing the legislation that has been passed through Transitional and Final Provisions. In this sense, the case in question for the Dam Ovcharitsa is an emancipation and an example of the fact that at last the strategic state policy in at least several sectors of energy, water, agriculture must be balanced, prioritized and this cannot be done through the transitional and final provisions of the Law on Government Procurement, in the Law on Truffles and so on. On the one hand, we, too, as a parliamentary group, are faced with a difficult decision because, being and becoming part of Annex 1 within the meaning of art. 13 of the Water Act, this watershed will be public government property. We cannot be against that. This is also a guarantee for us that the state will in terms of governance and strategic use will be clear. The only flaw is in two moments, and I have a proposal. I am proposing: first is the way this thing is proposed. It was right to go through coordination with the Council of Ministers, it was right to go through the Committee on the Environment and Waters. You can see that we are witnessing dramatic, radical water behaviour in terms of the entire infrastructure. So the method of import is vicious. The second disadvantage, in my opinion, is that it must be complemented that, by becoming part of Annex No 1 "public government property," it will not come out of the assets of the National Electricity Company. No one, in my opinion, wants and does not intend to deprive the energy system of this at the moment important to it in technological terms. This gives me a good reason to do so and I conclude my proposal, please withdraw this proposal, please be well motivated, please be well justified to make it clear that NEK will not be deprived of this balance first. Secondly, the State will have a clear attitude towards public state ownership. This is protection to the highest extent of ownership. Thirdly, they will meet their priorities, but this is another conversation, the strategic priorities in terms of environmental leakage, i.e. environmental protection, although the facility there is such that there is no such environmental leakage in terms of water supply, agriculture and energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u273	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Replies to the speech of the MP Kostadinov? I can't see. The next speech is from the MP Chavdar Velinov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u274	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I would like to make a proposal that does not find its systematic place in the Final Provisions of the Law, with the following text: Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u275	Any lines to Mr. Velinov's statement? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I give the floor to Minister Dimitrov for a statement of his will. [[Relations of MP Hamid Hamid.]] Mr. Hamid, do not disturb the order of the court, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u276	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm not making politics, and I don't need to. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs. Belova for having succeeded in this committee, when the Beekeeping Act was being examined, to include the texts that we are commenting on today in one way or another. I will say in terms of permit regimes for farmers. We all know irrigation is one of the priority waterfalls right after drinking. With the change, we allow farmers to benefit from a shorter procedure which does not in any way violate the principles laid down in the Water Act and the Water Framework Directive. The regime must, in fact, present all the required documents and it is maintained the issuance of an individual administrative act. There is only a faster pronunciation by the competent authorities, and this is a great merit only for farmers. Next, documents must be submitted by the company concerned. The irrigation system, the irrigation association, that there is no other irrigation system in the area and thus preserves the natural resource and will only be allowed water collection in an area where there is no irrigation system built. As an example, I can point to Dobrudja. You know I'm definitely against the water for the future, for our children, for every reason to pierce and pull out. A very good regime was found here. Wherever there isn't, farmers can get a chance to happen. Why is it in this law? Because it is the last possible in this National Assembly to happen. We all say how much we care about farmers, how much we want to help them, how much we want to give them the opportunity to prepare and be able to work this summer. In the next moment we say: we are ready, the MPs, to give up our powers, let us pass through the Council of Ministers, through coordination, that is, not now. If you really do, because I don't know, when you go to your electoral districts, I will not participate in elections, you explain how much you want to help farmers, and now vote on this proposal! Mrs. Belova has managed to find an opportunity in the last committee to include him. Well, it's better to turn it on than not accept it. By the way, have you ever asked yourself that this text was given by a Member of the National Assembly in the last month because it was missed and here to be included, because it was in And in practice, the only way to help farmers, regardless of party affiliation, is now to pass this bill. I absolutely support him. I thank Mrs. Belova, thank you to all those who supported him in the Commission and to Apostolov that at the last moment he felt that this text was nowhere to be found and submitted. It's about wells. With regard to the other text, which is related to quotas, so that I do not speak twice, that is actually why I have come. Ladies and gentlemen, we have money from Europe, and we have sanctions from Europe. Bulgaria must now prove very soon that we have made efforts in terms of fine dust particles, so that we do not receive a financial penalty. The ministry itself has implemented these soft measures that have been requested and approved, but the municipal town halls must also implement measures. This is done with money which the ministers before me have provided to come by the programme, but they must be used. In short, Dimitrovgrad, Montana, Plovdiv, Vidin, Smolyan, Burgas, Sofia and Gorna Oryahovitsa. For Gorna Oryahovitsa, we have a problem that can cause all the money to go up. Should funds already be spent by municipalities remain at the expense of municipalities? It wouldn't be right. They did it for the fine dust particles. Should we now play court cases where it may be that all the funds spent by the municipalities will remain at the expense of the municipalities, and we should be looking for new money, provided that we can, yes, with this amendment, move the whole process? It's happened before me, but it's good to be. That's why I appeal to you to accept this amendment. In conclusion, with regard to dams. They are also right with what the BSP said, and I listened to the motives of the United Patriarchs.................................... of Mr. Apostolov. I'll explain about the dam itself. This dam is a parasite dam. He barely has a place to fill himself with water. If it's not the Tundja River, two pump stations and a 70-mile route, it'll remain empty and the tick won't be able to work. The pumps cannot be an element of national security, the route 75 km is an element of national security, all the locks, the blockade of the river, the Tundzha River, because we are blocking the Tundja River and down water may not go at all, just to give this TPP to cool, everything to be an element of national security. There's a pit over there that's an open mine. In order not to enter the water in it, deviations have been made from the side to micro dams, so that the water in no way can enter the mine. In any way, the water from the dam, if it overflows, can't get into the mine either, because it will flood them. This whole system is an element of national security, only this dam is not. Tell me, if it becomes an element of national security, will it be easier to sell to me, or harder if it is an element of national security? I think it's gonna be harder. If it's not an element of national security, could it be easier to put some weight and collateral or not? It's easier. But since we're going a little bit after the events, someone has already done it, right now, if you had given the text that BSP gave as a compromise option. If NEK or energy had been given, the question would have been resolved and no one would have known. It is a fact that in what you have all quoted, a decree, a complex of the Eastern Maritsa as an element of the national activity in the sector.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Марица Теца Изстр 2 Why is the dam that cools the last.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... What prevented him from being NEK's property? They just put it in the balance in time. There's no point fighting. It was no coincidence that the name of politicians was mentioned so that the attention could be diverted. No one wants to buy it or anything. Then ban the fish in this dam if you think someone wants to buy fish. There's no such thing. Fish don't get in the way there. This dam is of a certain size. If it goes lower, it can't cool, if it goes higher, it'll flood the mines, and that's why all these systems are. To date, you cannot change the already submitted text. I personally appeal not to vote on it. NEK and the Ministry of Energy had to make this addition in order to get out of the situation that they have already somewhere put weights on this dam and that is why it was the right thing to say, but your motives were the right thing to do. In order to end without unnecessary tensions and opposition to the left and right, I want to express my opinion as Minister here I am still Minister, it must be an element of national security, because every year we give 24 million water to this dam in land years and more. This year I have to fight with two dams from Koprinka to put it in Zrebchevo, from Zrebchevo. We have to let it go to Hanovo, from Hanovo to put it there. And we do it every year, the ministers have done it before me, and this dam is gone, it doesn't exist. Two national dams are looking after him, but he's gone. From one you transfer to the other, and in the end, this dam doesn't exist. Well, if he's not an element of national security, let's not give him water. It'll shut down the power plant. You understand it's an element. He can't have everything around him, and he can't. So the better option is not to vote for political reasons, but for unadvised timely action by NEK and the ministry concerned to refine the text. I agree with all other things. I don't do politics, and it wouldn't be right. In this case, Mr. Apostolov will accept it as defeat if this text is not eventually voted on. No, it's not, Mr. Apostolov. You gave a good text, Mrs. Belova correctly submitted it and all the other proposals are good, just at the moment others did not complete their part, did not do their part. And everything else that's politics and you're throwing yourself at each other was wrong in terms of a dam. No one wants to buy it or sell it or anything. I'm graduating. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u277	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are going to vote on the texts proposed by the Commission as well as on the proposals. Mr. Velinov, you just didn't specify this as a separate paragraph, do you want it to be possibly the last.................... because to others I don't see how it can be tied.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u278	At the appropriate systematic place in the Final Provisions, I proposed it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u279	We're on final provisions and we're done with the Law. Except put it as a last paragraph, but § 14?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u280	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u281	The proposal is: Within six months of the promulgation of the law, rules for the enforcement of the law shall be adopted. That's the offer. We begin to vote in the order of the texts. First, we shall vote on the text of § 12 on a proposal from the Commission without that. 6. [[GERB lines.]] Excuse me? Okay. First of all, t. Six votes. [[GERB lines.]] What, I couldn't figure it out? [[GERB lines.]] If you stop talking, you'll give me a chance to make the split vote. That's what we're doing right now. [[GERB lines.]] What's not clear? First, I shall put to the vote the text of § 12 without point. 6. [[GERB lines.]] Then what? [[GERB lines.]] I'm calling off the vote. I shall put to the vote the proposal for a separate vote on this. 6. They voted 126 MPs: 125 against 1, no abstentions. Point 6 will be voted separately. I shall put to the vote the text of § 12 without the above. 6. They voted 127 MPs: 107, against 2, abstention 18. The motion is accepted, § 12 is accepted. Now I'm only voting on t. 6 of § 12. Vote 128 MPs: for 7, against 74, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 13 in the version of the Commission. Vote 116 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 11. Paragraph 13 has been accepted. What, Mr. Kostadinov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u282	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! It's more of a matter of procedure. I wonder how to define it so I don't stray from work. I was under the impression that you closed the debate on § 12 and voted, and I had a speech on § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u283	No, no, the speeches are over. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u284	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u285	I am now voting on the proposal for a new § 14 made by the National Representative Chavdar Velinov "In a period of six months from the promulgation of the law to be adopted rules on the application of the law. They voted 127 MPs: 32, against 71, abstention 24. The proposal is not accepted, which we have concluded with the Bill. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR RECOGNITION OF PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS. Report from the Committee on Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u286	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications, No 102-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 January 2021. At its regular meeting on 27 January 2021, the Committee on Education and Science examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications, No 102-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 January 2021. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Education and Science: Petar Nikolov The Committee on Education and Science received opinions from the Bulgarian Dental Union and the Bulgarian Association of Health Care Professionals who disagree with some of the texts in the Draft. From the Medical University of Pleven, and the Medical University of Plovdiv, there are no remarks. The bill was presented by Mr. Petar Nikolov, who noted that the aim is to synchronise in national law the provisions of Directive 2005/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 September 2005 on the recognition of professional qualifications. It provides for automatic recognition of a limited number of professions on the basis of harmonised minimum rating requirements for sectoral professions, a common system for recognition of training certificates and automatic recognition of professional experience. Following an assessment of the notified implementing measures and their compliance with the provisions of Directive 2005/36/EC, as amended by Directive 2013/55/EU at European Union level, as well as other applicable provisions on regulated professions and related European Union legislation, the European Commission notified 27 Member States, including Bulgaria, of the intention to initiate infringement procedures due to incomplete transposition of that Directive in 2018. At the end of 2019, the Ministry of Education and Science together with all bodies in the recognition of regulated professions shall undertake the preparation of an amendment and supplement to the Act for recognition of professional qualifications to respond to all findings of the European Commission under the infringement procedure. The Bill also introduces the provisions of the new Directive (EU) 2018/958 of 28 June 2018 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the verification of proportionality before the adoption of new regulation of professions (Directive on proportionality). It lays down rules for assessments of proportionality to be carried out by the Member States of the European Union before the adoption of a new regulation of professions or the modification of existing regulation. No additional funds are necessary for the implementation of the proposed changes. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Milena Damyanova and Georgi Mihailov. National Representative Georgi Mihailov expressed his opinion that the incorrect transposition of directives is particularly dangerous for every Member State of the European Union. According to him, these texts must be returned and seriously considered in order to meet the professional requirements of regulated professions. Regardless of the rules for the recognition of professional qualifications specifically for medical education, it is required to be 5 years and with a certain number of hours. Similar is the case with healthcare professionals. No compromise should be made with medical education. People's representative Milena Damyanova recalled that the 43th National Assembly did not support some of the texts in the present Law on recognition of professional qualifications, although even then the motive of the importer was transposition of the same directive. Between first and second reading some of the texts will be refined. The questions asked by the MPs were answered by Plamen Slavov and an expert from the Department of Legal Affairs of the Ministry of Education and Science. After a vote with results:............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u287	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you are, dear Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u288	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications, No 102-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 January 2021. At its regular meeting on 3 February 2021, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications, No 102-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 January 2021. The bill was presented by Mr. Petar Nikolov Deputy Minister of Education and Science. This bill proposes amendments and additions which comply with the findings of the European Commission in infringement proceedings No 2018/2284 for failure by the Republic of Bulgaria to comply with the obligations under certain provisions of Directive 2005/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning common issues such as scope and definitions. The new Directive (EU) 2018/958 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 June 2018 on the verification of proportionality before the adoption of a new regulation of professions (the proportionality Directive) is introduced by the proposed bill. It lays down rules for assessments of proportionality to be carried out by the Member States of the European Union before the adoption of a new regulation of professions or the modification of existing regulation. The directive aims to prevent excessive restrictions on access to or pursuit of professional activities, to ensure transparency and the proper functioning of the internal market. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 4 votes for the Council of Ministers and 1 vote for the National Assembly to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement to the Law for recognition of professional qualifications, No 102-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 January 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u289	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Report from the Committee on Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u290	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications, No 102-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 January 2021. At its regular meeting held on 28 January 2021, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications, No 102-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 January 2021. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister of Health Mrs. Svetlana Yordanova, Deputy Minister of Education Mr. Petar Nikolov, representatives of word organizations in the field of health and patient organizations. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by Mr. Petar Nikolov, who informed the MPs that the current legislative initiative is in line with the need to align the Law on recognition of professional qualifications (PCK) with the provisions of the current European legislation in this area. He clarified that, following an assessment of the notified implementing measures and their compliance with the provisions of Directive 2005/36/EC, as amended by Directive 2013/55/EU at European Union level, as well as other applicable provisions on regulated professions and related legislation of the European Union, the European Commission notified 27 Member States in 2018, including the Republic of Bulgaria, of the intention to initiate infringement procedures due to incomplete transposition of that Directive. The proposed amendments and additions correspond to the findings of the European Commission in infringement procedure No 2018/2284 for non-compliance by the Republic of Bulgaria with the obligations under certain provisions of Directive 2005/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning common issues such as scope and definitions. The draft Law also introduces the provisions of the new Directive (EU) 2018/958 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 June 2018 on the verification of proportionality before the adoption of new regulation of professions. It lays down rules for assessments of proportionality to be carried out by the Member States of the European Union before the adoption of a new regulation of professions or the modification of existing regulation. The directive aims to prevent excessive restrictions on access to or pursuit of professional activities, to ensure transparency and the proper functioning of the internal market. The opinion of the Bulgarian Dental Union (BDZ) was presented by the President of the word organization Dr. Nikolay Sharkov, who strongly objected to the legislative changes proposed by § 13 and § 21 of the Bill. He pointed out that the BZS has always defended and will defend the thesis that in the exercise of its profession dentists must necessarily have the relevant knowledge, skills and competences. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that a Master's degree for the acquisition of professional qualification is accepted in the Republic of Bulgaria. In addition, according to the adopted regulations of the Council of European Dentists, an advisory body of the European Commission, all its 28 member states and three observer countries unanimously support the requirement of mandatory minimum five years of training and five thousand hours of training for the acquisition of professional qualification of a dentist and are categorically against any form of training with a remote and/or Saturday-Sundivided nature. It was stressed that in the name of patient safety and the high quality of dental assistance in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, recognition of professional qualification of dentist should not be allowed for foreigners who have not undergone training with a minimum duration of five years and five thousand hours of study. This should apply even more to provisions allowing the recognition of a professional qualification of a dentist on certificates issued for a professional qualification of a doctor acquired abroad. Dr. Sharkov pointed out that education in the field of medical and/or dental medicine for a period of three years does not comply with the minimum state requirements established in the Republic of Bulgaria, while such provisions put dentists who have acquired competence in the Republic of Bulgaria into professional inequalities. According to the word organization, the provision of § 21 of the Bill is unclear and is subject to interpretation. In a careful reading of the proposed text, it can be concluded that if someone is presented in the public domain as a dentist and he does have such professional qualifications, it automatically means that he exercises his profession within the meaning of the Word Organizations Act of doctors and dentists with all the obligations arising from him. It was stressed that the wording of the proposed provision of § 2a of the Additional Provisions of the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications should be revised and edited at the very least in order to avoid the existing ambiguous interpretation. During the discussion the MPs raised specific questions regarding the texts of some of the proposed provisions. It was pointed out that these regulatory changes should be seriously reconsidered and refined between the first and second votes of the Bill, as they put dentists in discriminatory conditions who acquired their professional qualifications in Bulgaria compared to those in Spain. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the Draft Law for the Recognition of Professional Qualifications, No 102-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 January 2021, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Law for the Recognition of Professional Qualifications.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u291	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Mikhailov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u292	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm not gonna be very talkative. We had very serious discussions in the Committee on Education and in the Committee on Health. We need to be very cautious in bringing an automatic directive, especially when it is not carefully studied, we have not taken into account the experience in Europe. And what the last rapporteur missed to share is that the esteemed Dr. Sharkov, President of the Dental Union, stated responsibly, under a test made by the Dental Union, that in the Federal Republic of Germany none of the federal republics accepted this change so that dental medicine could be practiced by citizens of the European Union who have earned, not to say Saturday-Sunday, as he called it, training, but a period of training which is absolutely insufficient to acquire such a Master's degree. However, there are other problems that are related to individual other medical specialties, such as midwifes, where attempts are made without the necessary training to enable such training. Therefore, the BSP parliamentary group will abstain. We will carefully make our proposals between first and second readings. And I ask you, as it was in the previous bill, then again, in acquittal with the Public Enterprises Act, we introduced some absolutely incompatible with the Bulgarian healthcare decisions that we had to cancel after a few months. Now let us not repeat the same mistake and not allow such a type of negative and not in favor of the Bulgarian health changes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u293	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u294	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Once again, we are witnessing proposals for regulatory changes that put Bulgarian citizens at a disadvantage against those from other countries, in this case by the countries of the European Community. At least twice the previous speakers have already addressed the topic of dentists. So I'm not going to be naked here, even though it doesn't concern me personally. Would you agree when a Bulgarian dentist is trained for six years, with the same rights to you as a person who has trained for three years? Clearly, in three years a dentist cannot have the necessary theoretical and practical training, because dental training is structured in general with three years of theoretical training and three years of practical training. Here we have the firm opinion of the Bulgarian dental union, so the colleagues from Spain who insist on this unification of their educational degree and the opportunities for work in Bulgaria, I think they are not right at all and we cannot agree with it. There is another case that concerns the word organizations, in this case in the healthcare system "The Bulgarian Medical Union," the Bulgarian Dental Union, health care specialists and so on. What's this about? It is said that a professional membership of these organizations is being introduced, i.e. by a letter of the Minister of Information, notice, he says that Dr.................................... he wants to work in the Medical Union, he has the necessary competence in his country and becomes a member of the Bulgarian dental, medical or pharmaceutical union and so on for two years. Firstly, nowhere in the Statute of these organisations is provided for official membership without the active position of the respective word organization, moreover, it is not even about the structure of the word organisation that offers this membership. Secondly, there is no temporary membership of a word organization in the healthcare system. There you become a member of the time you practice, which is usually very long years. So we violate the meaning, the spirit, the concept of the place and the role of word organizations in the healthcare system, and they are not accidentally reacting in the way mentioned earlier. There's another nonsense, and it's quite significant. When there is no professional qualification, what is the logic? You need to perform the relevant theoretical and practical choir, and take the exam. The proposed legal changes to the Professional Qualification Recognition Act say that you can take one exam, that is, if you do not meet the doctor's choir, you can only take an exam without being trained and if you pass it successfully, you are already acquiring the degree of qualification. It's a nonsense. This can't be happening. In order to take an exam, you must have responded to certain preconditions. I have a personal remark from you. The changes refer to the term higher education. I think that when we talk about higher education now in the modern world, in our country and in the European Union, we need to divide things by the degrees of higher education, these are the degrees of higher education, the Master and the Doctor, to make it clear that when a person wants to practice in our country and is intended to have the degree of Master, which is higher education, he cannot practice only with higher education, but with the degree of Bachelor and respectively the degree of Doctor. Prof. Mihailov mentioned the problem with the professional qualification. In our country, in order to start training in vocational training, you have to have a 12-grade general education, that is to say, graduate from high school and take an entrance exam. In some other countries,.. again in the famous Spain, in order to start your studies, you have to have ten years of general education, that is to say, a ten - grade education, and there is no need for an exam. Well, our girls who want to become midwives are put at a disadvantage, all the more so in the last two years in secondary school that that's why they keep them in secondary school in order to acquire a certain qualification, be it in biology, chemistry, physics and so on, which will allow them to be trained in this four-year period for midwife. You can't apply for a midwife with a ten-year high school education without an exam. These and some other things make us refrain from supporting the so proposed regulatory changes. I hope that you will support them and they must pass again, because I believe that we owe this in this pan-European labour market to the Bulgarian professionals who have put a lot of effort, funds, time and financial resources on them and their parents to acquire it, and now it turns out that someone comes by half less when it comes to dentists, and has the same rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u295	Thank you. - What's the line? Statements? Mrs. Jaffer, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u296	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, from this tribune in recent years, we have very often had to look at texts proposed for a change in Bulgarian legislation under the motto of synchronization, and we need to transpose legislation that is adopted at European level. Typically, these proposals can be grouped into two groups. Firstly, we have always followed under a magnifying glass part of these texts because it became a practice between the synchronization texts which transpose legislation at European level to introduce proposals that are not related to this synchronization and concern national level interests. Secondly, many times changes have been proposed that no one has read, including ministries officials, much of the committees ignore them and automatically implement them. However, that is not the case. The European Union is an organisation designed to protect common objectives, common interests, to have a common vision. The free movement of people, of diplomas, of funds is a fundamental principle of the functioning of the European Union, but Bulgaria must also start defending its own interests within this Union. It is clear to all of us the subordination that a directive stands at the top of the pyramid of legislation, then follows the national transposition, then the regulation of legislation. In this case it is clear that Bulgaria is threatened by punishment. It is clear that the sanctions are most often tens of thousands of euros a day. It is clear that we must treat the principles imposed at European Union level with great respect, nevertheless. This is a concrete example in which we must resist the interests of Bulgarian society. Therefore, remembering cases, for example, when there were cases of recognition of qualifications by countries such as Ukraine, Moldova, Turkey, Macedonia, especially in the field of medical specialties, they went through very serious comparative examinations and recognition of qualifications, including by word organizations. We have no reason not to require the same high level of education, the same level of humanities, the same level of years of training, and of partners who are partners within the European Union. The other would be in violation of the interests of Bulgarian patients. That is why our principled position is as follows. We must support the proposed changes at first reading, because the directive was adopted in 2005, then changed in 2013. For some reason the Bulgarian official has slept through these directives, but now, faced with the threat of infringement, we can apply legislative equipment that could be in the interests of the workers in the Bulgarian health system. There are examples where we, agreeing to what Europe is making us a requirement, have imposed on our nurses, midwives, lab technicians to study for four years in order to be nurses. It makes no sense for dentists who want to come to work in Bulgaria to have been trained within three years and have claims to work in our system. In this sense, we will support the proposals now, but we will expect a revision of the second reading texts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-04.u297	Thank you, Mrs. Jaffer. Are there any lines? Are there any other statements? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on recognition of professional qualifications, No 102-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Vote 85 MPs: for 73, against 4, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. I'll introduce you to parliamentary control reports for February 5, Friday: 1. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer one question from the MP Christian Vigenin. 2. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva will answer three questions from the MPs Aleksandar Matsurev two questions, and Smilyana Niva. 3. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer two questions from the MPs Smilyana Niva and Irena Anastasova. 4. The Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov will answer a question from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov. 5. The Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov will answer four questions from the MPs Kristina Sidorova two questions; Elena Pesheva; and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov. 6. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer a question from the MP Vasil Antonov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, delaying replies by seven days have requested: The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova addressed two issues by the MPs Sevim Ali and Georgi Gokov; The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev answered two questions with a written answer from the MPs Irena Anastasova; and Irena Anastasova and Nikolai Tsonkov; The Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to two questions from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, and Zhelyo Boychev; The Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov answered four questions with a written answer from the MPs Valentina Naydenova two questions; and Georgi Gokov, two questions; The Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva answered a question with a written answer from the MP Nadia Klisurska-Zekova. The next regular plenary session shall be from 9.00 p.m. on 5 February under the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
