ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. There's a quorum. [[Ringing]] . I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members, I will make a proposal for a change in the Programme, as no report under point 7 has been submitted to date, and the draft decision to award state monetary prizes for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 25 February 2021. I propose that the point for today be dropped. Please, voting mode. They voted 164 MPs: 113, against 27, abstention 24. The motion is accepted. Message: In the National Assembly on the basis of art. 133, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act received a Report on the implementation of the budget in a programming format of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data as of 31 December 2020. The report was submitted to the Budget and Finance Committee and to the relevant portfolio committee and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Here's the first point for today: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCOMPANISH THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL TO ENCLOSURE BULGARIAN CIVIL CIVIL CLOSE TO THE RUSSIAN VASSINA AGAINST COVID-19 Importers suppose Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 26 February 2021. [[Noise and lines.]] Procedure? Come in for a procedure, Mr. Simov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! I propose that the debates on this point be broadcast on the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u3	Thank you, Mr. Simov. I'm putting to the vote the proposal Mr. Simov just made. They voted 171 MPs: for 70, against 66, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. Mrs. Daritkova, come and introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u4	♪ I can't believe on a draft decision to award the Council of Ministers to ensure that Bulgarian citizens are granted access to the Russian vaccine against COVID-19 "Sputnik V" No 154-02-5, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 26 February 2021. At its extraordinary meeting held on 4 March 2021, the Health Committee examined and discussed the Draft Decision on the award of the Council of Ministers providing access to the Russian vaccine against COVID-19 Sputnik V., No 154-02-5, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 26 February 2021. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Boyko Penkov, Executive Director of the Drug Executive Agency Mr. Bogdan Kirilov, representatives of the word organizations in the field of health and patient organizations. The draft decision and the reasons for it were presented by Assoc. Prof. Dr. Georgi Yordanov, who informed the MPs that the current proposal aims to ensure the access of Bulgarian citizens to the vaccine against the COVID-19 Sputnik V He explained that the vaccines of Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna and AstraZeneca are already being administered in Bulgaria, but the difficulties in delivering the necessary quantities to meet the needs of the population lead to a violation of the established national vaccination plan. It has been pointed out that other European countries, such as Hungary, already benefit from the right to independently negotiate the purchase of vaccines outside the common agreements concluded by the European Union. In relation to the above and led by the understanding that the necessary amount of vaccines is of primary importance for the health of Bulgarian citizens, as well as the need for the country's timely return to normal public and economic life, it is proposed that the Council of Ministers should take all action to ensure the Russian vaccine against COVID-19. Dr. Boyko Penkov presented the opinion of the Ministry of Health, stating that at present there are three approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) and authorised for use by the European Commission vaccines against COVID-19, whose supplies in the country, albeit at a reduced volume, are being carried out regularly and without interruption. On 16 February 2021, EMA received an application for a marketing authorisation for a CoVID-19 vaccine developed by Janssen-Cilag International N. V. and its opinion on this procedure is expected to come out by mid-March. On 3 February 2021, EMA also started an ongoing examination of the CIVID-19 vaccine of the company Novaax and on 12 February 2021. "CureVac AG's vaccine. These current views shall continue intensively until sufficient evidence is available for the issue of an official application for a marketing authorisation, which is expected to occur as soon as possible. The inclusion of our country in all procedures for the purchase and delivery of vaccines included in the European Union portfolio ensures diversification of the supply of vaccines in the Republic of Bulgaria and ensures the vaccine coverage of Bulgarian citizens against COVID-19. Under the current Bulgarian legislation in the field of medicinal products, which is fully harmonised with the European in order to distribute a medicinal product in the Republic of Bulgaria, it should be authorised for use and this can be done under a European or national procedure. Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 March 2004 laying down Community procedures for the authorisation and control of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a European Medicines Agency introduced a centralised European Union procedure for the authorisation of medicinal products and regulated its scope. The procedure is mandatory for certain products, including products with a new active substance obtained by biotechnology, as well as those for the prevention and treatment of viral diseases such as vaccines against COVID-19. In the centralised procedure, a marketing authorisation for a medicinal product is granted by the European Commission on a proposal from the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) to the European Medicines Agency following an in-depth expert evaluation of the quality, efficacy and safety of the medicinal product concerned, established and demonstrated on the basis of the clinical trials carried out with it. The Act on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine explicitly states that the holder of a marketing authorisation of a medicinal product may be the natural or legal person established in the territory of a Member State. Under national and European legislation concerning the authorisation of the use of a medicinal product, the manufacturer requesting authorisation for the use of a medicinal product shall submit to the relevant European or national regulatory agency an application for the authorisation of use accompanied by a dossier of the medicinal product produced in the format of an electronic common technical document. Part of this dossier also includes all the results of the pharmaceutical (physico-chemical, biological and microbiological), preclinical (toxic and pharmacological) and clinical trials carried out on the product. It is stressed that only the developed and manufactured product entity applying to the relevant regulatory authority for authorisation of use may dispose of the medicinal product with regard to its production and marketing of a particular national market, and the preparation of the dossier and its presentation to the regulatory authorities is also a full obligation of the manufacturer. It should be noted that obtaining a marketing authorisation and distribution in Bulgaria of medicinal products, including vaccines from countries outside the European Union, strictly follows that Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council and the Law on medicinal products in human medicine under the following conditions: for medicinal products to be authorised in the territory of a Member State of the European Union, for the holder of the marketing authorisation of medicinal products to be established in the territory of the European Union, for the manufacturer of medicinal products to have a certificate of good manufacturing practice issued by a Member State of the European Union, for the quality control and release of consignments of medicinal products to be carried out on the territory of a Member State of the European Union, and for the importer of medicinal products to be authorised for imports issued under Chapter 5a, Section II of the Law on medicinal products in human use. In view of the above, in order to be applied in the country, the vaccine produced by the National Research Centre for Epidemiology and Microbiology, which is produced by the National Research Centre for Epidemiology and Microbiology, Nikolaj Fyodorovich Gammalaya, in Russia, is required to meet the abovementioned regulatory requirements, such as the initiative whether and when it will be applied in the countries of the European Union, including the Republic of Bulgaria, belongs to the producer concerned. In this regard, the adoption of the draft decision of the National Assembly for the award of the Council of Ministers to take all necessary steps to ensure the access of Bulgarian citizens to the vaccine, Sputnik V., is not applicable, on the one hand, due to the need for an initiative of the Marketing Authorisation Holder of that medicinal product to submit an application for authorisation under a centralised procedure and, on the other, because of the already available prevention options for authorised medicinal products representing vaccines against the coronary infection SARS CoV-2. The opinion of the Executive Agency for Medicines presented by Mr. Bogdan Kirilov states that under the current Act on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine in order to place a medicinal product on the market in the Republic of Bulgaria, it should have a valid marketing authorisation issued by the Executive Agency for Medicines or by the European Commission. It is clarified that currently the Russian vaccine, subject to discussion, is not allowed for use in the Republic of Bulgaria and is not in the process of being authorised by the European Commission. According to the information available at the moment, the Russian vaccine known as the "Sputnik V" has been developed by the National Research Centre for Epidemiology and Microbiology According to an official document approved by the Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation from 30 December 2020, the vaccine has been indicated for the prevention of a new coronary infection in persons over 18 years of age and no information on the structural characteristics of the vaccine is provided in this document. On the specialized website of the Sputnik Vsutnik, it is indicated that the vaccine was obtained by a biotechnology method that does not use the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which is pathogenic to humans. The preparation consists of two components, the composition of component I includes a recombinant adenovirus vector based on human adenovirus serotype 26 (rAd26) that carries the S-protein gene of the SARS-CoV-2 virus and component II contains a vector based on human adenovirus serotype 5 (rAd5) that also carries the S-protein gene of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. In the process of creating the vaccine, the gene encoding the coronavirus S-protein is inserted into the adenovirus vector. In the light of the above, it should be borne in mind that the vaccine 1 of Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 March 2004 under which a centralised procedure for authorisation is mandatory for each vaccine using biotechnology. A published communication on the official website of the European Medicines Agency of 10 February 2021 states that the National Research Centre for Epidemiology and Microbiology At that date, the vaccine was not assessed by the EMA as the necessary documents were not submitted. The opinion notes that under European legislation, the above procedure can only be used during emergencies such as the present pandemic, allowing the EMA to assess data on vaccine or medicine when they become available while the development is still ongoing. It should be borne in mind that the Committee for Medicinal Products in Human Medicine of the EMA and the Working Group for the CoVID-19 pandemic of the EMA (COVID-ETF) must first give their consent before researchers can submit their application for the start of an accelerated evaluation procedure. With the provision of art. 10, para. In the event of an outbreak caused by pathogenic micro-organisms or toxins, or in the event of suspected or confirmed proliferation of chemical agents or nuclear radiation, the Minister of Health, on a reasoned proposal from the Chief State Health Inspector and in agreement with the Executive Director of the Drug Executive Agency, has ordered that treatment be allowed for a certain period with a medicinal product not authorised under Chapter 3 of the PHD. The Russian vaccine "Sputnik V" does not fall within the scope of the provision mentioned above, as it is intended for the prevention of a new coronary infection CoVID-19 and not for treatment. In conclusion, Mr. Kirilov informed the MPs that on 4 March 2021 the European Medicines Agency announced that the Committee for Medicinal Products in Human Medicine of the EMA had decided to initiate an accelerated procedure for the assessment of the vaccine, on the basis of documents submitted by R-Pharm Germany GmbH. During the discussion the President of the Committee on Health, Dr. Daniela Daritkova, made proposals for editorial amendments aimed at clarifying the text of the draft decision and bringing it into line with the current European and Bulgarian legislation in the field of medicinal products. It has been proposed that the name of the decision be amended as follows:.. for the award of the Council of Ministers to take all necessary steps to conduct timely consultations with the European Commission in order to examine the possibilities for the purchase of vaccines in relation to the CoVID-19 pandemic, which have been authorised for use in countries outside the European Union or the European Economic Area. In the text on the basis of the adoption of the decision after the word....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Members of the National Assembly supported the proposed editorial amendments, which should be reflected in the text of the draft decision under consideration. On the basis of the vote on the following results, 11 votes for the Council of Ministers are supported by the draft decision to grant the Bulgarian citizens access to the Russian vaccine against the COVID-19, No 154-02-5, submitted by Kornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 26 February 2021, and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the draft decision with the editorial amendments adopted by the Commission as follows: Project! DECISION authorising the Council of Ministers to take all necessary steps to conduct timely consultations with the European Commission in order to examine the possibilities for the purchase of vaccines in relation to the CoVID-19 pandemic which have been authorised for use in countries outside the European Union or the European Economic Area The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Instructs the Council of Ministers to take all necessary steps to conduct timely consultations with the European Commission in order to examine the possibilities for buying vaccines in relation to the CoVID-19 pandemic which have been authorised for use in countries outside the European Union or the European Economic Area.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. I understand that the other decision project will not be read. [[Definitions between the President and the National Representative Daniela Daritkova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u6	Read it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u7	Read yours, too?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u8	So how do you read it? It's not that kind of procedure. That's a violation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u9	It's not a violation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u10	We have a lot to debate. We don't care at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u11	Wait a minute. I'll give you the floor. Mr. Svilensky, come! Who will present your proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u12	Georgi Gokov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u13	Do I have a say in this?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u14	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u15	Thank you, Madam President. I always thought on the last day of the meeting we'd learn the rules. There is a proposal from the parliamentary group with a draft decision. The Rules of Procedure or Constitution of Bulgaria say...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u16	Mr. Svilensky, yes, I will give you the opportunity to present your draft decision. Okay, you'll read it. Thank you. Just wait till I say what I have to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u17	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u18	Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In this case, we had a meeting of the Health Committee...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u20	Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u21	... which was discussed and adopted an edited version of the draft decision because it is about the principle support of the draft decision of the BSP. They can imagine the original project, which all MPs are familiar with. We have supported it in principle, so at least please do not allow a vote on both projects separately, because this would be a violation of the Rules of Organization and the activities of the National Assembly. We have supported it in principle.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u22	What does that mean?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u23	Support in principle means that we have accepted the spirit of the idea of having more vaccines for Bulgarian citizens. And in this sense, if we now adopt two different projects, I do not know finally what the National Assembly's product of a draft decision will come out with, and we cannot reject the draft decision of the BSP because we have adopted it in principle. I ask you, indeed, in this complex procedure to comply with the Rules and with the final version of the draft decision approved by the Committee on Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. You're welcome to present the Project. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Mihailov, there is a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group and then I will give you the floor to present.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u25	You already gave it to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u26	I'll give it to him again. Let's not strain the tension.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u27	Honourable Members, Madam President, honourable Bulgarian citizens! Yesterday, we from the Volya Parliamentary Group together with our colleagues from our patriotic coalition, Volya, submitted a proposal to the National Assembly to change the Election Code and increase the threshold for entry into the National Assembly of Parties and coalitions from four to six percent. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Five percent."]] Two are the main things that made us do this. First, let's make sure that there are no random formations gathered quickly from a stake and rope in Parliament, as long as they jump the threshold, take the party subsidiary and then leave as quickly as they have entered. Such examples have many over the years. And the second is that in the morning we see different media, journalists, sociologists, political scientists banging and trying to explain how and how they were around the threshold, below the threshold and so on. By raising the threshold to 6% we will relieve them and will not be able to wonder how to make such false suggestions to try to brainwash people. [[Noise and lines.]] Dear colleagues, dear Bulgarian citizens! Along the subject of the change in the Constitution, you know how many people were coming out and speaking, putting banter on both journalists and politicians and sociologists and all other experts, but they obviously all did not understand that one of the main things is that the management of Bulgaria which should be represented in the Bulgarian Parliament decides the Bulgarian citizens. Who to be represented in the Bulgarian Parliament is decided by the will of the Bulgarian citizens not by the will of journalists, sociologists, politicalists or politicians from other parties. It is by the will of the Bulgarian citizens that the political party Volya, I "Veselin Mareshki, and my associates in our formation are part of this parliament. We are not here at the will of sociologists, political analysts, journalists or competitive formations. We are part of the Bulgarian Parliament only and only at the will of the free Bulgarian citizens who have asked for change, who have asked for something new. And I can proudly say that we have not disappointed them, and to this day we remain even in this Parliament, the only formation that has not broken down, the only formation that there is no doubt about, let alone evidence, of Shrubajan schemes, appointments and so on. Dear colleagues, a few days ago, why I am making this address just today, I received a call from a famous Bulgarian politician, a deputy of a corporate leader of a party, and he says: "Today I called Anton Hekimian and told him why, how and how he should do his shows now with the debates. Now I did not believe that such a media, such a well-known journalist could bow his head and get scared, and rearrange his program in a way in which there is no logical way to explain to any Bulgarian citizen. The question arises: fear or money from the sale of military properties, money from the sale of Bulgarian citizenship, Bulgarian passports to international criminals, or transactions for which there are currently ministers with cases, have led to this very dynamic change in the program of a certain media? Dear colleagues, honourable Bulgarian citizens, I do not say all this because certain sociologists, politicalists and media are trying to suggest that we are under the line that we have always had this as an assessment before all the elections by these people, but then we have received the high appreciation from Bulgarian citizens. I am only making this declaration because once again you are trying to convince yourself that you Bulgarian citizens, who only and only have the right to choose your representatives, are almost debilitating, almost ungrateful, and you are stupid enough not to understand who has been robbing all these years, who has been ruining your life and hopes all these years and who, on the contrary, has helped you to succeed and survive all these years against all those people who have robbed you. Therefore, dear Bulgarians, let us together oppose the new slaves for a happier life in our country, for a more prosperous Bulgaria, for a better life for all of us who have chosen to stay here and develop here, for our children, grandchildren, for our parents. Long live Bulgaria and God to protect our people from the new slaves! Thank you. [[Applause from the Bulgarian Rhodolists.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u28	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Mr. Mihailov, please present the decision you propose by importer. I would very much like all MPs to put on their masks.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u29	The draft decision, together with the motives, is that correct, Madam President?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u30	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u31	Madam President, colleagues! I was hoping that in our last meeting of this National Assembly, as the real last will be a formal meeting this is the last working meeting, to reach agreement, consensus and synergies, as written on the original building of the National Assembly, in the name of the Bulgarian nation, of course, and not in the name of agreement, concealment and smearing of the truth. I'm going to start off a little off-the-book with you personally, Madam President, who you know I have a lot of respect for as a lady and as a person, and I'm going to remind you of something from the next few hours that has made a fascinating impression on me. I hope that after my presentation of the motives you will take your attitude towards the problem. In a TV show on the sacred National Day of Bulgaria you said to us Bulgarian politicians that we should shut our mouths about coronation and only help. As you can see, in this room we will now discuss all the issues that concern Bulgaria's vaccination calendar and the options that exist. This is not politics, Madam President, with all due respect to you, it is a true Bulgarian policy aimed at protecting the interests of the nation. Those who do not recognize it in this Chamber must be crooked souls, as the Bulgarians say. Leaded by the careful assessment of the state of the pandemic phenomenon COVID-19 from its very beginning in the Republic of Bulgaria, March 2020, the Bulgarian Socialist Party fully supported the proposal to introduce a state of emergency in the Republic of Bulgaria, in which a political consensus was received, but with a very important hue imposed by our party to have clear borders and to be controlled by the Bulgarian Parliament. Fortunately, then there was consensus, this was achieved and began the feverish and careful study in Bulgaria and throughout the world of this pandemic phenomenon CIVID-19. Even then, I took the liberty of reading carefully the entire study of the University of Massachusetts for the global pandemic in 1918, and I realized that every viral infection has rules of spread, especially when it is respiratory, there are rules of detention, there are rules of state behavior. Leaded by this, the Bulgarian Socialist Party, in the face of its chairman, proposed that in the first months of this pandemic event, a state plan be implemented, in which the Council of Ministers, representatives of all ministries, be led by the Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers in order to copy all the problems that will appear with the pandemic phenomenon COVID-19. Unfortunately, in this effort to cooperate, as we said in the beginning... for cooperation and cooperation, we were not supported. There were arguments that did not correspond to the truth. Although such a plan was established in 2006 under the management of the Ministry by Professor Gaydarski, it was adopted by the Council of Ministers and could easily be transformed, this did not happen. At the beginning of the autumn of this year, also led by complete kindness, we noted in the parliamentary hall that a few significant months were missing in preparation for the state for the appearance of the scientists already known, having the historical experience, the second wave of infection. I will not recall the sad facts that all Bulgarian citizens witnessed, not to say tragic facts about the second wave, with the irregularities in the health system, with the problems that existed in it, with the mortality with which we stood first in the European Union, with all the problems that emerged. Then, also led by the intention of being useful to the state, we also proposed a few basic things in the Parliamentary Hall. First, mass testing of the population that is still going today in the Republic of Austria and all countries along with the vaccination calendar. Second, a clear explanatory campaign and the participation of the entire country in it so that Bulgarian citizens can accept the vaccination calendar as one of the important events for dealing with the infection. I must tell you as a specialist, Madam President, that there are two sides to the suppression of this infection. One is the creation of collective immunity through illness.. and this, in my humble opinion, is the main reason for the reduction of disease in Bulgaria at the end of autumn, and the second is, of course, the vaccination calendar. It was announced with thunder the creation of another vaccination headquarters, after which we have been witnessed for three months in three directions of problems in the implementation of the vaccination calendar. And I must tell you loud and clear before the Bulgarian citizens: first of all, a mistake in the diversification of the number of vaccines. This is indicated by many specialists.. 1.5 million of one species, there are 6.5 million of another type, for reasons unknown to us, and some of these vaccines are not currently produced in sufficient quantities, and others are not allowed at all, and some of them turn out not to be produced by the end of the year. Secondly, a lack of serious explanatory campaign. People could not understand from a clear, slender campaign that they really had to participate, and this resulted in a disaster in the third course of the vaccination calendar. Target groups, which had been announced with aplomb, could not be met, were late in deliveries. It is not true what was said at the beginning here that were rhythmic and timely supplies. We have witnessed in the national media how many times they have been late in deliveries by day and have also been reduced in quantity. That's where the new phenomenon came from -- green corridors -- which turned out to be neither corridors nor green corridors. And then, once again led by the intention of helping the nation and the activities of the government, we have formally proposed in this House, quite wisely, that proceeds should be made in the face of the chair of the parliamentary group, which is not a precedent, Madam President. This happens within the framework of extreme legislation: and in the Republic of Hungary you know it very well, both Chinese and Russian vaccines have been imported; and in the Republic of Slovakia all Bulgarian citizens know it, 2 million vaccines have been imported in the last 72 hours. [[Noise and lines.]] Other governments are currently negotiating, like the Government of the Republic of Poland, with producers. The Commissioner for Health of the European Union himself quite calmly, clearly explained from the stand of the European Commission that every country that is a member of the European Union is entitled to exclusive legislation so that it can negotiate with third countries and resolve the problem with its nation with the vaccination calendar. That was also the point of our proposal. It was not the point of our proposal to gather together yesterday in the Health Commission, to read to us paragraphs of a law which, in fact, half-resolve and half-prohibition the opportunity that we propose, but to assemble the Health Commission, to make a minimal legislative proposal that will facilitate what we propose and decide what we propose. And in the end...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u32	Get it over with, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u33	...to help not a party, not a faction in parliament, but the Bulgarian citizens, who are currently standing in line six, seven times in a queue. Didn't you see that some of them got sick waiting on the tails of temperatures that are far from optimal for their organism? All this was imposed today, on the last day of work... [[Relations from the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u34	Get it over with, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u35	Dr. Ivanov, no matter how much you shout from your seat, there's no point in your shouting. He doesn't honor you at the diploma. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u36	Extend the time at the expense of the group!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u37	Since the time of the group.. proceed then.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u38	So, by finishing his speech, by calling all of you to reason, I will reveal something else, and we were ready to make an amendment to our proposal yesterday. We do not fix ourselves on the Russian vaccine, we fix ourselves on the possibility of imported vaccines that are legalized, which already have a place in the European Union and in the countries of the European Union. This is our idea to help the Bulgarian nation and the government, which is authorized by parliament, to deal with these problems now and at this time. Once again, the negotiating mechanism of the European Commission is absolutely inappropriate and impossible to solve this problem. So at the end of my speech, I will read to you our draft decision that we have edited. [[Relations from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova.]] We hold this draft decision, in accordance with the rules of the National Assembly, to be voted separately. Project! DECISION The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Instructs the Council of Ministers to take all necessary steps to secure the Russian vaccine against the COVID-19 and the access of Bulgarian citizens to it. This is the proposal that we tabled in plenary a week ago. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u39	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Come in for a statement, Mrs. Jaffer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u40	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I'm not going to do a retrospect of the saga of organizational decisions that were made during the pandemic, as Professor Mihailov did. We believe that the introduction, discussion in the Committee on Health and the subsequent solution today are an emancipation of the political domination in Bulgaria. Today, when we need to be united around the fact that Bulgarian citizens must feel the care of the institutions, including the care of people in the highest institution in a parliamentary state, we cannot give a clear and unambiguous message that we are working with the thought of their health and securing measures related to the pandemic. The example is a very simple opposition force submitting a draft decision on securing a sufficient amount of vaccines. The ruling majority, reformating this decision, is trying to seize this initiative, to take credit for it, doing it the way it does it throughout this term. Unfortunately, this example, this emancipation of political abuse became the emblem of this National Assembly's work, and not only this edition of the National Assembly. However, there are much more resonant issues and they are the following: What is the pragmatic order in which a preparation is authorised? The highlights in the debate yesterday in the Health Commission were to be as follows: that the procedures are both centralized and national, that an exception can be made and to go by national procedure, but with exceptions, and those exceptions, where national regulatory authorities are not allowed to take decisions, are clearly scheduled for products with an innovative formula, for products that are based on biotechnology and products that concern prevention, prevention, in the case of vaccines. Because vaccination, honourable Members, is applied in the part of the so-called primary prevention and it is clearly written that it cannot be carried out in this order of regulation, but must be passed through the centralised procedure. That is, the authority to rule is the European Medicines Agency (EMA). That is why I think it was like this Parliament, as well as the Health Commission, to make a consensus decision that Bulgaria, following the rules on safety and efficiency, should provide enough vaccines to its citizens in order to control the pandemic and ensure the safety of its citizens. Otherwise, it is clear that medicine is a science based on evidence. All products should pass the full route of clinical trials. We are all aware that even the products authorised so far have actually been granted a condition, that is, the whole cycle has not been completed, for example, in the clinical phase III and IV of the normal test and that compromises have been made. However, there is enough experience to enable the conclusions from the application of these products to be drawn. As for therapy products, for example, because currently there is no specific therapy product found, unlike prevention products, and there the application is a little on the brink of the rules, because the application is mainly off label or the type of compassionate use. Given all these compromises, it was right to send a message perhaps for the first time at the end of this National Assembly by the entire Committee on Health and by the National Assembly, that with care for the people it is entrusted to the Council of Ministers, following the rules laid down by the regulatory authorities, to do everything possible to secure a sufficient amount of vaccines. Unfortunately, the work of this National Assembly will end as it began with mixed messages, unpredictability, screwing up and taking initiatives when they are good, with the roller of the majority. This is not a good message and a good conclusion to the forty-fourth National Assembly, I say with regret. I'm not going to call on reason because it seemed like he wasn't possible. I hope that the next National Assembly will be so complete as to correct those mistakes that have been made. As the people say: "I hope not. " Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u41	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jaffer. - What's the line? Here you go, Dr. Popovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u42	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The initial idea of IMRO until yesterday was to really support BSP's proposal for imports of the Russian vaccine Sputnik V. with one of our versions, which I said in the Commission yesterday to agree on such quantities of vaccines that have been missed in the agreements and which were issued by these five companies that we voted in 2020. I say them again: Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca, Janssen Pharmaceutica NV, SecureVac. Currently, of these five companies on the market we have three types of vaccines. The Russian vaccine is still missing. Indeed, if we had voted yesterday, we would have voted on this permission outside the EMA, outside the Bulgarian Drug Agency, by accident due to the force majeure of both the Bulgarian and the world market for vaccines. The sharp shortage in the country for those who wish to vaccinate and fail the plan is especially by AstraZeneca-Oxford, we remember the sharp reaction of the minister literally a few days ago from the overdue deliveries from AstraZeneca, the rhythm and the disturbed vaccination plan in Bulgaria despite the good desire of the National Operational Headquarters and the National vaccination headquarters and the constantly increasing percentage of Bulgarian citizens who wish to be vaccinated. We are currently one of the countries with the lowest rate of vaccinated population from a general population. Internationally, the state of Israel received an extraordinary million vaccines. By the end of March they give one forecast that they will vaccinate almost the entire population of their country, which is about 10 million, make about 100,000 vaccinations a day. To compare, yesterday we have made two thousand a country a little smaller than Israel we are by population. I would like to say that the VSputnik has already spread almost all over the world, use in Europe, Asia and Latin America. But yesterday the last information that came from the EMA is that the Russian vaccine itself is already in accelerated procedure at the EMA literally from yesterday, hours before the meeting of the Health Commission. This has changed our opinion and we are already joining the consensus proposal made by the Commission to allow the government to start negotiations on the vaccine, which will last about a month. Perhaps after about a month and a half and according to information from the Director of IAL, Bogdan Kirilov, this vaccine will be authorised for use in the European Union and we will not have to make a force majeure solution in violation of the EMA and the Executive Agency for Medicines, so that the group of the Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u43	Thank you, Mr. Popovski. First line, Mr. Atanasov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u44	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Dr. Popovski, you know I have great respect for you, but your last sentences, at least me, have seriously troubled me. You know very well sometimes administrative delays and as an experience as a MP, and as a good doctor in Pleven that when it comes to administrative decisions, they are quite often delayed and not what is expected to be. What you said: month-and-a-half, in this colossal situation we have right now, not to say the strong word is fatal, because you see the third wave right now... [[Conversation between MPs Daniela Daritkova and Kalin Popovski.]] I waited for you to finish the conversation with Mrs Daritkova. ...because you see the third wave right now just sweeps us away every day the number of sick people get up. The Green Corridors were a very good decision of the government, but what proved to be several hundred meters of tails waiting half a day to be vaccinated, and finally there are no vaccines. They just run out, they run out of quantities. So I think that colleagues from Hungary, the Czech Republic, do not comment on Turkey, do not comment on other countries outside, only about the European Union I am talking about, I think that countries such as the Czech Republic, Hungary and Slovakia, their politicians are no more stupid than us, be sure in the Czech Republic three or four days ago they have already delivered two million Russian vaccines. And we are in the fastest way, without any politicisation of things here is not about politics and geopolitics...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u45	The weather, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u46	This is my last speech in Parliament, make an exception for at least 30 seconds. ...because, if we're talking about geopolitics, doctor, Czechs and Poles have fought with the Russians for 300 and 400 years, see the story, and yet people have brought in Sputnik V. Therefore, no waiting for the EMA immediately vote, supplies, immediately entry into bilateral relations with Russia and in the fastest way to import the VSputnik. As fast as you can! Otherwise, as it always happens, there is one expression: "Bigger Catholics than the pope." Unfortunately, this shows our not-so-good story in many moments. No waiting for EMA, folks! Immediately vote on Sputnik V.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u47	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Popovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u48	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to say to my colleague Atanasov, to focus on the fact that exactly what Dr Daritkova said in the expo: "For the CureVac vaccine, which is also one of the good European vaccines and is on the new IRNK technology, have submitted documents to the EMA on February 14th and is expected to be ready by mid-March. "That is to say, about 30 days is indeed the accelerated procedure which, after it has come out, we can absolutely calmly order the vaccines because they have European permission and do not violate force major laws. The other, which is, does not prevent the Bulgarian government from starting talks with the Russian side at the moment, because this waiting will eventually be about 30 days, is the Russian country also able to produce purely the quantities that we need? That's true. We really believe that talks with the Russian side can begin literally today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Popovski. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u50	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Dr. Popovski, control your emotions. Colleagues, we've been in a pandemic for almost a year now, unknown to our generation in our country. Unfortunately, one year we thought things would end faster. At least that's what viral infections are like. One year, as Mr. Atanasov said, probably some count it as a third wave, it doesn't matter which wave it is, but right now Mr. Atanasov is absolutely right. We're at a peak of the viral infection, which is a normal spring peak. Unfortunately, no one gives the panacea to deal with the pandemic, and no one tells us when we can get rid of this common human evil. What is the situation at the moment, at least in Europe? Central Europe is on fire. For the first time, the Czech Republic is in a humanitarian crisis. Look for beds for hospitalization of patients with COVID in neighbouring countries And they can provide it: Germany 20 beds, Switzerland 200 beds. You understand what this is about. One-fifth of Italy has a COVID. They're putting off the local elections for the fall. They don't know when they're putting them off or how they're gonna run them. I won't talk about other countries, you know. What's the way to deal with the pandemic? Unfortunately, at this point, we don't have a therapeutic plan that's accurate, we're still experimenting. Prevention only with vaccine prophylaxis. Everyone's figured this thing out, and that's why the vaccines aren't enough. I think our government, to which we have given all the rights to negotiate the delivery of vaccines, the adoption of measures in the emergency epidemic situation, has not been able to navigate properly. It has been entrusted to the European Commission. We thought there would be a justice for Bulgaria by providing a proportionate number of vaccines. Unfortunately, that doesn't work. Literally yesterday, we witnessed a statement from the US State Department saying: "Until American citizens are vaccinated, a vaccine will not leave America. " I understand their predicament, but so are we. It has already been said that vaccines in Bulgaria are not enough. The vaccination plan cannot be completed. And here I do not want to comment on the statement of the Minister of Health, who said that the collective immunity of 70% vaccination of Bulgarian citizens will be achieved in June. At this rate, we will not be able to achieve the vaccination plan after 40 years. On top of that, honourable Members, it turns out that immunity is not lasting, it is not for life. The autumn will probably need a new vaccination process for Bulgarian citizens, because for now immunity is considered to be about six months. On top of that, one of the strains, so known as the Nigerian strain, does not succumb to vaccination, does not succumb to vaccine prevention. But anyway, the only thing we can do right now, which is suggested by the scientific field, is vaccination. What can we do? There are over 70 vaccines in the world that are being developed to one extent or another. I'll start with those who are the least known Indian vaccines. According to this morning's data, the only country outside India that has purchased vaccines is Ghana. Apparently, we can't rely on a serious product there. China and Russia remain. However, the Chinese are targeting the Gulf and South America countries. I do not think that they have the opportunity and, at least in my opinion, do not have a significant commercial interest in delivering the required amount of vaccines which does not reach in the countries of the European Union. This remains the closest country to us. This is Russia. I'm not lobbying for the Russian vaccine, but that's the practical thing to be done with. As has already been said, Hungary, Slovakia, Austria not only want to buy the required, insufficient number of vaccines, they want to produce them. Austria is currently planning, and is in an advanced phase, a plant for the production of vaccines based on agreements with the Russian side. Here comes the question: how much we take care of the Bulgarian people; will we take the point from the Law and continue what the political party GERB offers us to start consultations with the European Union if any vaccine is approved, but can we still conclude a treaty? Yes, we have such a contract. Yes, we have the specified quantities, they are sufficient for Bulgaria. Yes, we have given the money that is needed not to buy the vaccine, but to invest in its development, but the vaccines are gone. If we care, we should try to deliver the required amount of vaccines to Bulgarian citizens as quickly as possible. For better or worse, as many as some might not want, they can now only be from Russia. Those are the facts. What are the exact technologies? We propose to instruct the Bulgarian government to enter into negotiations, to see opportunities, to see a price, if necessary, and all other technological details, but that is, unfortunately, at the moment the only way to ensure the required number of vaccines. Otherwise, by entering some consultations, would you give us, but if you did, would you give us, we condemn a lack of prevention of Bulgarian citizens. At this point, when the world is on fire, we can't afford this thing. Again, you may not like where the vaccines are coming from, let there be, but they should be enough and any Bulgarian citizen who wants to be vaccinated should have the opportunity to do so. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u51	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mrs. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! And my ambition was at the final of this National Assembly on the topic of the health of Bulgarian citizens to broadcast messages that are consensus and which are not with the relevant political coloration. That is why I have chosen a procedure which is different from the procedure described in the Rules of Procedure when another draft decision by Members of the National Assembly is proposed when it is tabled accordingly. I have chosen a procedure that allows the Committee on Health to discuss the draft decision proposed by the BSP for Bulgaria and to take the views of the regulatory authority in Bulgaria, as it is a question of vaccine prevention, to take the opinions of the Ministry of Health and to come up with a decision that really reflects, on the one hand, the legislation in force, on the other hand, meets the challenges of the need to provide sufficient preparations for vaccine prevention of Bulgarian citizens. That is why I continue to insist that the procedure that we have chosen must be supported and voted only on the draft decision proposed by the Committee on Health, because it is the only one that has been reported. The procedure, which implies voting on two alternative drafts of a decision, is radically different and it concerns debate on questioning. Therefore, I leave the decision to the President of the sitting. Dear colleagues, why can't we accept the form in which colleagues presented the proposal for the provision of the vaccine, Sputnik V? I have repeatedly stated here that we are obliged to comply with current legislation in the Republic of Bulgaria regarding medicinal products in human medicine, which does not allow for preparations that are the result of biotechnology that are for vaccine prophylaxis, to go through a national accelerated approval procedure. Such a procedure should only be centralised by the European Medicines Agency. In this regard, we really propose that the Bulgarian government engages in the delivery of more vaccine prevention products, but when they have passed the mandatory procedures that the European Medicines Agency requires to prove their safety, because this is the main one. We must guarantee the Bulgarian citizens not only sufficient quantity, but also sufficient quality of the preparations that guarantee them safety, efficiency and efficiency. To ensure that anyone who has received a vaccine is secure, that this vaccine has undergone appropriate clinical trials regardless of the accelerated procedure required by the emergency epidemiological situation. And I think this should be the ambition of every MP because I am also protecting my fellow doctors who are going to put these vaccines. Whose responsibility would it be if we here, the National Assembly, decided to break the rules and provide vaccines by direct negotiation with the Russian side without them passing the appropriate test procedures? If complications happen, who will be responsible for this? I ask you to really realise this common responsibility of ours, on the one hand, to abide by the laws, because, despite some comments here about an accelerated legislative change, I believe that you have learned that this cannot happen, and the right to a legislative initiative does not have the Committee on Health, but have the MPs or the Council of Ministers. The current legislation is what it is and we are obliged to comply with it. Therefore, I believe that the decision we have proposed follows the spirit of your idea that we have the opportunity and access to all vaccines that have been produced outside the European Union, but which have received the appropriate approval from the European Medicines Agency in order to ensure quality, efficiency and safety. Moreover, the Russian country itself recently said, yesterday, it was announced that they had the opportunity to deliver 50 million doses of the vaccine, if, however, the European Medicines Agency approved the preparation. This is explained by the Head of the Russian Direct Investment Fund Kiril Dmitriev, stating that the supplies can start in June. In this regard, he believes that he will provide the European Agency with all necessary data on the vaccine which has been approved in more than 40 countries. And what is very important, I want to use his words and all of us here to realize that the partnership should be more important than politics. This also concerns our work in Parliament. I believe that everything that will come out of the last meeting of the topic of..... should be a message that we MPs concerned about the health of Bulgarian citizens believe that only through active vaccination prevention can we cope with the COVID-19 challenge. Honourable Members, I ask you to really support this proposal, allowing the Bulgarian citizens safe, effective and effective vaccines, regardless of their manufacturer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u53	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. - What's the line? Mr. Yordanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u54	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Dr. Daritkova, you are calling us to comply with the laws in our country, including our agreements with the European Union. How, then, will you interpret these variables that relate precisely to the subject? One of the vaccines, as you know, came with the prescription that there are indications to be used only for age up to 55 years, then became 60, now 65 years. Initially between the first and second vaccination period was 21 days, now became 70 days. Why?! Is there any new evidence of the effects of the vaccine?! No, just because there aren't enough vaccines, and then we're playing with the most common facts. The fact is: there are not enough vaccines! We are faced with the dilemma of either obeying the laws or providing the only possible prevention for Bulgarian citizens. What is your answer? [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u55	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Mr. Zarkov, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr Daritkova, in the last working session of the National Assembly you are trying to break the record of demagogy. Your ambition was to broadcast messages. Firstly, our ambition is not to broadcast messages, but to find solutions. Secondly, I will tell you exactly what the message you are broadcasting is and what you are doing with the change of the Decision Project. We are submitting a very clear project which obliges the Council of Ministers to take clear direct action with the Russian side for a particular type of vaccine, you refuse this thing and you refer all responsibility to the European Commission, which you are hiding behind once again. The European Commission itself, through its highest speakers, has said several times that countries can take this responsibility if they want it, as long as they have a government that has this courage and that responsibility. That is, the message you are broadcasting is that you want to reject the decision that BSP offers, but without saying it, because you know that it is essentially right. This is absolute demagogy! And do not hide behind the Law on Medicinal Products and Human Medicine! In this law there is something to be corrected and you have changed in a few hours here all sorts of laws for far less problems without blinking your eye. And finally, the procedure. I will only quote a few of your speeches just now, which show the extent to which you have forgotten yourself. You say, "I have chosen a procedure other than those laid down in the Rules of Procedure. " - Who gives you the right to choose differently from those laid down in the Rules? From what position? Like what? You say: "I continue to insist on voting this way or that way. " - How will you insist? Like what?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u57	The weather, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u58	Last, Madam President. The procedure is as follows and it is clear: a draft decision has been tabled, this draft decision must be voted on as it has been submitted and the draft which they have made by the Health Commission is then voted on separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u59	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Atanasov, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u60	Dear Madam President, dear Mrs Daritkova, honourable Members of the National Assembly! At least I did not see in this debate one of the few in this Parliament involved politics. That's my opinion. And thank God it was. It's just that what bothers me is that our clock is ticking, and with terrible force, it's ticking us with a countdown. I'll tell you a pure folk wisdom: when your house is on fire and it's on fire right now, I'm not talking politically, I'm talking about the kovid crisis, the house, when it's on fire, are you going to wait, or are you going to try what you can save yourself? If, of course... then, if he comes. That's my specific question. And I'm gonna ask you something else. Here health professionals say the procedure will be a month and a half. In a month and a half, how many Bulgarians will go in this situation, in this outbreak of the third wave of the casket and how many will be sick for this month and a half while waiting for the procedures to pass? It's always through-the-way. I do not engage my parliamentary group personally, I will directly support the proposal made by the Left. For me this is the most adequate, otherwise, as our friends the Turks say: [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u61	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Mrs. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Regarding the replica of Professor Yordanov, I can introduce him in a personal conversation with all indications, counter-indications and decisions for deadlines between vaccines, because I myself put vaccines in my practice and I can give him detailed practical information if he is interested in them. I believe the MPs have a slightly different interest, so I'm going to save that part of the dummies. With regard to the other applications, I would say that in fact the procedure under which this draft decision is being examined, you have chosen art. 88, para. 1. In other words, there is an opportunity for the Committee on Health to discuss this draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u63	To give an opinion, not another draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u64	You didn't choose the procedure that... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u65	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u66	...follows debate on questioning, alternative drafts of decisions are adopted and they are voted on. That is why the procedure that you have indicated as a basis, I have used to be able for the Health Commission to seek a consensus solution in view of the legislation in force, which we do not hide behind, but we swear as MPs that we will respect it. In addition, in the decision we propose, we do not specify a specific product name because I think that this is really too lobbying. Currently, two other types of vaccines are being produced, developed and administered in Russia. These vaccines may also be approved by the European Medicines Agency. Why limit the Bulgarian government's ability to negotiate only one type of vaccine because of some bias of BSP colleagues? Besides, I have one more point. What I found on the website of the Russian regulatory authority as a marketing authorisation does not contain the official name There, the vaccine is called We therefore have no information on what name the vaccine will be validated as authorised for use by the European Medicines Agency. Therefore, honourable Members, I ask you to support the draft decision which is in line with the Bulgarian and European legislation, because the laws in the field of medicinal products in human medicine are fully transposed by European regulations and I ask that this really be done with care for the health, security and safety of Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Procedure Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u68	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Let us, at least today, on the last sitting day of this establishment, keep our rules, and it is very clear and firm in its article. 88. Dear Chairman, remind Mrs Daritkova art. 88. In para. 1 it clearly states that: "Project for a solution, declarations, addresses can import MPs and parliamentary groups. " - We, as a parliamentary group, have tabled our draft decision. What the Commission can do, in the case of the Committee on Health, is also the following in para. 4 It is clearly stated: The Standing Committees discuss the projects under para. 1 no later than 15 days from their distribution and present to the President of the National Assembly their opinions on them. They present it to you, before the plenary, they can write anything in this opinion, they support, they do not support, they support, in principle, a completely different opinion to present, but the opinion is not voted here in plenary. The draft decision submitted by the parliamentary group is voted here. If Mrs Daritkova wishes another draft decision, be so good to comply with art. 88 of the Rules of Procedure and to submit in writing a draft decision by members of the parliamentary group or by different parliamentary groups. Now, only the draft decision of this properly tabled by our parliamentary group should be put to the vote. Follow the Rules at least on the last day of this legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u69	Thank you. A declaration on behalf of a group. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Just a day ago, we celebrated Bulgaria's National Festival " 143 years of freedom." In this regard, I would like to point out our confidence that the development of democracy, the guaranteed implementation of the constitutionally fixed rights of Bulgarian citizens and the prosperity of our country depends largely on the active participation of free citizens in public and political life. We believe that and bet on that in our program, this thesis will also be at the heart of our election campaign. We will again bet on the thesis of unifying patriotism and propose a Programme for accelerated economic development of the country. Our messages are the result of serious geopolitical analysis and aim to restart the state. Never since 1989 has it been so important which political forces will rule the state and determine our future. The upcoming elections are very important and require serious treatment of every Bulgarian voter because it is very important what model His Majesty chooses. The elections must put an end to the division and opposition in Bulgarian society, which is harmful and leads to the collapse of statehood and destruction of values. We must restore and strengthen the democratic foundations of the state, the trust in the institutions and statehood as a whole. For 10 years there have been no reforms, the economy is on batteries, the biggest investors turn out to be Bulgarian immigrants, the state is in chaos and the single solutions of the reached limit problems create the impression of policy and management of survival. Ten years is too long a period in which the state has lost too much and now has to catch up. After the ten-year management of GERB the crises are deepening, statehood is in decay, democracy is in decline, economy is in collapse, confidence in the business climate is totally destroyed, tensions in society are growing. Kovid the crisis has made the real situation visible, especially in the unreformed health system. The promiscuous election spending and the state budget for the year to serve election goals cannot hide the real situation. Like most of the legislation in the last ten years, and the electoral rules adopted again thoughtlessly, quickly, in violation of good European practices, have created conditions for the electoral process not only to become difficult and increase the opportunities for mistakes and abuses, they have mined the elections and created conditions for political instability after the elections. At this moment it is extremely important that the authority for the management of the elections in Bulgaria has an illegal composition thanks to the arrogance of GERB and the total denial of the rule of law. The National Assembly, as the body for the election of the Vice-President of the CEC, did not rule on the issue of incompatibility even after referral. This is unacceptable and unthinkable in a democratic and rule of law state, but not for Ms. Karayancheva and GERB, for which the Constitution and the laws have no meaning. As they like to say, the person does not like this to walk! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] In a democratic state, compliance with the rules can guarantee the rights and freedoms of Bulgarian citizens, create conditions for a decent life for every Bulgarian citizen. If we want a decent life, to choose programs and not to allow fear, division and opposition to prevail. Let the parties present their priorities, programmes and goals in the upcoming elections so that the Bulgarian voters can make their informed choices. Our programme is for the country's accelerated economic development, our priorities are Europe's priorities as well. We are actively working to include free and active citizens in the formation of political decisions and in the control of their implementation. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We of the DPS appeal to all systemic political forces together to demand free, fair and democratic elections. Let the executive and the state authorities not interfere with the electoral process and not use funds from the state budget for elections. Stop the election campaign from the SUV! We call on the Central Election Commission and all electoral committees to comply with the law and with their acts to ensure the legality of the elections. Let us all be empathetic in choosing a model for the future of Bulgaria! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u71	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. We'll continue the debate on point one. Any other speeches? Mr. Gazhev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor on this point as the only one who may be speaking, who is not a doctor, but I would like to make a few specifics, since there has been a lot of talk about demagogy, and I would like to insert exactly where demagogy is. First of all, I would like to make the clarification that the vaccine is called "Sputnik V" instead of "Sputnik B."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u73	Closer to the microphone and slower.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u74	I'm sorry. It was named after the first successful Soviet satellite since 1960 and is a symbol of Soviet technological superiority in the 1960s. I would like to say right away that I would personally like the Russian vaccine to be approved and imported to Bulgaria, because probably thousands of Bulgarians will be vaccinated immediately with it and whether they would do so with another vaccine is unlikely, and the more vaccinated, the better. The only problem is the possibility of supplies and what's actually being said. Here were given examples with Hungary, with Slovakia. Well, let's say things in numbers. Hungary has ordered 600,000 doses of Russian vaccine from the Sputnik V., obtained 2800 at this date and no new deliveries are planned. That is why the Hungarian side ends vaccination with the "Sputnik". If I may quote Victor Orbán's chief of staff, Russia has insufficient production capacity and they are betting on the Chinese vaccine from which they have delivered over 600,000 copies, by the way Orbán himself is vaccinated with Chinese vaccine. Slovakia. Slovakia received 200,000, not 2 million, 200,000 vaccines, ordered 2 million! We've ordered 14 million, but we've received 200,000. When will there be a second delivery? The Slovak government itself does not know. That is why there is currently a crisis in Slovakia in the government coalition. The Serbs, another country that was inoculating with the VSputnik here, near us, in Europe, have stopped vaccination with the VSputnik because of lack of supplies and are continuing at the moment. By the way, there's 600,000 deliveries there, too, with the Chinese vaccine. Why BSP, excuse me, you don't want a Chinese vaccine? Apparently, those countries that started with Russian have gone into Chinese. I hope the Russians have someday to produce and deliver. If I can quote again the Director of the Russian Direct Investment Fund, who is responsible for the export of this vaccine, says the following: The Europe can receive 50 million doses from June onwards, before June we do not have the capacity to produce them. This means 2.25 million people, against the backdrop of 550 million people, or less than 5% of the population. I hope they can increase their sales opportunities, but at the moment, there is no such data. Unfortunately, all countries currently receiving supplies cannot boast about regular and large deliveries. This shows something very clear "The Russian vaccine is used with small supplies, but with huge propaganda and a huge advertising machine after it. Whether vaccines are used as geopolitical tools, examples can be given a lot and talked for a long time, but China, India and Russia are trying to position themselves just like countries that use vaccines as geopolitics, especially in Asia, in Africa and in Eastern Europe. If Bulgaria is doing badly with vaccination, as you say, what country is doing worse?! The Russian Federation, unfortunately. Currently, there are 2.3 million people vaccinated in the Russian Federation from 150 million people. And what would be the logic of the Russian Federation itself to export vaccines, given that they are essential for the Russian citizens themselves? What's their logic?! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It was said that here, you see, the Americans keep their vaccines to themselves, the English keep their vaccines to themselves, and it's logical for the Russians to keep their vaccines to themselves, isn't it? And accordingly: why do they not vaccinate their own citizens with this vaccine they want? I would say again that this may be the reason why Russian-based documents are not submitted to the European Medicines Agency because it will become clear that they do not have production capacity. They were imported from a German company, not from the producer country, not from the export company responsible, but from a German company, so that the process could be started. These are very clear documents that can be seen on the website of the European Medicines Agency. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Excuse me? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's not a prop, it's a document. It's clear, it's uploaded to the site. It's just that you guys are working with dummies, and I'm talking to facts and figures. If you have anything else you can say with facts and numbers, please say it. We're talking about the Project Decision. Excuse me, but any draft decisions submitted for decisions or declarations always pass through committees and always the MPs can make changes to them that the Commission has voted on. The final text approved by the Commission enters the Chamber, not the original version and so on, which you are talking about. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] On the contrary, any declaration or draft decision that we have considered in the Assembly, because they pass in the same order, passes through a committee, is considered in committee. The text that the committee approved enters the Chamber, as is the legislative process in general. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The whole work now again resembles, for example, to be honest, the heavy lobbying legislation you are trying to make. Because you want to oblige Bulgaria to buy from one company vaccines with unclear parameters, vague supplies and unclear funding. The Russian adventures of BSP simply have no end! Such examples over the years can be given thousands. If there is a trademark of BSP, it is this adventure by giving Bulgarian money to Russian companies without a clear result. [[Applause from GERB.]] Finally, I would like to say why we are looking at the subject today. Perhaps for the simple reason that the only urgency that is at the moment is just the russophilisian vote in the elections. I'm sorry to have to say this. But given that the suppliers themselves tell you that before June there is no way to deliver a single dose, what is the element of urgency now, March month, to watch it? Maybe this?! I hope not. I sincerely hope that's not it! I don't want to politicize the subject, but here the question is, what are we doing right now if there are no deliveries? Let us see what the approval will be, whether it will be approved, whether documents will be submitted by the Russian side for examination and only then to see what the qualities of this vaccine really are. Russia has a few more vaccines. Why won't you turn them on? By the way, even the same institute is currently conducting clinical studies of Sputnik Light, which is a single-dose vaccine. Don't you want one? Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u75	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. You've challenged a lot of wishes for lines. First Mr. Mihailov, then Mr. Mihov. Mr. Atanasov had raised his hand when I was watching, but Mr. Ivanov wanted a line, so... [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u76	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gazhev, I'm sure the many wishes for lines are because of the many untruths you have spoken. It's a good thing you said at first that you might be the only one who's not a doctor. You weren't the only one, but you were the only one who said a series of false things, not to say another definition. First of all, I will tell you that if you think that the publication in Lancet is the most popular medical journal in the world, it is a geopolitical lever of Russia for advertising of Sputnik, so you do not know anything about medical science, you do not know anything about medical evidence. The second thing you are saying and what is not true is that you mention Serbia, do you know where Serbia is in Europe? Second in number of vaccinated citizens. Do you know where Bulgaria is? In the European Union at last. Thirdly, by constantly suggesting that, you see, there are other vaccines, with the decision that you are imposing, you are preventing this negotiation process from ever taking place. You're in the way! And the last thing I'm going to tell you is that we're here four years with you, every draft decision is submitted to committee, passes through committee, gets out of it and goes to the room. If there is an alternative to another political force, it also goes to the Chamber. So there are no frivolities here and no violations of the BSP's Rules of Procedure for wanting to vote on its declaration. I therefore ask you, where your knowledge does not meet the level to which you must stand on this high stage, not to enter into an attempt at debate, as things are becoming extremely unbeatable, not to say ridiculous. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u77	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Second line, Mr. Mihov. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, both projects will be put to the vote. Please let us no longer debate on this subject and get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Gazhev, you said some things, but you didn't say them all the way. I suppose that if the Germans have proposed the "Sputnik V" for licensing, they have named it according to the "Trabant Fau," but you have mentioned the political interest in today's debate, I will be a bit historical. The Left wants to convince us that the eighth sanitary division, commanded by General Dragomirov, is standing on the Danube against Svishtov and has a plan to immediately cross the Danube, armed with several million vaccines, with the deployment of sanitary fields on the seventh day to go to Tarnovo, on the fourteenth day to Sofia, and on the fifteenth day to Varna, Shumen, Silistra and Ruse, and then on the third week, will pass the Balkan and through Stara Zagora and Yambol will reach the Turkish border. And that will be the salvation of Corona 19. And in order for this to happen, we only need to accept the words written by the BSP today, otherwise we will remain under the tyranny and domination of the coronavirus for a long time. The political context of this discussion today is so prosaic that it cannot convince even Russia's supporters in Bulgaria that this is the only salvation because the crisis is global and Russia itself has problems dealing with this crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u79	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u80	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I've always respected Professor Mihov, but I can't make a line because his statement was shocking. I will make a line for Mr. Gajev, to whom I have always listened carefully to statements that have always been logically justified. Here's the politicization, Mr. Gajev, which you just called Russian clachers. There are no Russian clackers on this subject, my friend! There are Bulgarian clackers for the population, for which there are currently not enough vaccines. They die like flies. It's the truth! And they get sick like flies! [[Heckling]] There was no politicisation! Well, you just did. What is the meaning of Russian clackers? There's no place else to get, no place to deliver. Yesterday, the Americans said that no vaccine would leave America until they vaccinated their population because 570,000 Americans had died of a horse so far. They didn't lose that much in World War II. But enough politics. I want to tell you something else, my friend! The Israelis, the wisest, for me at least, state at the moment in the world because they rule the world, they brought in a Russian vaccine. Not to mention the Turks, our friends are currently importing a Russian vaccine. Erdogan was vaccinated, even imported Chinese, and vaccinated with Chinese vaccine. And I'll tell you something else, Mr. Gazhev, watch what's going on in Bulgaria right now. This virus is crawling not for days, but for hours.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u81	Is that a line or a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u82	It's a line to Mr. Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u83	It's a line, yeah. Finish up, Mr. Atanasov. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u84	Well, since it took me seconds...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u85	No, no. They took you two seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u86	Yeah, just give me 10 seconds. And to graduate, Mr. Gazhev: do not interfere in the internal affairs of another country. That's what the Russians thought, so they did, but all the supplies they claimed from the outside were delivered. Bulgaria is a small country.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u87	Mr. Atanasov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u88	Bulgaria is not Turkey with 80 million population.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u89	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Mr. Gazhev, come and get your coat. Then I will give a statement to Mr. Popov, Mr. Ivanov and then to Mr. Sabanov. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u90	Thank you, Madam President. If I said Russian clackers, I apologize, but I don't think I said that. First, on several of the topics that were said. I do not deny the qualities of the vaccine and do not enter into this dispute. And in the media, I'm saying there's just no deliveries for her and there's no opportunity for deliveries. It's a fact that's everywhere. So today, let's order and pay millions as much as we want, just won't come delivery before June. And I'm not the one saying that. I'm the delivery guy. The Russian side and the director in charge of supplies, he said that before June and one vaccine could not deliver. This one, first. Secondly, yes, Serbia is ahead in vaccination and in the vaccination plan, but with Chinese vaccines, Hungary also mentioned Turkey and Israel. By the way, the Turks gave up a few days ago from general production with the representatives of the Russian Federation for this vaccine for the That's why Turkey vaccinated with a Chinese vaccine. I therefore ask: why should we limit ourselves only to Russian, given that there is an opportunity to negotiate with Chinese?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u91	There's some for Chinese.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u92	Yeah, but the main importers, the first by what you want to look at by importer, are for the Russian, only one type of Russian vaccine. And two. Let me ask again: if your thesis is correct that the draft decisions are looked at as they have been submitted, then why do they come into the Commission at all and do not come directly into the Chamber if we look at the texts from one to one?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u93	Without this procedure, Mr. Gazhev we have already discussed.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u94	The truth is, I'm gonna say it again, there's geopolitics in the supply of scarce goods sought all over the world. I think that in each such commodity there is some kind of geopolitics for entering markets and so on, there are many, many and scientific studies about how deficit goods are used to do as political levers in foreign policy levers. And you, Dr. Dimitrov, should know him as a member of the Foreign Commission, so this is not about the medical qualities of the vaccine, but geopolitics in the use of the topic.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u95	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. Mr. Ivanov had then declared Mr. Sabanov and then Mr. Svilenski.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u96	Madam President, honourable Members! I mostly address my majority colleagues because, listening to their speeches, obviously, they have not understood what we are talking about today. Dear colleagues, today with this decision we are talking about giving the Bulgarian citizens the opportunity to gain access to vaccination. Let me just remind you that here before New Year we voted on two decisions tabled by the Council of Ministers, with which the Prime Minister washed his hands. Some of the vaccines that have entered these decisions have not even been approved by this European Drug Agency yet. They're here, voted by us. Are they lobbying? If we are talking about lobbying, you can ask some of your advocates, especially GERB, who are representatives of "AstraZeneca" and are advocates of GERB in committees, and are represented. Right? It's a separate matter! The other thing is, when the Prime Minister was talking about a cat in a bag, you got a cat in a bag. Because right now the Bulgarian citizens are waiting in line, wondering how to find access to the vaccine, because you have made a row in which no one can find a way to get adequate access to the vaccine. First, and they didn't want, second, they didn't want to, and then when you did mass release, there's no vaccine for humans. What we are doing today is to give an alternative, an opportunity to the Bulgarian citizen. You are looking for any possible administrative obstacles to stop the opportunity to get something that is ready and on the market right now. [[Relations of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova.]] As many times as I have explained to you here, from this tribune, that Member States of the European Union have bought these vaccines, already applied them to their citizens. Why should we limit? How long do you want to watch these people wait outside in the lines for a vaccine and wonder which vaccine they're going to take? Okay, so you're set up with this guy, the guy with ties to get vaccinated, what about the ones waiting outside?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u97	Mr. Ivanov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u98	No, ma'am, I'm talking about it!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u99	Don't abuse...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u100	I don't abuse...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u101	...this way!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u102	I'm not abusing, I'm telling the truth.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u103	Don't twist the truth.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u104	Because Bulgarian citizens need to know it. They must know this truth...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u105	How do you know that's the truth?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u106	And because today it will be on your conscience! On your conscience, it will weigh if you do not give them today the opportunity to receive a vaccine that they wish to receive. If you want Chinese, bring it in. I say again, recall the decisions that the Council of Ministers has tabled. We have given without any conditions permission for Bulgaria to buy vaccines that have not even been produced yet, which are not licensed to not say the names, you know very well who it is! [[GERB lines.]] They're not approved by anyone! Don't talk nonsense! This vaccine...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u107	Mr. Ivanov...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u108	And don't talk to me since...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u109	Mr. Ivanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u110	If they want to make a line to me, to come here, Mrs. Karayancheva, that's your job, not to give more grades here!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u111	Don't tell me what my job is!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u112	I'll tell you yes, because you don't know what to do, so I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u113	And you know a lot!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u114	They, the people, will give you the grade!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u115	Mr. Ivanov, I'm asking you very much to do the right thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u116	Colleagues, on your conscience it will weigh if you today reject this decision and put it into an administrative battack. That's the truth. Thank you. [[Applause and cheers by "BSP for Bulgaria": "Bravo!" Bravo! "Replica from GERB: "He introduced the election campaign in the hall. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u117	- What's the line? Mr. Ermenkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u118	Dear Mr. Ivanov, you neglected to say one thing, and I will put it in one sentence. At the moment you have failed to remind your colleagues from GERB that we are in the situation in which tomorrow people standing in the queue can see the inscription: "Vaccins are not because consultations with the European Union are taking place.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u119	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Ivanov, do you have anything more to say about this? Whatever you had, you said. [[Heckling]] Mr. Chenchev, I've been very patient and I expect you to praise me. Ivan VALENTINOV Ivanov [[BSP for Bulgaria]] :Dear Madam President, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Ermenkov! The aim of today's debate is indeed that the majority colleagues understand that there is currently a problem with the delivery of vaccines. We offer an alternative to fill this vacuum that currently exists. You should have maybe a little emotionally spoken here to see the content of today's proposal that we are making. What colleagues are trying to do in every way will prevent Bulgarian citizens from even being vaccinated. Instead of showing here by this highest authority, from the highest, highest tribune to express our concern for them, we are trying to rotate them in any administrative way possible they do not have access to vaccines. It's the truth! We're concerned, that's why we brought this decision here because you're going on vacation tomorrow and you're not coming back here, you're coming back on the 25th.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u120	Are you staying at work, Mr. Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u121	We're all at work, Mrs. Karayancheva. You submitted the proposal, you voted for this vacation. So now is the time to resolve the government here...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u122	Make a reverse offer to continue working until the end of...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u123	...to start negotiations on the Russian vaccine and allow citizens to have access to it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u124	The Constitution says how long it takes to work.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u125	Come in for a statement, Mr. Sabanov. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u126	There's a tribune, don't scream from the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u127	Calm down, guys! Mr. Sabanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u128	Madam President, honourable Members! We at IMRO will support any vaccines approved by the EMA for the Bulgarians. Of course, Sputnik is one of the most popular vaccines in a large part of the Bulgarian population. Of course, there are also those who want the Chinese ones who have already vaccinated themselves with the available ones. So any vaccine that comes on the market is approved by the European institutions, we as Bulgarian politicians must support it. This is what we will do today and we will support Sputnik, we will support Chinese, we will support Japanese if necessary, but there will be clear rules by which these vaccines enter Bulgaria. I think it's right even as an election promise to all of you. We support all vaccines that can come and preserve the health of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u129	Thank you, Mr. Sabanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Here's a statement, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u130	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I would like to return you to the Project for a decision, and I will read it to you to see what the BSP Parliamentary Group has imported and what we have been talking about for two hours. supposes the Council of Ministers to take all necessary steps to secure the Russian vaccine against COVID-19, Are you asking what the urgency is, fellow Members? Well, the urgency is that for a week now Bulgarian citizens are standing in some green corridors waiting for vaccines. This is the emergency! The emergency is that on March 8th you stop planning operations. This is the emergency! The emergency is that you're waiting for a second or third wave of sick. This is the emergency! We offer a version of the government to provide the Bulgarian citizens, you want other vaccines, others say the Chinese vaccines, and the submitted drafts of decisions to assign both the Chinese and the Russian and all the possibility for the government to negotiate. We don't say if he buys or won't buy. It's clearly said... [[Reply of the National Representative Vejdi Rashidov.]] Mr. Rashidov, listen to me. You were a minister, Mr. Rashidov. After taking action, the Council of Ministers will see that there is no possibility to ensure that it is not approved, that it cannot be produced, that it cannot be imported, that a minister in this Chamber will come here and say: honourable Members, you have entrusted us, first, second, third, this thing is impossible, but someone must be responsible. This is what you fear and say it because Bulgarian citizens understand it. You're wondering how on your imaginary procedures you don't press the button for our project decision and you're making it up. Look at the solution you have formulated: That's, frankly, never anything...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u131	Buying...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u132	It's not gonna happen. 'Contemporary consultations with an opportunity study...'
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u133	Buying of vaccines in connection with the pandemic.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u134	Ms. Karayancheva...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u135	Read it all the way. I was listening very carefully.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u136	...if you want to talk with me, come to me and we can complement each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u137	A duet...?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u138	Because we're not equal, and you're still taking advantage...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u139	I'm reading and helping you. I'm just...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u140	No, no, don't help me. You are the chairman, but not to help me, but to lead the Assembly. If I need help, I'll come to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u141	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u142	And finally, the procedure. It is very clear in the Rules of Procedure, honourable Members, how to vote! There is a draft decision from an entire parliamentary group. You get on this draft of a decision, you start skulking on it, writing whatever you want, and you want to vote on yours. Well, bring in your separate alternative project, accept or reject ours, [[Relations of MP Daniela Daritkova]] , then vote on your project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u143	That's exactly how it's gonna work.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u144	Why are you afraid to vote on our draft decision?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u145	Because we accepted it in principle.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u146	What the fuck? Our project for a solution is three lines, and yours is usually eight rows. Which principle exactly did you adopt?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u147	That's why!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u148	But there's no such thing! [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u149	It's five in a row.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u150	There's no such thing! In our draft decision, Mrs. Daritkova, it says: delivery to the country of the Russian vaccine against the COID-19 Sputnik V
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u151	Because we want more vaccines. And because you want more vaccines, you say it's a lobbying proposal. I ask you, when you took the five vaccines, was it a lobbyist proposal, or is that lobbyist now with the Russian vaccine? When you took the five other vaccines two months ago, it wasn't, and now it's lobbying?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u152	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Simeonov wants the floor to be spoken.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u153	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Unfortunately, once again, a business issue becomes political gum, slangly speaking. There's a reason in both offers. I think that after these debates, which last for nearly two hours, we are all ripe for the adoption of a compromise solution that I am about to offer you. In one case there are reproaches for lobbying, as there is a mention of a specific vaccine, a particular trademark and it can hardly be contested that there is no design here to benefit from the particular brand by submitting it by certain entities. On the other hand, in the other proposal, there is one delay in resolving the problem and transferring the ball to the European Union to purchasing consultations. For me this is also somehow an unspecific text, and I therefore offer you a compromise solution in which we do not focus on the Russian...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u154	Which text do you offer editing to?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u155	Editorial of the BSP proposal. I'll read it. However, this version does not mention the name of a specific vaccine, nor its origin, because if there is or is not present earlier than June Russian vaccine, there may be Chinese vaccine, the day after tomorrow there may be Israeli and not underestimate Bulgaria's outstanding leadership position in this direction, because you know that the BCJ vaccine is Bulgarian and is spreading throughout the world. At the moment we have teams working on the vaccine and may suggest a vaccine very soon. So let us not focus on the origin of the vaccine, on its name, nor on transferring to the European Commission or the Council of Ministers our responsibility. Our responsibility is our responsibility! We are responsible for this decision to the Bulgarian citizens because it can follow tens or hundreds of thousands of deaths until the solution of the problem of the shortage of vaccines. In this regard, I propose the following text: ? RESPONSIBILITY? Instructs the Council of Ministers to take all necessary steps to ensure that the vaccines necessary for the implementation of the National vaccination plan for COVID-19 are carried out in the country after their approval by the Medicines Agency and the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Bulgaria. I'm not pretending to be precise, and I'm asking medical professionals to make the necessary adjustments if necessary. I think one such solution is a compromise between the two proposals. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u156	It is now, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u157	There's a Sputnik.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u158	No, there is an editorial amendment that colleagues can discuss and decide how to vote. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u159	Dear Bulgarian citizens! As you all already know, [[Laughter, GERB lines]] We made this proposal from BSP for Bulgaria, which will assign the Council of Ministers to take all necessary action to secure the Russian vaccine against COVID-19 and the access of Bulgarian citizens to it. Why did we do it? For two reasons. The first, the government of Boyko Borisov failed in the vaccination plan I will rely only on facts. The government paid 13 million vaccines for 500 million. lv. Half a billion! There are no vaccines! The government approved a vaccination plan for the groups to be vaccinated first, and the government repealed this plan. The government defined green corridors, people lined up in queues, and they brought them back because they didn't have vaccines! They've assigned private doctors to make lists and start the vaccination plan. They made them, they wait with the coolers in the queues, there's no vaccines, and the doctors come back, and the patients! That's one reason. The second, we wanted and wanted to provide free choice for Bulgarian citizens from all possibilities for vaccine because the acceleration of the vaccination process will lead to the opening of measures, guaranteeing the health of people, restoring the economy and social life in Bulgaria. What did we get on the other side? GERB refuses to support us with two arguments and one accusation. I want to look at the three of them one by one, and I'm going to disprove them. The first argument: The Bulgarian legislation was against the law to adopt such a decision because the Bulgarian Law on Drugs does not allow us. Dear rulers, you have changed laws twice in 24 hours when it comes to lobbying interests, and I can quote many of those adopted at first and second readings in less than 24 hours if a group should benefit from this law. In the Law on the Emergency in the Transitional and Final Regulations you changed the Law on Gambling and 33 other laws, and now you have no opportunity to change a law if it interferes with you. We say that's not true. Did you know that behind this parliament you have amended the Social Security Code 31 times?! In four years, 31 times! And now that hundreds of people are on the streets waiting in line for vaccines, you can't change a text into a law! This is not an argument, or at least it is not valid. The second argument: We cannot do this without the permission of the European authorities and decisions of the European Commission European Commission spokesperson says he welcomes the efforts of EU countries to obtain vaccines and says this is not contrary to the common strategy. EU countries have the freedom to obtain vaccines outside the European Commission's strategy but under their own responsibility. It means no one's forbidding you. The facts. The Czech Prime Minister says: "Czech Republic can use the Russian vaccine without waiting for it to be approved and doing so; Hungary negotiated for 2 million pieces; Slovakia negotiated; in Austria only six days ago they held talks with Russia at Austrian Chancellor level in a desire not only to deliver but also to produce on Austria's territory. So did Germany. German Health Minister Jens Span says they are ready to provide an opportunity for the production of the Russian vaccine on the territory of Germany. That is, your second argument that Europe is interfering with you is untenable. And now we come to the accusation to the BSP for Bulgaria....our proposal was lobbying for a vaccine! Dear ruling and majority of the European People's Party! Aren't those people I've listed from your political family most of them? Are the Austrian chancellor or the German government or Orban lobbying for the Russian vaccine?! Give me an answer! They not only approach conversations, but buy and make production capacities to produce. If in half of Europe there are lobbyists at the level of leaders and governments of Israel, Turkey, Montenegro, Serbia, then throughout Europe the leaders are covered by some lobbying for the Russian vaccine! No, these people have character and these people are statesmen who think about their peoples, and they are not hiding out of fear or anything else that I will ask you about in a moment, behind the back of the European institutions and the European Commission. Ladies and gentlemen of GERB, why do you refuse to have such opportunities for Bulgaria? It doesn't make any sense what you're saying. In addition to showing you that your arguments are untenable, there must be some reason for you to do so. There are a few options, and you're gonna have to say them truthfully somewhere. The first option you refuse because you have already negotiated and paid 13 million doses for half a billion leva. You've probably run out of money and you're afraid that someday someone might take responsibility for what you've done, where the money is, why the vaccines are gone, and don't you dare take the next step. This is one possibility: fear of being responsible. The second, all day you talk about lobbying by BSP for Bulgaria. Will any of you come here to answer a question that exists in the Bulgarian society: Is it true that a representative of GERB in the European Parliament is close and married with a representative of one of the companies and one of the vaccines for which Bulgaria has agreed, paid, imported and waiting more? Say, is it true? If half of Europe and half of the world call you "Lobistics" for wanting opportunities for their peoples, we ask you about something specific? One vaccine, one MEP and one member of the family representative of this vaccine for Bulgaria? Could that be one of the reasons you didn't want to diversify the vaccines? Is this about lobbying and commissionering? [[Comments from GERB: "This is not lobbying. "]] The third option is because you don't want to accept our decision. Is it possible to refuse, suggesting a third wave, stopping planned operations, increasing the number of infected ones, is it possible to do all this and use this situation for elections to reduce turnout? Is it possible to make thin political accounts at the expense of the health of the nation? And if so, this is exceptional political cynicism and human irresponsibility to the Bulgarian people! If you do not accept our proposal today, we declare on the last day of this Parliament: Dear Bulgarian citizens, when you decide that we are worthy to rule the country and give us confidence that this will be after 4 April this year, one of the first things we will do is to take steps, to provide you with free choice of all vaccines and negotiations for the import of the Russian vaccine into Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u161	Dear Mrs. Ninova, there is no politics with lies, speculation and manipulation. This will not guarantee you success. This opening of your election campaign here will show the Bulgarian citizens that you are actually formally demonstrating concern for their health, and you are really lobbying for a single vaccine. [[Applause from GERB.]] Why didn't you say it, excuse me, not once in your speech? Why do you accuse others of your sins? I would like to stress that, by our decision, we guarantee access by Bulgarian citizens to all vaccines approved by the European regulatory authorities. because, above all, we are concerned that vaccines should be safe, effective and efficient, not whether we will like each other in a foreign country in our political bias. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] [[Applause from GERB]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u162	What was the lie?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u163	Our political bias is the good of the Bulgarian people and dealing with the epidemic. Therefore, honourable Bulgarian citizens... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u164	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u165	... be reasonable in your choice and trust those who really care for your health, life and interests, and do not care for their own lobbying addictions to a particular type of vaccine, violating and promising violations of European and Bulgarian legislation. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u166	What was the lie?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Second line from Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u168	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Ninova, the proposal I made shortly before your speech was actually aimed at not taking away the functions and powers of the other institutions in Bulgaria, nor of the health authorities and not commenting on in foreign policy plan who bought one-what vaccine, who received what amounts, will be delayed or will not be delayed? That's why there are people who, when they make a contract, will put them on the line. Our task is to propose a solution to the problem of lack of vaccines, without going into topics on which we are not professionals. Once again, I urge you to consider and support the proposal that I have made, in which we open the opportunity or rather we entrust the government to purchase all possible vaccines that are approved by the Bulgarian health authorities. Period! We don't need to see what's going to be produced, where it was imported, who used it, who didn't use it. Once again, I appeal to you to return to the proposal I made. In the circle of the joke, if I may, but I cannot somehow accept that any European representative had any family ties. In the same way I can tell you and turn to the entire Chamber, to the whole Bulgarian people: oh, you know, do you know the truth there are BSP MPs who are married to Russian citizens and citizens?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u169	Mr. Simeonov, thank you. Third line? I can't see. Mrs. Ninova, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u170	If I respond to some of what has been said, I will become an accessory to the role of the institution of Parliament, so some of the things I will pass in the name of giving something from our parliamentary group for the authority of Bulgarian parliamentaryism. However, as to the substance of some of the lines. Dear colleagues, how could it be that, when a representative of the Council of Ministers came here and asked the parliament to authorize them to conclude agreements on vaccines that are currently being delivered, then was this not an intervention in the work of the other institutions? We supported you because we wanted vaccines for the Bulgarian people. At the time, this was not interfering with the work of the Council of Ministers. Now that we have to empower the Council of Ministers to expand the opportunities for free choice of Bulgarian citizens, this suddenly becomes an intervention in the work of the executive. How is it that when the BSP for Bulgaria is supporting you for all the vaccines you bought and imported, it does not lobby for them, but now that it wants to expand the scope of the options, it suddenly lobbys for a specific vaccine? What kind of double standards? Come in. You have no answer because you are trying to use any such situation aggressively, with hatred, with denial and constantly. If it's proposed by the opposition, then it's not working. No thought for people, no thought for health, no thought for the crisis, but otherwise demagogically stand here and say: we must be united in fighting this and take care of the Bulgarian people. Come on, enough of this demagogy, because in no case does it work for the parliamentaryism or for the health of the Bulgarian people! We have three proposals tabled so far: one of ours from a week ago, one of the Commission which has reworked on ours, and Mr. Simeonov's editorial proposal, please, Madam President, respect the laws of the state and put the three to a separate vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u171	Of course, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u172	And let's see who fights for what in Bulgaria for who for lobbying, who for political power, who for using the crisis for elections and who care for people? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Colleagues, I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. First, I will apply the editorial amendment of Mr. Simeonov, and there must be a change in the title of the decision to award the Council of Ministers to take all necessary action to ensure that the necessary measures are taken in the country for the implementation of the National vaccination plan for COVID 19 vaccines: I'm sorry. I'm Instructs the Council of Ministers to take all necessary steps to ensure that the vaccines required for the implementation of the National vaccination plan for COVID-19 are carried out in the country after their approval by the Medicines Agency and the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Bulgaria. I'm voting on the editorial amendment I read. Vote 148 MPs: 10, against 1, abstention 137. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the draft decision of the BSP for Bulgaria, which Mr. Mihailov read at the beginning of the meeting. They voted 153 MPs: 62, against 8, abstention 83. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u174	Madam President, I request a re-voting procedure. Colleagues did not understand which of the proposals we were voting because they went against the Rules of Procedure and others failed to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u175	Thank you. All right, Mr. Popov, I will repeat once again what we are going to rethink: this is the proposed draft decision of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Vote 153 MPs: 65 against 9, abstention 79. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Health "The draft decision with which Mrs Daritkova briefed us at the beginning of the meeting. [[Part of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.]] Colleagues, please, we have one more point and parliamentary control after that! They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. It's a consensus proposal. We continue with the second item of today's agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR ROADS. Mr. Nenkov, come in. Are you going to introduce us to the report?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u176	Dear colleagues! I will introduce you to the Report for the Second Voting of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Roads Act No 102-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 February 2021, adopted in the first vote on 19 February 2021. The Law on Roads is amended and supplemented by the Law on Roads and Roads. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Proposal by the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10, para. 14 in the text before t. 1 after the words the points of reference shall be commaed and added to the territory of the border crossing points. Proposal by the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: (a) The liability for incorrect data relating to the registration number of the road vehicle, its category and/or period of validity of the wine charge shall be the owner or its user. In the case of incorrect declared data, it is considered that the road vehicle is not subject to payment of a payment fee. (3b) Where a technical error has been made in declaring the registration number of the road vehicle, including the country in which it is registered or its category, an adjustment may be made by the officials concerned if, following an application for a change of falsely declared data by the owner or user, it is undoubtedly found that no registered road vehicle exists in the Republic of Bulgaria with the identical registration number, country of registration or category initially declared in the wine. The change in the data of the electronic tart shall take effect from the time of the correction and shall have a period of validity until the expiry of the period of validity of the initially issued. Proposal by the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10b the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. The first sentence shall be added as the same only applies to the road vehicle whose registration number has been correctly declared by the owner or user. 2. The creation of para. 4a: The liability for incorrect data on the route map shall be the responsibility of the owner or user. In the case of incorrect data relating to the registration number of the road vehicle, including the country in which it is registered or the period of validity of the route map, it shall be considered that the road vehicle has not been paid toll. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u177	That's it. Are there any statements on the name of the bill as well as on the new paragraphs 1, 2 and 3; and § 1 by importer which becomes § 4? I don't see anyone who wants to. Too bad I don't see people to vote on either. Proceed further.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u178	According to § 2 there is a proposal from the MPs Halil Letifov, Elhan Kulkov and Adlen Shefked, § 2 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 5. Under § 3, there is a proposal from the National Representative Halil Letifov and other colleagues to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 6. Proposal by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the In the event of a mutual agreement between the Agency and the municipalities, the financing of the activities of maintaining sections of the Republican road network outside urbanised territory shall be provided by the municipality concerned. (8) The conditions for the granting of funds in the cases under para. 7 and their size shall be determined in the agreement protocol between the Agency and the municipality concerned. (9) After the signing of a dispute resolution protocol under para. 8 The parties shall take action to change the list of roads covered by the paid road network under art. 10, para. 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 17. According to § 14 there is a proposal made by the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. Article 5 shall be inserted in Chapter 5. 36k s 36n: Art. 36k. (1) In the register referred to in art. 36z1, para. 1 shall be entered: 1. details of persons, including the number of the certificate of professional qualification issued by a higher school accredited under the Higher Education Act and carrying out training in the speciality of the Transport Works and equivalents; 2. date of entry in the register and registration number; 3. date of deletion of the entry in the register and the reasons for it. (2) The persons entered in the register shall inform the President of the State Agency "Safe of traffic on the roads' within 7 days of any change of circumstances relevant to the entry in the register. (3) The conditions and procedures for registration and termination of registration, as well as the keeping of the register under art. 36z1, para. 1 shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in Article 1. 36b, para. 9. Art. 36l. (1) A targeted road safety inspection shall be an independent survey on a road or part of a road to identify dangerous conditions, deficiencies and problems related to all its elements which increase the risk of accidents and injuries. The inspection shall include a visit and an on-site inspection. (2) Based on the findings of inspections under para. 1 Administrations managing the road shall take direct corrective action ensuring road safety. (3) Targeted road safety inspections shall be carried out by expert teams in which at least one of the team members is a road safety auditor. Art. 36 meters. (1) A periodic road safety inspection shall be a verification of the characteristics and deficiencies of the road which require maintenance work for safety reasons. (2) The Road Infrastructure Agency shall carry out periodic inspections of the Republican roads in operation at least twice a year to ensure sufficient safety levels of the specific road infrastructure. (3) Municipal administrations shall carry out periodic inspections of municipal roads in operation at least once a year to ensure sufficient levels of safety of the specific infrastructure. (4) Administrations managing the road and tunnels shall carry out joint periodic road safety inspections of the sections of the road network bordering road tunnels within the meaning of Directive 2004/54/EC. Joint inspections shall be carried out at least every 6 years. Art. 36n. (1) The submission of alerts relating to an established safety risk in relation to road infrastructure and the receipt of information about such persons shall be carried out by means of a single electronic platform. (2) Access to the platform is free. (3) The conditions and arrangements for the development and management of the electronic platform under para. 1 shall be determined by an act of the Council of Ministers. Proposal by the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37 are created. 4 and 5. . (4) When a detailed development plan enters into force, forest areas are affected, after being alienated to state need for the construction of a Republican road network, the extraction and disposal of wood in these territories is carried out under the Law on Forests. (5) All fees for changing the purpose of the affected properties under para. 4 are at the expense of the investor of the site, for the construction of which the state need arose. Proposal by the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: (2) The compensations for the alienated for the needs of the Republican roads real estate within the boundaries of the urbanised territories under art. 37, para. 1 shall be paid by the Road Infrastructure Agency. 2. The creation of para. 4. . (4) Property "public municipal property" may be provided free of charge according to the order of art. 43b of the State Property Act for the construction of Republican Roads, based on a detailed development plan entered into force. According to § 15 there is a proposal from the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 55b and 55c: Art. 55b. (1) It shall be punished with a fine of 500 BGN. a person who carries out a road safety audit without being entered in the register under art. 36z1, para. 1. (2) Road Safety Auditor entered in the register under art. 36z1, para. 1 which does not fulfil an obligation under this law or under the ordinance under art. 36b, para. 9, is punished with a fine of 500 to 1000 BGN. (3) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 or para. 2 the fine is from 2000 to 4000 BGN. Art. 55c. (1) An official who fails to fulfil his obligation under art. 36b, para. 7 to carry out the procedures under art. 36b, para. 1 t. A fine of BGN 500 if the act does not constitute a crime is punishable by a fine of BGN 2. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 fine is 1000 BGN The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 22. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 23. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18, which shall become § 24. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 25. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20 which shall become § 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21 which shall become § 27. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 28. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23 which shall become § 29. Under § 24, there is a proposal from the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the National Representative Halil Letifov and a group of MPs: Paragraph 24 of the Road Traffic Act makes the following amendments and additions: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 164a, para. 8 is amended as follows: , (8) In implementation of the strategy under para. 3 The Minister of Interior, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Minister of Education and Science, the Minister of Health and the Chairman of the State Agency 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 164c, para. 2, 3 and 4 are amended as follows: (2) For the performance of their functions under para. 1 The Chair of the Agency shall interact with: 1. Ministry of Interior; 2. the owner or the driver of the road; 3. The Executive Agency of Automobile Administration shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation and shall be responsible for the 4. the Ministry of Health; 5. The guarantee fund under art. 518 para. 1 of the Insurance Code. (3) In the performance of its functions the President of the State Agency "Safe of traffic on the road" may also interact with other bodies. (4) In case of technical possibility, the interaction under para. 2 may be carried out through access to automated information systems and registers maintained by the authorities under para. 2. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 t. 3 to fall; (b) in para. 2 at the end of the sentence is a comma and is added: The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 30: 30. In the Law on Road Traffic (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3 is created The conditions and procedures for establishing a temporary road safety organisation shall be laid down by a regulation of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works and the Minister of Interior. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: (2) The conditions and procedure for establishing and securing the sections with the concentration of road accidents shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in art. 36b, para. 9 of the Roads Act. (b) the creation of para. 3: In order to ensure the safety of road users, restrictive road systems shall be used under conditions and in order laid down by a regulation of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, which also lays down the requirements for them. 3. Article 5 shall be inserted in Chapter 5. 164 a.m., 164 a.m.: Art. 164a. (1) The Council of Ministers shall determine the state policy on road safety in the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) The state traffic safety policy shall be integrated into the following policies: security and internal affairs, transport, regional development and construction, industry, health, tourism, employment, education and science, e-government, agriculture and forestry. (3) The Council of Ministers shall adopt a National Road Safety Strategy in the Republic of Bulgaria and action plans for its implementation on a proposal from the Chairman of the State Agency. (4) The National Strategy under para. 3 defines the vision, objectives, thematic directions with the areas of impact and specific measures to improve road safety for 10 years. (5) In implementation of the National Road Safety Strategy in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Council of Ministers shall adopt three-year action plans containing measures to achieve the objectives of the strategy, the persons responsible for their implementation, the indicators of impact and result, as well as the deadlines for implementing the measures. The measures under the action plans shall be financially provided, where applicable. (6) On the basis of the three-year action plans, the State Agency shall establish annual operational plans with the content under para. 5. The persons responsible for the implementation of the measures provide the necessary information for them under the National Road Safety Strategy in the Republic of Bulgaria and methodical guidelines of the State Agency. (7) The Council of Ministers shall adopt an annual report on the implementation of the National Road Safety Strategy in the Republic of Bulgaria and the action plan for the previous year. The report shall be drawn up by the Chairman of the State Agency on the basis of the information provided by the persons responsible for the implementation of the measures. (8) In implementation of the National Strategy under para. 3 The Minister of Interior, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Minister of Education and Science and the Minister of Health adopt sectoral road safety strategies agreed with the Chairman of the State Agency. Art. 164b. (1) The State Agency is a legal person of budget support to the Council of Ministers, based in the city of Bulgaria. Sofia. (2) The activity, structure, organisation of work and number of agency employees shall be determined by the rules of procedure adopted by the Council of Ministers. Art. 164B. (1) In the performance of his duties, the President of the State Agency shall: 1. develop or participate in the development of draft regulations relating to road safety; 2. periodically monitor the compliance of the national legal framework in the field of road safety with the sources of European Union law and analyse their proper transposition; 3. develop and propose to the Council of Ministers a draft National Road Safety Strategy in the Republic of Bulgaria and plans for action to it, requesting the necessary information from the responsible institutions; 4. carry out coordination, monitoring, analysis and evaluation in the implementation of the measures provided for in the National Road Safety Strategy in the Republic of Bulgaria and its action plans; 5. develop and validate independently or jointly with the road safety competent authorities guidelines, criteria and methodological guidance; 6. develop and establish rules on the activity and composition of the regional Committees on Road Safety; 7. propose to the Bulgarian Institute of Standardization the development and adoption of standards related to the implementation of road safety policy and participate in the development and updating of draft standards within its powers; 8. approve annual programme plans and adopt annual reports on the implementation of road safety policy developed at regional level; 9. gives mandatory prescriptions for the implementation of the programmes and reports under point 9. 8 in accordance with the regulations, strategic documents and plans thereto, and for compliance with the methodological guidelines for their preparation; 10. prepare an annual report to the Council of Ministers on the state of road safety and on the implementation of the National Road Safety Strategy in the Republic of Bulgaria; 11. give recommendations to the responsible institutions on the implementation of measures to increase road safety in the performance of their statutory duties, as well as those arising from strategic documents and plans to them, standards, rules, manuals, criteria, guidelines and methodological guidance; 12. chair the State Public Advisory Commission on road safety issues and organise its activities; 13. cooperate with the European Commission and international organisations on road safety issues; 14. request information and provide opinions on the developed road safety training programmes, including the textbooks and aids used; 15. cooperate with the competent authorities of other countries with functions in the field of road safety; 16. cooperate with academics, civil society and economic operators on road safety issues; 17. carry out checks on the activity and obligations under art. 3, para. 1 of the persons managing the roads and on the activities under art. 167b, para. Art. 1, Art. 3, Art. 1. 167i, para. 1 and para. 3 to the district and municipal committees on road safety, and issue recommendations and mandatory prescriptions for the removal of findings of non-compliance; 18. assess the fulfilment of obligations arising from the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union in the field of road safety; 19. organise, coordinate and support the implementation of projects in the field of road safety; 20. organise and conduct initiatives, including media and information campaigns, in the field of road safety. (2) For the performance of their functions under para. 1 the Chair of the Agency shall interact with and receive information from: 1. The Ministry of Interior concerning: (a) road accidents and violations of traffic rules which led to them; (b) generalized data on the control activities under the law; (c) written warnings, alert letters and orders to improve road safety and to implement them; (d) aggregated data on registered motor vehicles and their owners; (e) national registers for drivers and their infringements and penalties; (f) ongoing and future activities financed by the Movement Safety Fund under § 1, para. 4 of the additional provisions and by the means referred to in art. 560, para. 1 of the Insurance Code; 2. the owner or the driver of the road concerning: (a) the condition and quality of the roads, road signals and their warranty maintenance, service areas; (b) road construction, reconstruction and repair activities; (c) implementing measures and regulations by the competent authorities relating to improving road safety; (d) operational and medium-term restraint programmes for areas with the concentration of road accidents and the implementation of the measures provided for therein; (e) planned and carried out inspections, inspections, expertises, audits and impact assessments related to road safety and their results; (f) data from technical means of traffic control, traffic organisation, road charges; 3. The Executive Agency of Automobile Administration shall address the following: (a) examinations for the acquisition of motor vehicle driving licence; (b) periodic testing of the technical performance of road vehicles; (c) psychological studies carried out; 4. The Ministry of Health concerning: (a) data on the number of reported cases and on staff from emergency medical care centres injured in road accidents; (b) data on the time of emergency medical assistance to victims of road accidents, as measured from the time of the alert at the Regional Coordination Centre of the Centre for Emergency Medical until the emergency medical team arrives at the scene; (c) data on initial and final diagnosis of road accidents according to the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Health Problems; 5. The guarantee fund under art. 518 para. 1 of the Insurance Code concerning: (a) registered policy on compulsory insurances and liability of motorists and accident of public transport passengers; (b) road accidents documented by bilateral constructive protocols; (c) the number of notifications sent by the Information Centre to the Guarantee Fund of the owners of motor vehicles for which no contract for compulsory insurance has been concluded, the liability of the motorists or the concluded insurance contract has been terminated and has not been renewed. (3) In the performance of his duties, the President of the State Agency may require additional information, including from other bodies. (4) If technically possible, the information under para. 2 shall be provided through access to automated information systems and registers maintained by the authorities under para. 2. Art. 164 C.E. (1) Officials appointed by the Chairman of the State Agency (2) The actions and results of the checks carried out shall be summarised in a report containing the findings, conclusions, evaluations and recommendations made and validated by the Chair of the Agency. (3) The report under para. 2 shall be published on the Agency's website and sent to the persons responsible for the implementation of the recommendations. (4) The President of the Agency or an official authorised by him shall monitor the implementation of the recommendations in the report under para. 2. (5) The responsible persons shall take measures to implement the recommendations and shall inform the Chair of the Agency thereof within a time limit set in the report, which shall be consistent with the nature of the recommendations. (6) Upon failure to comply with the recommendations, the Chair of the Agency shall send a report with proposals to the Council of Ministers or to the relevant municipal council. (7) The conditions, procedure and manner of carrying out the checks under para. 1 and the requirements for officials who carry out them shall be determined by an act of the Council of Ministers. 4. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 167b and 167c: Art. 167b. (1) The Regional Governor shall organise, coordinate, manage and control the implementation of the traffic safety policy at regional level. (2) Regional managers shall be set up regional Committees on Road Safety. (3) The Regional Committees shall plan, coordinate and report the implementation of measures to improve road safety in the field by drawing up annual plans and reports, in line with the National Road Safety Strategy in the Republic of Bulgaria, the action plans for its implementation and the methodical guidelines of the Chairman of the State Agency. (4) The Regional Commission shall be headed by the Regional Governor or an official authorised by him. (5) The district governor shall, by order, determine the name composition of the committee. (6) The Regional Committees on Road Safety shall carry out their activities in accordance with rules established by the President of the State Agency. Art. 167c. (1) The mayors of municipalities: 1. organise, coordinate, manage and control the implementation of traffic safety policy at municipal level; 2. plan and report the implementation of measures to improve the safety of road traffic in the municipality by preparing annual municipal programs and reports according to the National Road Safety Strategy in the Republic of Bulgaria, the action plans for its implementation and the methodical guidelines of the Chairman of the State Agency. 3. are responsible for the financial provision of the measures in the municipal programs. (2) The mayors of municipalities with population over 30 000 inhabitants shall be established municipal committees on road safety, and in those less than 30 000 people with a decision of the respective municipal council, including on a reasoned proposal of the Chairman of the State Agency. (3) The Municipal Committees on Road Safety shall coordinate the implementation of measures to improve the safety of road traffic in the municipality. (4) Municipal Committees on Road Safety shall carry out their activities in accordance with rules established by the President of the State Agency. 5. Article 187a establishes para. 6: In cases where the infringement has been detected and recorded in accordance with art. 167a, para. 3 designated by the Chairman of the Management Board of the Agency Road Infrastructure Officials shall have the right to free access to the Register of the Population "National database "Population" supported by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for the implementation of the powers conferred on them. In the additional provisions: (a) in § 1 para. 2 is amended as follows: (2) The Commission under para. 1: 1. assist the Council of Ministers in making decisions related to road safety; 2 give opinions on draft laws and regulations relating to road safety; 3. make proposals for planning in the state budget of the necessary costs related to ensuring road safety; 4. give opinions on the measures and activities undertaken by state authorities and organisations; 5. give opinions and proposals for measures for the implementation of international road safety programmes. (b) § 1a is repealed; (c) in § 6: (aa) paragraph 52 is amended as follows: "52." A road that meets the requirements of art. 3, para. 7 of the Roads Act. bb) To be created t. 74 and 75: '74. The road safety is the state of the human vehicle system an environment where the occurrence of accidents may be prevented and the consequences of road accidents already occurring may be limited. In order to achieve this, it is affected by a comprehensive, preventive and consistent approach to creating conditions for the protection of life and human health by applying a set of measures aimed at minimum: developing a sparing road infrastructure; forming responsible behaviour of road users; technicality and safety of vehicles; carrying out effective control and prevention of infringements; adequate and timely follow-up by the components of the single rescue system. 75. The road users, pedestrians and road users, particularly children, elderly people and people with disabilities, as well as the drivers of two-wheel road vehicles, are vulnerable. 7. Paragraph 11 shall be inserted in the transitional and final provisions. 4. (4) Information on the planned and implemented measures under para. 3 shall be made available annually to the State Agency. Under § 25, there is a proposal made by the MP Halil Letifov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 31. Proposal by the National Representative Alexander Nenkov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code (prom., SG No. (c) Paragraph 70 of the Transitional and Final Provisions shall be amended as follows: ...... 70......................................................................... The order of Art. 26a, para. 1 of the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and for overcoming the consequences, shall apply until 5 April 2021 including. Proposal by the National Representative Alexander Nenkov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 33: ................................................ In the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and for overcoming the consequences (promise, SG No. ...) in art. 26a is created. 3, 4 and 5: The State shall provide to tour operators grants up to 15 per cent of their turnover without VAT in 2019, but not more than the amount due under the tourist packages for unfulfilled travel, which shall be used only to recover the amounts due to customers for unfulfilled travel during the period from 1 March 2020 to 31 December 2020 due to the outbreak of the COVID-19. (4) The funds under para. 3 shall be provided under conditions, criteria and order of percentage of turnover determined by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Tourism under the unused funds under the State aid scheme under para. 1. The funds under para. 3 shall be obtained regardless of the receipt of funds under para. 1 and subject to State aid rules. (5) The funds under para. 3 shall be paid after receiving a positive decision from the European Commission on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market on the basis of art. 107, paragraph 3, point (b) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Under § 26, there is a proposal from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov, made in accordance with Article 26. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 26, which shall become § 34: ................. The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of § 18 concerning art. 36 m, para. 3 which shall enter into force one year after the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal of the European Union and § 33, which shall enter into force on 6 April 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u179	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. I open the debates on the Bill.. its name; new paragraphs 1 to 23 including; the name of Section.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the name of the Law; the new paragraphs 1 to 3; and § 1 which becomes § 4 Vote 82 MPs: 79, none, abstention 3. The name of the Law and paragraphs 1 to 4 have been adopted. I put to the vote the motion to reject § 2 by Khalil Letifov and a group of MPs; and all other proposals that have been accepted and rejected. Vote 81 MPs: 3 against 60, abstention 18. Paragraph 2 is rejected. The proposal of Halil Letifov and a group of MPs for the rejection of § 2 has not been accepted. I shall put to the vote § 2 by importer, which shall become § 5. Vote 80 MPs: 77, none, abstention 3. Paragraph 2 was adopted with a new I put to the vote the proposal rejected by the Commission by Khalil Letifov and a group of MPs for the dismissal of § 3. Vote 79 MPs: 1 against 64 abstentions 14. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote: the text of § 3 which becomes § 6 by importer; the text of the new § 7; § 4 which becomes § 8 by importer; paragraphs 5 to 10 which become paragraphs 9 to 14 by importer; paragraphs 11, 12 and 13 by importer which become paragraphs 15, 16 and 17; § 14 which becomes § 18 by Commission version; the new paragraphs 19 and 20; § 15 which becomes § 21 by Commission version; paragraphs 16 and 17 by importer, which become paragraphs 22 and 23; the name of Section Vote 81 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 3. All the above paragraphs and the name of the Section have been adopted. I put to the vote the proposal of Khalil Letifov and a group of MPs for the dismissal of § 24, which was rejected by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 1 against 67 abstentions 12. The motion is rejected. I shall put to the vote § 24, which shall become § 30 in the version of the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 77, none, abstention 3. The paragraph has been adopted. I put to the vote the proposal of Khalil Letifov and a group of MPs for the dismissal of § 25 which the Commission does not accept. Vote 79 MPs: 2 against 68 abstentions 9. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 25, which shall become § 31; and the texts of the new paragraphs 32, 33 and 34 in the version of the Commission. Vote 78 MPs: 76, none, abstention 2. Paragraph 25 by importer which becomes § 31; as well as the texts of the new paragraphs 32, 33 and 34 have been adopted, which also adopted the Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act. This concludes the legislative work of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. The historic vote was the last. A successful election campaign and a break! Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions for the period 26 February 4 March 2021 are not available. Written answers for service by: - Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov on two questions from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov on a question from the National Representative Krasen Krastev; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov on a question from the MPs Anna Slavova and Evdokiya Asenova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Georgi Alexandrov; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Alexandrov; - Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev on 10 questions from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov 20 questions from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Yavor Bojankov; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov on a question from the National Representative Yavor Bojankov; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov to a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov to two questions from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the MPs Valentina Naydenova and Milko Nedyalkov; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the National Representative Irena Anastasova; - Minister of Economy Lachezar Borisov on a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova. The written answers have been completed and you can get them. We're moving on to parliamentary control for today. The first question is to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy and Minister of Tourism Mrs. Mariana Nikolova. The issue is from the MPs Krum Zarkov and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov on ensuring the storage of voting machines. Mr. Zarkov, if you'd like to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u180	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Deputy Prime Minister, we are finishing Parliament with a topic which has been discussed many times in this House in different directions, namely the introduction of machine voting. The final decision that was enshrined in the Election Code is that there will be a mixed vote. In all sections with over 300 voters there will be a paper ballot and an opportunity for machine exercise of the right to vote. You know, our wish was to be only a machine vote in these large sections, and this debate has ended and it obliges the administration of the Council of Ministers and the Central Election Commission according to their competence to provide a large number of machines - 9600 - which, by our calculation, will cost little less than 5 million. lv. and which must be stored, certified, provided for the relevant logistics so that there is absolutely no doubt in terms of their performance and that they are not manipulative. However, part of all this effort is to provide an additional guarantee of honesty and proper reading of the vote. In this sense, the government is very responsible for securing the process of taking these machines to the sections. You have been appointed a member of the government responsible for securing the electoral process, and that is why we have referred to you our question, namely: what measures are planned to ensure the integrity of external factors and therefore the storage of voting machines purchased by the Central Election Commission for the election for MPs, which will take place on 4 April this year?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u181	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, the stands are all yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u182	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear gentlemen Zarkov and Ivanov! On the occasion of your question, what measures are being taken to ensure the integrity of external factors and the storage of voting machines purchased by the CEC for the election of MPs on 4 April 2021, I provide the following information: Specialized electronic machine voting devices are stored in an independent storage hall of a logistics centre located in the area of Iskar. By order of the Central Election Commission of the Ministry of Interior on 18 February 2021, a security survey of the hall was carried out in accordance with the requirements of Regulation No RD-02-20-6 of 19 December 2016 on the technical requirements for the physical security of construction works and the methodological guidelines for carrying out a security audit of objects No 81-21-Z-863 of 3 July 2017, the relevant protocol has also been drawn up. Since 19 February 2021, security of the building and the area with 24-hour posts has been organized. The area and storage room are under 24-hour surveillance, access to them is restricted and will take place only from one entry by certain persons. A list is provided by the Central Election Commission for carrying out checks on the persons from the company Siela Norma. On 19 February 2021, a working meeting was held at which coordination and interaction between the representatives of the Ministry of Interior, the logistics centre and the trader engaged in private security activities on the territory of the site itself were specified and refined. An organization has been established to ensure the fire safety of the site. During the security investigation of the warehouse hall, the authorities of the "Fire safety and protection of the population" have found that there are documentation required by the regulations, provided conditions for successful evacuation and fire protection facilities, fire alarm system, sprinkler fire extinguishing system, fire cranes and ventilation system. The external water supply for fire extinguishing is also secured. Recommendations on the maintenance and maintenance of the available ventilation system have been given. The site has daily control to comply with fire safety rules and regulations. A situational scheme of the warehouse has been prepared in relation to the preparation for the eradication of a possible fire. There is organized fire-tactical training in the warehouse hall with participation of forces and funds of the Sofia Directorate of Fire Safety and Protection of the Population.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u183	Thank you, Madam Secretary. - What's the line? Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u184	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! We understand that even if the hall burns, the machines will burn well, i.e. under the supervision of the Fire Department, but that is not our main question. Our question is: why are these machines not guarded by the state? Why were they handed over to a private company? Why the Council of Ministers did not ensure that they were in a warehouse provided by the Council of Ministers, which is guarded by the Ministry of Interior and to stay away from any possible speculation about machine manipulation. I would ask you to answer me is this information that has leaked to the media that the investigation by the Ministry of Interior has identified criminal persons who have access to the machines which, in itself, if so, is extremely scandalous? And why this transfer of responsibilities was necessary, you yourself stated, when the Council of Ministers appointed you in charge of the government for the elections, that you are trying to hold an honest, impartial election, without violations, and we already have a floor for a false start at the very beginning. At the very least, you know what the discussion was about the length of the machine vote. They were introduced precisely because people have doubts about the electoral process and some such actions would greatly deepen those doubts that Bulgarian citizens have about the honesty of elections. And at the end of the day, would you do what is necessary for these machines to be taken into custody of the state, not a private company, not a private security firm, not someone who could do some kind of manipulation on them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u185	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u186	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, on the occasion of the further questions you have asked, I would like to state firmly that the security of the technical devices is provided by the Ministry of Interior and at the moment the forces of the Gendarmeria are guarding the site, including with regard to access control. As to whether there have been unauthorised admissions, I can state that there have been none at this time. On the list that the Central Election Commission provided to the Ministry of Interior on request to verify specific persons, namely whether they had any checks by the services and whether they had committed any crimes, I can clearly state that the list provided to the Ministry of Interior and provided such information certainly did not have access. The list shall be made available by the CEC to the Ministry of Interior for verification. But these faces didn't have any access to the machines. I would also like to provide you with additional information concerning the storage of machines for the audit of those machines. In accordance with art. 213, para. 2 of the Election Code The State Agency "Electronic Management" jointly with the Bulgarian Institute for Standardization and the Bulgarian Institute of Meteorology certify the compliance of the type of technical device supplied for machine voting with the requirements of art. 213, para. 3 of the Election Code and the requirements of the technical specification. In fulfilling this obligation, on 19 February 2021, employees of the State Agency of Electronic Governance, explicitly authorized by order of the President, received with a reception and transmission protocol from the Central Election Commission and the contractor for the procurement of 9600 specialized machinery voting devices. The procedures for storage, access and operation in the Agency with technical devices and the supporting documentation in the process of carrying out the conformity verification activities under art. 213a of the Election Code are written in explicit rules. Pursuant to those rules, devices and accompanying documentation shall be kept in the security area in the Agency's Information Security Unit at an appropriate location which does not permit unauthorised access. The security area is equipped with 24-hour video surveillance and access control equipment. The conformity verification activities of technical devices shall be carried out by conformity assessment teams in a specially equipped room in the Agency with 24-hour surveillance and controlled access. Access to the hall has employees who are specifically authorized by order.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-03-05.u187	Thank you for your comprehensive response, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. The next group of questions are to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Mrs. Desislava Taneva, who will answer two questions of the National Representative Maria Yordanova Tsvetkova, which we do not see in the Chamber. First call for Maria Tsvetkova. Second call for Maria Tsvetkova. Third call for Maria Tsvetkova. We don't see her showing up. I'm shutting down parliamentary control. Thank you, Madam Minister, for being disciplined and present for the questions, and you are ready to give answers. This concludes parliamentary control, as well as the historical activity of the 44th National Assembly. I am closing the parliamentary day, parliamentary control and the 44th National Assembly! God save Bulgaria! [[PHONE RINGING]]
