ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 53rd session of the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to inform you that in a few moments Mr. Miloš Zeman will be visiting our meeting hall of the President of the Republic. [[There are fanfares from the opera Libuše, the president enters the hall, all present rise.]] Dear guests, allow me to welcome Mr. Miloš Zeman's President of the Republic and give him my word. Please, Mr. President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-000-000.u2	Madam Vice-President, honourable members of the Government, honourable fellow Members, as I look around for this House, in which I have lived for many years, there are relatively few people who have gone through Czech politics together with us since 1990, and therefore I would like to ask you to be indulgent in the memories of the old armory who still remembers this annabasa. And perhaps the experience of it will be a little useful for some of you. In 1990, in the then Federal Assembly, I became chairman of the Committee on Budgets, and the sea was knee-deep, and I was convinced that I understood the budgetary issue perfectly. I resembled a famous figure of an Angličan who visited India, stayed there for several weeks, and then published a 500 - page book that said "All About India." He left, returned a few years later and published a detailed article, not a book, a few remarks about India. And at the end of his life, his last article was called India, a country unknown. Well, I don't want to say that the budgetary issue I'm going to talk about today is a completely unknown matter, but I would like to remind you that, like Michelangelo, he was cutting off a stone before he got to the statue of David, so I, like my colleagues, had to chop off a few untrue hypotheses or prejudices on the budget issue before I reached just three constants of budgetary policy that endured this huge forgery. The first constant is based on the Keynesův book General Theory of Interest, Employment and Money, from which one key phrase can be prepared: At a time of economic crisis, or depression, or recession - but now I will not deal with the nuances of these three terms - the budget is to be deficitd to act countercyclically. In a period of economic prosperity, on the contrary, the budget is to be surplus, and something in between means that the budget will be balanced. Our budgetary policy in most of these last years has gone exactly the other way around. When I was prime minister, I tried at a time when the local economic crisis had been here since 1997, so that the budget would be deficitful, but when the economy began to rise, I tried to push down the budget deficit. I was helped by an agreement with the strongest opposition party at the time, which demanded this compression as a condition of tolerance for my government and budgetary policy. And today I will tell you honestly, thank God for this agreement, because every minister of any government is prepared to spend unlimited resources and helps him in what János Kornai called an suction reflex. You're sucking on budget resources and sucking on and sucking on forever. Well, since I was bound by this agreement, the case ended with a total state budget deficit of 46 billion in 2002. The crown, but 36 billion of it. the so-called transformation debts were concentrated in the Consolidation Bank, and only 10 billion. was a clean deficit. And then another period came after 2002. And there was a terrible sentence. The sentence was: Sources are. One of the dumbest sentences that could have been spoken in economic policy at any time and in any country. Then it turns out that this source is a state debt. And because the government was not bound by any agreement at the time, it was spending happily and increasing the state budget deficit even in conditions where economic growth ranged between 5 and 6 percent of the gross domestic product. That, in short, was crime number one. And right after that, crime number two came in. The economic crisis in 2008, the global, not local, economic crisis, and instead of really implementing deficit funding, budgetary policy was restrictive, in other words, a strangulation. And so it happened that, while neighbouring countries were already coming out of the crisis, our economy, thanks to this opposite, misguided budgetary policy, was unfortunately still in decline. [[9.10 hours]] Well, now I'm getting to the present. I am deeply convinced that the proven rule, and this is constant number two, is: Investment spending is always supposed to be higher than household consumption. And household consumption spending is always supposed to be higher than government consumption. It has to do with one belief which, truth, is not generally shared, because we are fascinated by the growth of gross domestic product and we are little aware that this growth is about 70 percent of household consumption. In other words, when you eat two hamburgers instead of one, gross domestic product will grow, but economic performance will not grow, labor productivity will not grow and competitiveness will not grow. The only thing that's gonna increase is the obesity rate of the population. But that's about it. Therefore, the axiom number three is: investment dynamics are the most important for real economic growth. Of course, I can imagine investments that are inefficient. I used to criticize the fact that hours were built for expensive money in Brno on Freedom Square, which had only one disadvantage, and that they didn't show time, but once every 24 hours some kind of ball fell out of them. But if we measure investment with a multiplier effect, then we can agree that the highest multiplier has investment in infrastructure and immediately behind it is investment in housing. And by that, of course, I am moving on to the current bill on the state budget, the law of the law, or the law of the year. I very much welcome the fact that the Treasury's implementation of the state budget is surplus, even significantly surplus, and I appreciate that this surplus has been achieved not only by economic growth, but also by a reasonable tax policy, by reducing tax fraud, for example, by monitoring reports has already led to a reduction of fraudulent return on value added tax. But on the other hand, I criticize that part of this surplus has been triggered by a sharp reduction in investment. And here you can make excuses for many, partly legitimately, partly unjustly. I know that public investment depends to a large extent on investment in transport infrastructure, that there is a known restriction on the bureaucratic European Commission with the new EIA, that we are at the start of drawing in the new programming period, and so on and so on. I have also heard the objection that there is a high benchmark base from 2015, when there was an investment boom, and therefore the investment has now fallen. And I ask, well, why isn't the investment boom this year? What's stopping it? What causes, for example, that construction, which is a boom indicator, is still below the 2008 level? This is, therefore, one of the negative points that I consider necessary to mention in the overall positive assessment of the treasury implementation of the state budget, precisely in order to prevent its repetition and to continue the investment boom in the coming years. You know, when discussing the State Budget Act, the Finance Minister is playing a weakening game because he's playing against all the other members of the government. Perhaps that's why either the Prime Minister or the President must always stand up for him, preferably both. And this stand must not be uncritical. In addition to the already mentioned suction reflex, we should look for real savings in the draft state budget. And I blame this proposal for almost ignoring two sources that are large in volume, although I admit that it is difficult to reach. The first source is the backpack. A backpack full of rocks, not full of meat cans. A batoh called a renewable resource subsidy. The total amount of these subsidies is expected to be CZK 45 billion, of which only in the budget of the Ministry of Industry and Trade it is CZK 25 billion. I know that this senseless bursica policy was established at some point in 2005, but this does not excuse the current government from doing anything about it, whether through tax or other measures. I would like to remind you that while the market price of power electricity is one koruna per kilowatt hour and subsidies, for example, on me, the sympathetic small hydropower plants are only two kroner, the solar energy subsidy is fifteen kroner. I repeat once again: 15 times more than the market price. At the same time, you know that the price of solar panels has decreased by two thirds and that the guaranteed profit for this business has thus doubled and has become an effortless profit. Well, that's the first package. I don't know if it's the solar mafia lobby, I don't know if it's any other pressure, including green fanaticism, which supports renewable resources, but in any case, it's something that hurts the Czech economy. Now, remember, without changing the rules, we will carry this backpack on our backs for at least another ten years and waste resources that could be used for health, education and many other areas, such as the protection of cultural monuments, which are greatly decaying in our country. [[9.20 hours]] The second backpack or the second burden are welfare benefits. You might be surprised to hear that word from left-wing politics. And while there are welfare benefits that help people, there are social benefits that hurt people, for example, by unlearning them to work. In other words, we have a few meaningless types of social benefits, such as the housing supplement that generated the poverty trade in the form of a hostel. After all, there is also a contribution to housing, which could also be successfully discussed, but we also have a happy-sounding dose called support in material distress. I spoke to former Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Koníček recently and he told me: Everyone who asks for a contribution in material distress gets it. And when the CEO of the Labor Office came to me, she basically confirmed that aggressive clients were threatening to slash the windows, slash the kids, and that's how almost everyone gets that dose. At the same time, labour authorities record those who have rejected the job offered without being prevented from doing so seriously, e.g. medical reasons. We should take advantage of this record, and as the recently adopted law is anticipating, we should limit social benefits to those who refuse to work and who ridicule those who go to work honestly every day. Because almost 400,000 unemployed are mostly physically unemployed. Not because they have to, but because they want to. And if we add up the amount of social benefits paid in this way, we're going to get about half as much as the subsidies on renewables. So these are two underutilised sources of savings that I blame for this draft state budget. Since each coin has two sides, and since each balance includes both giving and giving, I would like to say with pleasure that, overall, not only the draft state budget, but also the already mentioned cash flow, I consider it positive and I will express my support to it, also with this speech. Colleagues and colleagues, almost every speech I give ends in a bonmot, and you will not be spared even today. Nearly four years ago, I committed a certain indiscretion. When discussing the new government's programming statement, I said that if the Minister of Finance, with this amount of planned budget expenditure, could achieve a balanced budget, I would propose it for the Nobelův Prize for Economics. It's still December. The 55 billion reported budgetary surplus may dissolve. We'll wait for January. But if they don't disappear, I'm already telling you today that I'm looking for the address of the Nobel Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-000-000.u3	I thank the President for his speech and his visit to the House. At this point, I'm interrupting the meeting for five minutes, we'll continue at 9:30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-000-000.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we will now continue the adjourned meeting. I'd like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, let me know who's applying for a replacement card. I declare that these Members have asked to apologise for their failure to participate in the negotiations. Jan Hamáček within 12 hours due to foreign travel, Markéta Adamová from 16.30 for personal reasons, Marek Benda for health reasons, Marek Černoch for health reasons, Ivan Gabal for foreign travel, Olga Havlová for family reasons, until 14.30 for personal reasons Soňa Marková, Josef Novotný for no reason, Igor Nykl for health reasons, Anna Putnová for work reasons, Jan Sedláček for health reasons and until 11 hours for foreign travel by Mr Pavel Šrámek. The members of the government apologize from 14:00 for reasons of employment Pavel Bělobrádek, from 13:30 to 16:30 for reasons of employment Michaela Marksová, Jan Mládek for reasons of foreign travel, from 14:00 for reasons of foreign travel the Minister Robert Pelikán, also Kateřina Valachová for health reasons and Lubomír Zaorálek for reasons of foreign travel. The other note I have is from 13 o'clock to the end of the meeting for personal reasons and from 8 tomorrow. 12. Mr Martin Novotný apologizes for the whole day for working reasons. Furthermore, on Wednesday, from 9.30 to 11 for personal reasons, Mrs Gabriela Hubáčková apologises. With the replacement card number 22, Mr Vondráček will be voting today. Today, we should focus on the fixed points: 183, this is the House's 921, the State Budget for 2017, the third reading, and also paragraphs 184, 185,186, which are the House's 922, 923 and 952 related to the state budget, and paragraph 201, it is the House's 724, the copyright law, the third reading. We would then discuss other points from the third reading block according to the approved agenda and also points 40, 132 and 261, which are House prints 681, 853, and information from the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok. I wonder if anyone has any suggestions to modify the agenda. This is President Faltýnek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-000-000.u5	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President. Given that yesterday we did not just discuss the first reading of the Act on Occupational Soldiers and we ended up de facto before the vote - the last application by President Stanjura - so let me propose, at the request of the Minister of Defence, a firm inclusion of this point on behalf of our MP. This is point 39, the government's proposal on professional soldiers, House press 958, first reading, for today firmly after the already firmly classified point number 132. I beg you to support this proposal so that we can move this bill to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-000-000.u6	Thank you and I ask if anyone else is applying for an amendment to the agenda. Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-000-000.u7	I understand the proposal. Yesterday, I was gonna suggest we act after 7:00 p.m. to discuss this, and I didn't make it. However, in order to support it, I would modify the proposal to make it possible for this point to be included after all the points already firmly included. Don't let it happen again that if one point passes by the opposition, another point is placed before it. So my counterproposal is that this item from the first reading of the Occupational Soldiers Act should be included after all the fixed points we have on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-000-000.u8	Thank you. Mr. Chairman of the Faltýnek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-000-000.u9	Allow me to respond to this counterproposal by my colleague Stanjura. I deliberately proposed a firm inclusion of this point before this, I suppose, a long debate about the D8, for which Minister Ťok is prepared, and here we assumed that this would take relatively briefly. But if we put it behind the debate and that special point on the D8 motorway, it might not come to that again. That's why I suggested it this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-000-000.u10	Thank you. Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-000-000.u11	But this is on you, Mr President, through the Vice-President. We've called an emergency meeting. Minister Took didn't actually respond to it. You killed the program. We could have had this conversation a long time ago. I don't know what makes you think there's gonna be a long D8 hearing. I don't know. I don't suppose it's going to be much longer. And it's not an extraordinary point. It's a point like any other. But once again it turns out that if the opposition accidentally passes through a proposal, if it does not actually start to discuss it, it is not worth rejoicing that we will discuss it. Because it doesn't have to be. I think my offer is fair because I agree that we can only finish this - so don't mess with us. Leave it the way it was. Thank you. But I say, why are you when the minister is ready - why wasn't he ready for an emergency meeting? Why did all of you - the Minister did not - but why did you vote against the adoption of the programme? We could have had this discussion a long time ago. And you didn't want to do that. And today you come and say, "Be reasonable, the minister is ready today." We were ready then. We're ready for anything today. Even the soldiers will be early. But so you don't motivate us to happen to debate professional soldiers isn't very long. Because the debate has not yet been closed. So we're not before the vote yet. We'll consider it very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-000-000.u12	Thank you. On paragraph 39, I note two proposals when they can be included. I think he'll decide the vote. I ask if anyone else has a proposal to modify or amend the proposed program. I can't see. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals as they have been tabled. There is a proposal that paragraph 39 on professional soldiers, House press 958... The first proposal is for it to be firmly placed after paragraph 132, and there is a counterproposal for it to be placed after all the points already firmly assigned. So first of all, we will put the counter-proposal to the vote. If he fails, we will vote on the proposal of President Faltýnek. [[A Member of the Sklenák claims the floor.]] Mr. Sklenák, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-000-000.u13	I believe that we should vote on these proposals as they have been tabled. One proposal to amend the programme was made by Mr Faltýnek, the other by colleague Stanjura. And this is how they should be voted in my opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-000-000.u14	Okay. I do not object to this procedure. In that case, we will first vote on the proposal made by President Faltýnek, which is that we will place paragraph 39 firmly after paragraph 132. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the program's modification, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 137. 173 Members and Members are registered for proposal 99, against 28. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been approved. This dealt with the proposals for adjusting the agenda for the meeting. We'll continue with the approved show. I'm opening the first point of today's meeting, and that's
