ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u1	1. Proposal for a Sales Time Act in Retail and Wholesale /Departmental Press 275/6/ - returned to the Senate Senator Bublan is here for the plaintiff, but we have not yet voted on his presence in the Chamber. So I will first vote on Senator Bublan's presence in the Chamber. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 28, registered is 156 Members, for 131, against none. The motion was accepted. I welcome Senator František Bublan and Senator Karel Kratochvíle, and I therefore ask that Senator František Bublan speak for the plaintiff for the Senate resolution and for the amendment tabled. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to apologize for my previous absence. It was given a bit of a misunderstanding, because in the Senate resolution, the Senate entrusts Senators Karel Kratochvíle and Miroslav Nenutil to justify the last Senate resolution. However, in agreement with the legislation, we have come to the conclusion that I must be here as the original plaintiff, and the two Senators mentioned are as if the rapporteurs for this new resolution of the Senate. So it was a misunderstanding. I didn't count on it. Luckily, I was in a nearby Senate building, so I did a little bit more. It's just an apology. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Otherwise, as far as the bill is concerned, we've been here about four times, so there's no need to remind him. It's about regulating sales time in those big stores, bazaars with used goods. And it defines it for selected public holidays and holidays. The will of the Senate was such that -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u3	I am very sorry, Senator, but I will ask the Members present to remain calm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u4	The will of the Senate was that we would stay for the seven selected public holidays and holidays as they were presented in the original form. The vote was quite clear in the Senate. So I am only going to ask you to support the original proposal, and I believe that the entire annabasis, which lasts almost two years, will be successfully completed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u5	Thank you, Senator Bublan. Do the rapporteurs, Mr Karel Šidlo, want to speak gradually about the proposed amendment to the Senate? Not interested. And the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mr Jaroslav Zavadil? Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests. I would also like to welcome a group of employees from the very trades that we are now deciding, here between us, when they have finally come after two years to decide on this very standard. I believe that, as my colleague Senator Bublan has already said, there is no need to comment much on these matters, everything has already been said. I would just like to ask the House of Honor to support the Senate's proposal as presented by my colleague Senator Bublan and my colleague Senator Kratochvíl. So I ask for the support of this proposal so that, after two years, we can finally come to a conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. I'm opening up a debate. Senator Karel Kratochvíle will be the first to speak in the debate. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u8	Thank you for the floor. I'm here for the second time, so I hope this is the last time. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to give a brief introductory word on the draft sales time law in retail and wholesale, House press 575 and Senate press 263, which you have before you. The Senate was the designer of the original bill. The proposal began to be discussed in July 2014 and now, almost two years later, we are faced with its final approval. What will be his final form, it is now up to the Chamber of Deputies. The process of approving this bill was very difficult because of the originally proposed number of seven holidays at which the selling time would be limited, the Chamber of Deputies released most important state and other holidays from the Senate bill, i.e. Easter Monday, 28 September - Day of Czech Statehood, 28 October - Day of Creation of the independent Czechoslovak State, but also 8 May - Day of Victory. The Senate believes that it is necessary to return the bill to its original form, as approved by the Senate. In particular, two reasons lead him to do so. The first reason is that, on 25 and 26 December and on 1 January, most shops are closed today anyway, and it makes no sense to impose this limitation on the selling time by law when it does so regardless of the law. The second reason is that the Senate believes that the list of original public holidays and other holidays that remind citizens of the Czech Republic of their history should be maintained, whether it is the Day of Czech Statehood and the emergence of independent Czechoslovakia or the Day of Victory, or it is a very important church holiday, such as Easter and Christmas. These holidays must also be remembered not only as Christmas and New Year's holidays, especially today it is necessary to keep up with our Czech sovereignty and statehood. The Senate certainly does not aim to determine what people are to do in their free days. But in order for those who are free to spend important holiday days in shopping centres together with those who have to work this day as employees in shopping centres, this is a situation that does not remind citizens that many years ago the same day meant a great deal to the Czech state. That is why the Senate is proposing to the Chamber of Deputies to support the Senate version of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u9	Thank you, Mr. Senator. With a factual remark, Mr František Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would just like to be technically, in case the vote on this bill, whether on the Senate version or on the House version, is so that it is interrupted before, because we are to meet with Minister Brabc because of his messed up EIA for negotiations. And I would ask very much - I want it to be registered that I will vote against both the Senate proposal and the original proposal. And towards Mr. Senator, what he said here. So please, why don't you act according to what you're saying here? Why do your co-workers constantly hoist the main bearers of tradition, the main bearers, and the promoters of these often church holidays? Why are you doing exactly the opposite of what you're saying here? I'd sign up for what you said here, but in case you finally start doing a real policy that reflects what you're saying. And you don't do that. Respectfully, your coworkers, your teammates, don't do that. You're doing the exact opposite! You're really creating a mood in society against churches, not just against one. Your colleagues here did not support us to anchor our values, and here you come with this law. So match your behavior so that what you say also works in your real political practice. Now, don't take this personally, I'm talking to the side of social democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u11	I thank Mr Laudát. In fact, Mr Ivan Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, something has been said here so that we can finally come to a reasonable conclusion. A reasonable conclusion is the only one. Deny both versions! Why should we interfere with the private sphere? And the naive attempt at social engineering, which has been made out of the mouth of the senator, I hope there's no need to comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u13	I thank Mr Pilný. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the Citizen's Democratic Party Citizen's Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u14	First of all, I would fully support the proposal of the President of the Economic Committee. But I'm appealing with a personal request to the senator. I believe that by mistake, the last time we discussed this, he said on the microphone that someone in our Senate club supported this bill when we voted. It's not true. I'd like the senator to take those words back. I believe it wasn't intentional. I took the job, I looked up the vote when it was first voted in the Chamber of Deputies. [[unintelligible]] No member of the Civic Democratic Party Club supported this bill. I believe, Senator, that it wasn't intentional, but we're used to being wrong here, and the other side will show him that he was wrong, that he would come and say, I'm sorry, I was wrong, it wasn't intentional. [[16.50 hours]] Then I want to say that I am certainly not the only one who held the position of the Chamber of Commerce, which is not only strongly opposed, also points out the possible unconstitutional elements of this law and discrimination against a particular group of entrepreneurs. And even the government admits to discrimination in its explanatory report, where it says that there will be great discrimination and that this is a prerequisite for the effect of the law. And I don't want to come back again, because we're already debating this for the fifth time, the legendary 200 square meters, when the senator is unable to say why not 190, why not 210, who's going to measure it, and he's going to be able to deal with it somehow. But what is key - why do you want to tell people how to behave again? If people didn't want to shop, business would be empty, and businessmen would shut it down themselves. But you're smarter, wiser, more educated, and I don't know what anything like citizens who, imagine, go shopping these days! It's their free choice, so please respect him. You personally who oppose, don't go there, don't shop, nobody makes you. We also do not propose the bill that you have to go shopping at selected hours, so you do not force us again to draft the law when we must not go shopping. Let each of us decide. And if the citizens decide not to shop there, then believe that the shops will be closed because it doesn't pay the owner to open the store. It's that simple. No, we've been here, I don't know, for a year, two years, over and over again. Then it was a comical decision by the Chamber of Deputies last time, when we all actually know that three days is closed, so just to be safe, we're gonna make it a law. Excellent! Well, I didn't vote for it, I said straight away, but of course it's less harmful than senate, but I'm not gonna support either version of it, none of our club, because it doesn't make any sense. And the truth here was quite simply told by the chairman of the Economic Committee. We could also order the senators to sit for three weeks a month, right? Because we also sit three weeks a month, we have the same reward, so that's discriminatory, isn't it? What do you say, colleagues? If it goes through, maybe we can offer something like that, then maybe they'll have less time to come up with such impractical bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u15	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Antonín Seďa. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I understand my colleague Stanjur by your means that he defends the interests of employers, and we defend the interests of employees. That's the big difference!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u17	Thank you. Mr František Laudát, Mr Pilný, followed by Mr František Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u18	Thank you for the floor. I have to retreat because of Mr. Speaker's claim. First of all, you're defending them by sending them to the employment office if the economy cools down. For the next one. Those who urgently need to improve their social situation will be deprived of bonuses. For the next one. You can send to the employment office those entrepreneurs, businessmen and others who have business, those employees who work in those small stores that are in business centers. So please don't let anyone say that! The exact opposite is true. And since you already have the touching care of employees, I just want to point out that you are acting the same way, as well as sending small businessmen, self-employed workers, through electronic sales records and more and more. So please, the exact opposite is true! Don't tell me you represent employees here! You're doing a classic policy against employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u19	I thank Mr Laudát. With a factual remark, Mr Ivan Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I mean, in my opening speech in the House, I said that God or nature created us with two ends -- we sit on one and think on the other. And I've urged everyone to use the right ending to think at least once in a while. I don't defend the interests of employers or employees, I defend common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u21	Thank you. That was the last point of fact so far. Now duly signed up for the debate, Mr Vladislav Vilímec. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u22	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, we have said a lot here. I did not comment on this law at the House plenary, but as a member of the Social Policy Committee, I also asked some questions to the petitioner's representatives, Mr Bublan, and those answers simply did not convince me. Why is it that only seven holidays are proposed when we have more public holidays? Why is it proposed to sell 200 square meters? That wasn't answered either. I confess that the arguments why to adopt this law, whether in the form approved by the Chamber of Deputies or even in the enlarged Senate, did not convince me in any way. The Senate that proposed this law, and if I am not mistaken, its amendment is actually identical to the original Senate proposal, wanted to limit the freedom to determine the selling time of large chains. So be it. However, he did so in a not very legislative way. I've already mentioned that the 200 square meter sales area lacks some strong arguments. Moreover, it is well known and we all know that today's shopping centers rent sales points to individual traders, to individual tenants, and so it is not easy to close the shopping center anyway. It is constantly argued here, it has not yet been said here today that such restrictions not only on holidays, but also on Sundays also apply in some EU countries. I said, "So what? In Bavaria, and I also mentioned this on the Committee on Social Policy, especially in the countryside, on Sundays, the whole village goes to church slowly. There is no such measure of practicing believers in our country, and I don't think so in Moravia. So let us not try to impose on people how they should spend Sundays or holidays, whether they should spend them in shopping centres, in nature or in the television screen. In addition, shopping centres continue to grow, which prepare a variety of cultural offers at least on Sundays and holidays. How valuable, I don't want to discuss here. There is also a ubiquitous argument of employee protection. First of all, in my opinion, the state has other and, in my opinion, sufficient options to control compliance with labour law, even in large chains, and thus to protect workers. There are employees who, on the contrary, are willing to work on Sundays and holidays, and there are certainly those who do not want to work on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. We should understand that too. But shopping centres are not the only places where we see employees on holidays. After all, restaurants are open, but other public services cannot stop working, there must also be employees on Sundays and holidays. The Senate proposed a list of seven holidays where sales at stores with a sales area exceeding 200 square metres would be prohibited. As you well know, the Chamber of Deputies reduced this list only to January 1 and Christmas holidays, when many chains are already closed today because people simply do not go shopping there. The strings were decided regardless of any law, after all he remembered even Mr. Senator Kratochvíle. Once again, the Senate insists on its original proposal. This Senate proposal is rejected, and Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, a Member of the Chamber of Commerce, has already spoken about it, clearly disagreeing with the principle of regulation of selling time in general. Personally, I will not support either of these proposals, although the parliamentary version is much closer to the current reality. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u23	I thank Mr Vilímc. Now, factual remarks. First, Mr Stanjura, if he's interested? After that, Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u24	It's already 17 o'clock, we have an important briefing on the laws we've put in for tomorrow afternoon, that's the EIA, and we have it in the '90s, and we're going to deal with the opposition with the government coalition about whether or not the bill will pass in its proposed form. So I have a request to let the debate run, but if this meeting is not ready, then we will interrupt the meeting before the vote before the end of the EIA meeting, because we want to take part in the vote. So, Mr President, we'll be back, and if we don't and all the contributions are exhausted, I'll ask you to interrupt the meeting until we get back from the meeting. I'm assuming it's going to be quite fast. I'm guessing ten, fifteen minutes tops. But in case this goes on, please allow us all to take part in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u25	Yes, I'll try to tell my successor in the proceedings. With a factual remark, Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u26	Thank you. We're having a bit of a rough time tonight. I would like to propose a procedural proposal to interrupt this point for 15 minutes, which means within 17 hours 15 minutes, for the reasons set out here by colleague Stanjura. Don't be mad at me, I don't want to act under pressure, then come here. In the event that this hearing goes on, please let those who are logged in speak, and we will perhaps come here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u27	This is a procedural proposal that you want to put to the vote. Yes. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. We will vote on the suspension of this point within 17 hours of 15 minutes due to a meeting with the EIA. I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. Initiating vote on suspension of this item within 17 hours 15 minutes due to a meeting with the EIA. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's the 29th vote. 126 Members and Members are registered, for 46, versus 39. The motion was not accepted. With priority rights, Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u28	So thank you for showing me how you behave. If 15 minutes isn't enough for you and Minister Brabc to make arrangements so that there won't be a caramel on Wednesday, don't be mad at me, but you're really overreacting. I'll go across the street. You're being very embarrassed. And I'm taking a 15-minute break on behalf of Club TOP 09. And shame on you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u29	There's a request for a break, so we'll continue at 17.16. I'm interrupting the House meeting in 17 hours, 16 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u30	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue with the adjourned negotiations. Mr. Vilímec has already presented his discussion paper. Mr Karamazov will now prepare Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u31	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, it is scary how fierce the government wants to cut people's freedoms. I remember -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u32	I will interrupt you and ask my fellow Members to remain calm in the Chamber so that you can make your contribution in a dignified environment, from left to right on Wednesday. Indeed, who is discussing something other than retail time, please in the foyer. May I ask, fellow Members? Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u33	I remember a few months ago, in the House, common sense won when Members modified the amendment by the Act on restrictions on selling time in shops. The new legislation thus applied only for a few days a year, when the shops are already closed anyway. There was another completely useless law, but it's still better when a law becomes useless than a bad law. Unfortunately, the Senate did not appear as a guardian of freedom this time, he returned to the original text, which the lower chamber rejected. The government coalition, unlearned by the last debate, is again about to impose another unnecessary ban. When will this storm stop? History teaches us - never. We will be so long as to subtly limit the possibilities of people's actions until we find that there is nothing left of freedom at all. That's a socialism we all know so well. This is not about protecting workers, as some are trying to argue. It is about forcing everyone else to see a certain world and a certain way of acting in private life. The state is thus irrefutablely breaking into a sphere that should have remained reserved forever for the individual's personal decision. The advocates of the new restriction argue the rights of the employees and, at the same time, the fact that the employment contract is concluded by free people who define their own terms. A labor code protects both sides from arbitraryness. The relationship between employees and employers therefore does not need to be adjusted differently. To name, prohibit and punish acts that threaten others - that is the role of the state. Only in such a community is freedom, freedom of every thought and action that does not deny others the freedom to think and act freely. How many different legislatures around the world have already adopted laws that pass this sensitive boundary? I therefore ask this question: In what way are open trades threatening others on some public holidays? How do they usurp their freedom? We must answer, of course, that none. Let us therefore focus our attention on topics that really tend to grow into problems that threaten people's safety, health and freedom. Let each person have his own personal life and days off. I therefore appeal once again to the common sense of all Members present, so that they do not prohibit people from selling and shopping, going to work and doing business. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u34	I thank Mr Simeon Karamaz. Mr Michal Kučera, who has so far been last enrolled in the debate, will now be speaking. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u35	Hello again. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, on this subject, on the subject of selling time in retail and wholesale, there have been hours and hours of discussion. I'm not going to repeat things that have been said here many times. Perhaps I would just remind some of them briefly, or rather respond to some of my previous speakers. I would like to point out clearly that the question of workers' protection must be addressed primarily by the labour code, by the collective agreement, by the trade unions. That's what the instruments are for. Any entry of special laws into special groups brings only uncertainty and brings only some distortion of the market. Then we can clearly ask why one does, the other doesn't, why you do, and those don't, just as we ask why the limit applies to 200 square meters. We never got an answer to that question. My fellow professor, who said, tried to answer because we have ten fingers on our hands. If we had six, it would be 240 square meters. [[17.20 hours]] Of course, there's still a question. To this day, it hasn't been answered how the little establishments that are part of the hypercrimes are gonna be, that is, the little florists, the little newsrooms, the little stores that sell their products there. Those questions, although they have been raised here many times, have never been answered by the petitioners. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to another matter. In recent days, there has been a debate on restrictions, on regulation, on bureaucracy, on non-freedom, and criticism is directed to the European Union. And sometimes even legitimately. There are even challenges to improve the conditions in the European Union, towards the European Union, to change the regulation, the restriction, the non-freedom, discrimination, someone even using the word slavery. I dare remind myself of some points. Of course, we have a restriction on selling time here today. But I'd like to remind you of Internet censorship. I would like to recall the mandatory last year at kindergarten, I would like to recall the national register of paid health services, I would like to remind you of the deployment of spatial monitors by the police, I would like to recall the preparation of the crime of tax cuts, criminal liability of legal persons, the control of the public media, the central register of bank accounts, the register of athletes, clubs and coaches, the law on the promotion of the origin of property, the breach of house freedom due to heating, the breach of home freedom for weapons, the penalty for insulting the official and the VAT inspection report. These are all the laws that the government of YES, CSSD and KDU-ČSL brought here. We're here to limit ourselves to our own space, to regulate ourselves, to bring bureaucracy to ourselves. Of course, we can argue here that everything has been democratically approved and democratically agreed by our Parliament. Yes, it was. And, of course, I have no choice but to accept these laws as democratically voted. But please, all of you who voted in favour of this, never point your finger at the European Union again, because you yourself have contributed to taking that piece of national freedom here. And this is the other law that contributes to that. Absolutely pointless sales time law in retail and wholesale. We add restrictions, regulation with this piece, and completely unnecessary deformation of our space. Just a conclusion. The TOP 09 will not support either the Senate proposal or the proposal that will probably be voted afterwards, which means the parliamentary proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u36	I thank Mr Michal Kučer. Another factual point by Mr Petr Kudela, before that by Petr Bendl and the proper application by Mr Jaroslav Zavadil. Now, Mr Petr Bendl, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u37	Thank you for the floor. I hope those two minutes are enough for me. Mr. Senator here spoke for the representative of the senator of the Senate proposal that it also applies to used goods bazaars. So I wanted to ask where it was in the law, because I didn't find it anywhere. This applies only to stores with a sales area above 200 square metres. And if he has a bazaar with used goods over 200 square meters, of course, that's what it's all about. I am deeply convinced that the law is discriminatory. In fact, in the finals, they will stand up against the people themselves, because, as it has been said here, they want to prevent people from spending holiday time in shopping centers, I just want to point out that in those shopping centers, there aren't just grocery stores nowadays, but there are a number of other activities that, whether they're different bowling and children's centers, and so on, is the question of what it's going to look like. If you want to regulate it, so the food will be closed and bowling, if it's small, one-way and it's within 200 meters, or if it doesn't involve selling something there and so on. In short, I think it's a law that's completely meaningless. We're not supposed to limit and decide what people are supposed to do at the holidays. They make their own decisions, and if people don't come in, they're gonna shut themselves down. After all, you said it here on Christmas holidays or New Year's Eve. These people just don't go in there, and that's why the shops are closed. That's how the smaller people earn, the people stand in line, 'cause maybe they can't do it from work other than take advantage of the opening hours of big business. More or less, the profits just spill out somewhere else. [[Attention on time.]] It's a useless socialist experiment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u38	Thank you. We will continue with the factual remark made by Mr Petr Kudela. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u39	Mr President, members of the government, gentlemen, I was here last time with the profits of large retail companies such as Tesco, Bill and so on. It's profits in billions a year. I'm happy for them. All honor, he's got it. However, constantly hiding behind economic growth and development - I think there are other, higher principles than just hiding behind economic growth. I believe that small regulation in this segment has been required by this market, and this small regulation is indeed appropriate. It is only a few days a year when the sale will be prohibited in large-scale retail over 200 m2. These businesses will not be in any danger, it will be good for the company. I'm leaning towards the Senate version of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u40	I thank Mr Kudel for his time on the point of fact. One more point in fact before my colleague Zavadil, Mr Ivan Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Just to be clear. Those who have been criticized here for making huge profits are also employing tens of thousands of people, and that needs to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u42	Thank you. And now Mr Jaroslav Zavadil's proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u43	Thank you, Mr. Control, and once again I greet you all from this counter. You know, it's like a copycat. We've been through this debate a couple of times. I'm not surprised at anything about her. Only one thing, perhaps. The proposal wasn't for us to keep people from going to department stores. That was because the abuse of those employees that are there is enormous. It says here they're getting money for it - I'm sorry. [[The speaker's cell phone is ringing.]] They don't get much money for it. They're getting a spare leave for this. Perhaps it is the error of the Labour Code, which prefers the employer to agree with the employee first on a replacement leave. But they're pushing them to do it! [[The MP raises his voice.]] That's what I'm saying. So it's not about the money. It's not that they want money because they don't. Ivan, I really appreciate you, through Mr President - social engineering, but that's completely stupid. [[to Mr Pilný]] That's not the point. It's really just a matter of meeting this group of people who are in their own way - and now I don't want to use the expression sticking to my floor - I'm gonna use some more diplomatic expression - who are just forced to go on leave for the holidays. And don't twist my mind, that's right, go ask them! [[Turns into the hall]] So that's the reason that actually led everyone to take care of this proposal to come with him. And, of course, the debate, and it's legitimate that someone here disagrees that someone has that opinion and someone who thinks that way - I admit it, this debate. Oh, please, let's just focus on the matter. Nobody here wants and doesn't want to restrict citizens by this law that they can't buy. On the other hand, there were arguments that in Austria, Germany, France, Belgium this is common. And that's what it is. And now I don't want to lean on what's going on in these countries. I don't want to. But nevertheless, I have to turn to it a little bit. Nobody's talked about Sundays, because there's been a lot of talk - you want Sundays too. No, nobody wants Sundays. So I'd just like to appeal to weigh our words. And I know I just spoke a little emotional. But again, I'm fine with no debate, which is that someone disagrees with this for different reasons, but let's not attack those who think otherwise. And let's not say they're socialists, even if they're socialists - and I don't mind, I'm not ashamed. [[Laugh from the right side of the hall.]] Oh, no, there's no need to laugh about it. So let's talk about things openly, on a fair note. I've always been fair. You all know that. And I've even talked to many of you about this standard, and many of you have told me, and I'm not going to name those people, yes, we wouldn't have a problem with that, but we would have a problem with that at the club. Now, that's the end of the quote. So I'd just love it if we didn't get into the controversy of personal attacks. I don't want to - I'm sorry, Ivan, but I had to say that. Because social engineering is unacceptable to me. And this isn't social engineering. It's really about those people over there. So I just want to conclude by calling on you to support what you think is right and not to develop the debates here anymore. There's plenty of time. I think everything has been said, and it should be heading for the vote by now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u44	I thank Mr Jaroslav Zavadil. But I will not comply with him because I have four factual points and one proper application for my colleague Bendl's debate. But in front of my colleague Bendl in this order will be factual remarks by Karel Fiedler, Miroslav Kalousek, Ivan Adamec and Ivan Pilný. Now, colleague Fiedler, a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u45	Thank you for the floor. I'll try to walk in those two minutes. I will respond to Mr Zavadil's colleague as well as other previous speakers. My colleague Michal Kučera put it very well here, a number of these things. But after all, I think this is a different matter here. We're still enchanting some kind of profit mantra here. There's been talk of these big chains, I don't want to name them on purpose. But my colleague published today information on that 214 billion. shall be exported annually from that Republic on dividends. I'm not saying it's just these markets and these chains, but I guess I won't be far from the truth when I say they're one of them. We know what we have online, and it's reality. That the same chains in our country pay less wages than in their mother countries, and the prices of products are often lower than they are in our country. They're taller with us. Something's not right here. That kind of self-regulation doesn't really work. Sometimes they just have to get involved in some way. And the arguments that come out here. I'd take it if we were talking about wanting to do it like we do in Greece, that every Sunday is closed. But that's not what we're dealing with here. We're dealing with basically five days here, and maybe the three of them are almost alone, and I would agree with that, a petty thing, if, on the other hand, we should show some respect for the fact that we're having a real holiday day. And you all know I'm not a Christian. So when you, colleagues, decide how you will vote, consider these matters as well. Once again, many of these firms in their mother countries pay higher wages and have lower prices for these products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u46	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Miroslav Kalousek, also with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u47	Thank you for the floor. Only two perhaps unnecessary comments on the discussion that is taking place. We're always terrified of how many dividends for our owners are leaving companies that foreign investors have started or bought here. And we're always cheering about how much foreign investment comes here. Much more foreign investment is coming here than dividends are leaving. So, on the one hand, to complain that the owner is taking his dividend and, on the other hand, to take for granted that someone else here from somewhere else is investing funds, it's a little, I'd say, very short-sighted. First of all. Secondly, you have been invited, Mr Pilný, through Mr President, to take the floor. I'm in. Really, weigh your words. You're old-school and naively old-fashioned to remind us that these companies are employing our citizens here instead of understanding in the spirit of the government's ongoing discussion that they don't employ, that they exploit. You have to go with the times.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u48	Thank you for keeping the time on the factual remark made by Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Another is Mr Ivan Adamec, also with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u49	Yes, thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Zavadil tells us to stop talking and let's do this. Well, I don't quite think so. When he was talking about how employees are being treated in these chains or stores, it kind of amused me like a unionist, a union boss, that's what he's saying here, that he wants to deal with it by putting the junk away for a while. I think it's about collective bargaining on those terms. I think that's where the union should fight for these employees and not deal with it by restricting working hours. By the way, I would like to know, and I am asking through Mr President here, from Mr Kudela, to give me the higher principles. I'd be very interested in those. And if there's anything, I think it's social engineering, it's a reference to some higher principles. So that's what I'm saying, that's how I personally see it. And as for how it's going. It's gonna start for seven days or three days, then it's gonna come in handy for ten days, then 15, then every Sunday, then every Saturday, and then all of a sudden we're gonna end up like we're gonna have to shop on Friday, 'cause we're gonna starve to death on the weekend. I remember that time, I didn't like it at all, and I wouldn't want it like this, and I wouldn't want it like this. By the way, I've noticed one thing today that, at first sight, doesn't have much to do with this problem, and it's a registration of gay couples. That's when I remember in the Senate when they convinced us that it was the last thing they wanted, that they wanted to register, that they had property rights, inheritances, and these things, and that there was no way they were going to ask for adoption of children, because it wasn't completely, I would say, in line with what the social mood was. Today's judgment of the Constitutional Court said they could. So this is how it ends with the markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u50	I thank Mr Ivan Adamc. Another factual point by Mr Ivan Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm gonna look at the tapestry, but I've always spoken only in material and content, I didn't sew on anybody's socialist sticker. As far as social engineering is concerned, unfortunately, it is not only reserved for socialists, there have already been people with similar approaches, so it is not really a matter of any political party or jurisdiction, it is a matter of opinion. But I'd stick to logic. If we close business by law, we won't say we're not restricting anyone. We're limiting hundreds of thousands of people who've been shopping there until now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u52	I thank Mr Ivan Pilný. Now, once again, Mr Fiedler, with a factual remark, and then Mr Petr Bendl, who is duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u53	I'll try to be even more brief. Let us really realize that this is three or five days, not every Sunday, and that in my opinion, you don't have to agree with me, it will not show in some way. One drinks the milk exactly the same if it is open five days less or more because it has the same consumption. For example. But why did I volunteer? I don't want to waste my time, but I will respond to my colleague Kalousek. The dividends. I remember that you yourself gave the example of Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš Agrofert, how he elegantly escaped from some profit taxation through dividends. These dividends are always the same, whether they're Agroferta or whether they're other companies. But I think I agree with my colleague Zavadil. Everyone's already said theirs, we all know how we're gonna vote, let's vote fast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u54	Thank you, Mr Member, because there is one more point in fact by Mr Miroslav Kalousek. And I ask the House for peace. Thank you. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u55	I would not like the tax optimization of Agrofert here to be shifted to other planes, i.e. it was not through dividends, but through koruna bonds. It was legal, but it wasn't moral.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u56	Thank you. And now, Mr Petr Bendl in a proper application, so far the last one entered into the debate. I believe that we will be able to end the debate and vote. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u57	Thank you, I didn't make it before, so at least I'm gonna finish it now. What Mr Pilný said here is right. All we have to do is stress the fact that we're just limiting someone, we're telling someone not according to eye color or skin color, but depending on how many square meters they're currently serving, so if it's up to 200 square meters, it's okay, and if it's over 200 square meters, it's okay, it's gonna have to be closed in the days that the Chamber of Deputies invents. That is quite safe, according to my deep conviction, discriminatory. It has nothing to do with wages in a similar business abroad, that has nothing to do with it. And to think that maybe the pay will be higher when we say to some businesses: you'll be closed on the days we make up - today it may be seven days, tomorrow maybe nine, because we have the precedent here, that's what Ivan Adamec said here, that's the salami method. We can break that principle, and today it's seven, tomorrow it's fourteen. It's gonna be a holiday tonight, and tomorrow, a fellow Member will Zavadil and say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We Middle Bohemia will say: Well, we have bad luck because tens of thousands of Central Bohemia arrive in Prague to work and work and in the morning we go when classic shops are closed, and we arrive when classic shops are closed, so mostly only the bigger ones are open, where there is still a chance to buy them. At the moment when we begin to liquidate the business sector in this way with the salami method, we will limit, as Mr Pilnýý here rightly said, a number of shoppers. It just is. I know a few people who, on the other hand, say, I have at least double on the holiday, or I get some extra wage, and I like to make that time because I get more money. Normally, the salaries aren't too low, I'm just gonna get an extra on the holiday. That's what's happening. Someone might say, "But they're gonna give him a spare day or something." Of course, someone does, and someone doesn't, that depends on their free decision. It is undoubtedly true that this is about employees and employment. I just want to remind you that the moment we start with this restriction, we're going to increase the pressure on online shopping. In a minute, we might not even need those stone shops. After all, the Chamber of Deputies can contribute to this, and we will start closing them down slowly. Well, that's how it starts quietly, it doesn't almost look like it now, but somebody here at second or third reading said we're strengthening the chance to buy online, that we're not actually gonna need any more salesmen, they're gonna be free. After all, the government supported, I don't want to name the company, one of the largest online shops and businesses in the market with huge warehouses. Then why small stone shops? I mean, if we have big warehouses, it's enough to serve a few people, people will be very happy that they won't have to sell anymore, and they won't have to go to work. There'll only be a few warehouse workers. You order what you need on the Internet at home, and then we're all gonna say, "We have to give them welfare because they don't have a job." That's how we're going to cycle, and my colleague Zavadil here is going to say, "But we need to think about these people." So if they don't have a job, poor people, what are we supposed to do? But that, gradually, in this way, we're going to push out the stone shops and the big business, no. And they're gonna close for the holidays now, so they're gonna close. Okay, well, somebody would rather have milk that's canned, somebody would rather have milk fresh. That's an easy way of putting it. And it doesn't have to be completely frozen from Poland, it could be what the local baker does, and now there's more and more of them arguing with the wholesaler that they're delivering fresh pastries. When they close, you're gonna have to buy it a day early, so it's okay, it's gonna be a little tougher, but we're gonna have to get used to it, because the longer you're here, the more unnecessary laws I think we're gonna produce - and paradoxically we're gonna go against these people so they don't get the job and we have to give them the welfare benefits.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u58	I thank Mr Petr Bendl. One more application - with priority rights Mr Mihola as Chairman of the KDU-ČSL Club. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly, as I promised the President of the House. KDU-ČSL will support this proposal, although I might have a number of critical reservations about the Senate proposal, as I had previously. And I'm a little disappointed that there was a chance to work it out a little bit, and actually there's the same proposal that came to the House in March 2014. My idea would be different. But I'm positive. It's a chance or a challenge to make a novel sometime. It may not only make the ladies at the gallery, but others involved will be happy. But then it is now essential that what is presented passes. And I just really need to shake my head over what was said here in half-truths, nonsense and haunting. I beg you, if all this were the way it was said here, the life of the neighbors, I mean in Austria, Germany, it would have to stop, it would have to be some absolute disaster, we would have to raise our hands victoriously here. My colleague Pilný and I have already explained some things with Mrs Jílková in You have the floor, but it seems that we need to go to Mrs Jílková two to explain it again. No, he's saying no, he's giving up. So if it worked so hard that those open supermarkets and hypermarkets are so driven by the economy, we didn't just catch up with those Western states long ago, but they overtake the quarter century, what we have far more and almost without borders open, and that's where they regulate it. brát's take this positive, it's a cultivation proposal. Let's not use such terms as a ban. Please, why isn't someone here upset that he wants to see a doctor on Saturday, Sunday, that he has the right to do it right now, and just like on a weekday? All he's got is an E.R. at his disposal. Right. Why doesn't he drive on Sundays and Saturdays when we're comparing it like this? So I really think that many of the arguments here were very unfair. We should think of those involved, those salesmen and salesmen who often, instead of those chimeric supplements, only receive a spare leave or a substitute that is not worth talking about. And social engineering was mentioned here. As I say, I would like to have as much market as it is in those Western countries that we suddenly don't know each other, like Germany and Austria, and which we have historically and culturally, with which we are most connected, so I'm willing to say that I would like to be a social engineer like Baťa or more of these outstanding personalities, because he was in this sense, as it was said here, a social engineer who thought of his employees and their happy lives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u60	I thank Mr Mihol. That was the last one entered into the debate. Unfortunately, I see two more factual points - Mr Fiedler and a colleague. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u61	I think President Mihola has set a fine example, which I very much liked. Then we should want to go to the authorities on Saturdays, Sundays, doctors, we should want PPL to deliver packages on Saturdays, Sundays, we could still have a long discussion here. It is a pity that our predecessors here in this Chamber of Deputies did not stand up for the business of small Czech companies at a time when they entered the great megastrings that destroyed them. That's too bad. We could have had more employment. Maybe we wouldn't have to deal with the problem with the working hours or the working hours, because it worked out a whole different way back then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u62	Thank you. Now a colleague of Mr Šrámek with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u63	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Jiří Mihola's performance cannot be undone. Please, this law is discriminatory. Let me say once again, this social engineering is not about social engineering - it has Zavadil Mr Zahado here. That's what engineering is all about. The engineering is that we tell one person to shut down, we tell the other to keep it open. Those who have a 180-meter trade will be able to sell. Those with 220 can't. Those who have a shop will be closed. Those who make something, or the different montages, they'll be working again. It's not that you think of employees or employers. The law is just discriminatory. So let's do it for everyone or for no one. Otherwise, there's no point. It's gonna go around. Business is gonna get smaller. They're going to split in half, in thirds. It's just absolute nonsense. So let's give it to everyone to be social, and I'll raise my hand for it, or no one, and of course I'll raise my hand for it. This is discriminatory from all sides. I will vote against the amendment and against the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u64	Thank you. Another factual point by Mr František Laudát. I'll try to keep you calm, Mr. Ambassador. Please keep it down. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u65	Thank you. I just want to say that, under the weight of my colleague Mihola's irrefutable arguments, I have been reading into some statistics and some issues in very regulated France over the past few months. That's where they invented sales regulation many, many years ago. And I can tell you that people force themselves -- force each other -- with the course of time, just to open these stores, it somehow breaks down on a fairly mass scale, it goes around. And that's exactly what we don't want - to set up a system that then forces people to go around. And it was already coming from my previous speaker - I'm signing it - that you selectively ripped out only one group of shops within a kind of populism. And the criterion is the dimension. Don't be mad at me like this is what people want. And people prefer hypermarkets, supermarkets, or just big stores for some time and time reasons. It's not about these. You guys are headed for some, I don't know, gardeners or something. It's not that much that you think... You haven't thought of the consequences of the law. And put yourself in the role of you renting some space in such a big store, putting a few million investment in it, and now someone orders you without knowing the thing, that all of a sudden, day-to-day, it ends for you. You've adopted many of these laws here. I'm warning you about this. Let people live, let them do business. And who wants to work in a store like this, get them to work there. There's a surplus of jobs today, an offer in relation to demand, so please let people decide their own lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-003-001.u66	Thank you for keeping time with my colleague František Laudát's point of fact. If no one signs up for debate, I am done with the debate. [[Noise in the hall.]] We will proceed to the vote. Is the rapporteur interested or the plaintiff interested in the final word? It's not like that. We can therefore vote in accordance with Section 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I'll check you all out. I'm going to ask you for a new registration to find out the current situation in the Chamber of Deputies. I note that the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed in order to adopt the following resolution. Once the number of applicants has settled, we will decide in the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the draft Sales Time Act in retail and wholesale, according to House Press 275/6, as approved by the Senate, according to House Press 275/7'. I started voting number 30. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 30, from 154 in favour of 89, against 60. The motion was accepted. [[A round of applause for KDU-ČSL, ČSSD and KSČM Members.]] I note that we have adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. Thank you, senators, thank you, of course, and the rapporteurs, and I finish point one. [[18.00 hours]] We will continue on the agenda, and that is another motion rejected by the Senate. It's about
