ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u1	4. Government bill amending Act No. 218/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules and on the amendment of certain related laws (budgetary rules), as amended, and some other laws /house print 546/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, this bill will be presented by the Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly introduce the draft amendment to the budgetary rules. In particular, the draft law presented contains provisions extending the list of Treasury entities and the provisions relating to this extension. An adjustment is also proposed to receive loans from international financial institutions, in particular from the European Investment Bank and the Development Bank of the Council of Europe by the Ministry of Finance for the Czech Republic. It is also proposed to shorten the transitional period for the transfer of State contribution funds to accounts subordinate to the Treasury by 15 months. The proposed amendment to the budgetary rules also contains some other changes, such as the cancellation of the obligation to settle the subsidy in full for the reimbursement of expenditure and, where appropriate, the costs which the beneficiary has paid from its own resources before it is granted. All accounts subordinate to the Treasury are to be held by state organisations, the Railway Infrastructure Administration, health insurance companies and associations of health insurance companies according to the proposals, subjecting these accounts to the Treasury in principle within nine months of the entry into force of the Act. A change of the Act on the General Health Insurance Company of the Czech Republic is also proposed in connection with the submission of the accounts of health insurance companies to the Treasury and the amendment of the Act on Departmental, Corporate and Other Health Insurance Facilities. The proposal also contains an amendment to the Act on the State Agricultural Intervention Fund. It is essential to establish the obligation to settle certain subsidies granted to this fund from the state budget. The Ministry of Finance expects the proposed submission of the above-mentioned accounts to the Treasury to centralise additional at least 28 billion. CZK of free liquidity arising from public funds, which would represent an annual savings on the interest costs of state debt in a row of hundreds of millions to billions depending on the evolution of government bond yields of the Czech Republic and the situation on global financial markets. The draft law was discussed in committees. The Guarantee Committee is the Budget Committee, and its proposed amendments are agreed by the Ministry of Finance. The Health Committee also commented on the proposal. On the contrary, the Ministry of Finance does not identify with most of his amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantee and the press was also ordered by the Committee on Health. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as House Press 546/1 to 3. I now ask the rapporteur of the budget committee, Mr Roman Kubíček, to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the resolution of the budget committee of the 32nd meeting of 18 November 2015 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 218/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules and amending certain related laws, budgetary rules, as amended, and some other laws, House printing 546, second reading. Following the opening words of Deputy Minister of Finance Jan Gregor, the report by Mr Roman Kubíček and following the debate, the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies recommends, first, to the Chamber of Deputies, that the Government's bill amending Act No. 218/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules and amending certain related laws, budgetary rules, as amended, and some other laws, House press 546, approved the amendments proposed. Amendments are inserted into the system and are part of the resolution. I'm not gonna read them here. Secondly, it empowers the rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u5	I thank the rapporteur and I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mr Ludvík Hovorka, to take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the proposal in this committee and, if necessary, justify the amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u6	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you of the resolution of the Health Committee of the 26th meeting of 3 December 2015 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 218/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules and amending certain related laws, budgetary rules, as amended, and some other laws, House press 546. After the opening words of Deputy Minister of Finance for the Public Budget Section . First, Jan Gregor, my report and after the debate, the Committee on Health recommends the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to the Government's draft law, as amended, and some other laws, the House's press 546, as amended by the amendments adopted, which are inserted into the system and can be read. And she has instructed me as rapporteur to introduce you to this resolution. I hereby declare myself at the same time in the general debate to report on the reasons for the adoption of individual amendments, which may be slightly different from what the Committee on Budgets has adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u7	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate, which the rapporteur, Roman Kubíček, first came forward. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u8	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. I would like to mention the amendment that I have put into the system and to which I will sign up in the general debate, in a detailed debate. It's a small change. In Part One Amendment to the Budgetary Rules Act after point 13, point 14 is inserted as follows: "In Section 26, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (h) the following shall be inserted after the word referred to in Article 3 (o) (4) and the following points shall be numbered.' Justification: The A-head of the ROP, this is budgetary measures in the budgetary system, and the written application of the chapter cannot be processed separately. The budgetary system is the primary system for recording budgetary measures, but it does not replace the current circulation and approval of original documents in their written form. The approval of the original written document shall be supplemented by the corresponding activities in the budgetary system through the A-header of the ROP. According to Article 24 (2) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission has to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether the aid is compatible with the internal market. A written request for implementation of the budgetary measures may be submitted to the Ministry by 30 November of the current financial year at the latest. For these reasons, it is also necessary to apply this deadline to updating the data in the budgetary system, with the proposal to extend the provisions of Section 26 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (h) budgetary rules. I will sign up for this in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u9	I thank Mr Kubíček. Another duly registered member is Mr Vilímec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u10	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already drawn attention at first reading to the pitfalls of this proposal, particularly in relation to some other entities whose funds would be subordinated to the Treasury. In my view, the view of the Ministry of Finance, the view of the Ministry of Finance's employees as a very close professional view can be seen here in this case only in connection with the financing of the state debt. Of course, there will always be a natural tendency of the Ministry of Finance and a certain temptation to extend the Treasury to other public finance entities or entities dealing with public finances to a certain extent. The Ministry of Finance also allows it to be used so called. foreign resources, which are directly State resources, outside the State budget to finance the short-term needs of state debt. You know, there's been a big debate here about the subjection of public entities or some entities to the Treasury in the last parliamentary term. The original proposal submitted by the government during the last parliamentary term also contained various public bodies, including even so-called. the own revenue of the local authorities. [[17.20 hours]] The debate, which was very rich at the time, has shown that it is appropriate to choose a compromise, because, in addition to the purely accounting view of the state official, we also have to accept a certain degree of autonomy between local authorities and, of course, other public bodies such as health insurance companies. What is beneficial for the Ministry of Finance can be disadvantageous or very complicated for these entities. A measure of reasonable access is necessary if we do not want to revive some pre-November practice with the Czechoslovak State Bank. I thought, until this proposal, that the debate had resulted in a sensible solution, with which they eventually agreed, someone more, someone less, all the actors in this discussion. Who did not agree to this then was the opposition. I have seen today, as the opposition parties voted in the last parliamentary term, as well as from the perspective of today's optics, a different composition of the government coalition, I must say that at that time a member of the government coalition - social democracy rejected all these proposals. One of those who voted against was President Sklenák. She did not even support the very compromise proposal that came back from the Senate, where the deadline for transferring funds to the Treasury at the contribution organisations extended. Nor did any of the social democracies then vote in favour. Otherwise, it was the House Press 660, so I'm sure any of those who were here in the past period can see how he voted. The minister said here in the opening exhibition that his aim was to speed up the obligation of the state's contribution organisations to transfer their funds under the Treasury by 15 months. This would be true if, in theory, the law came into force on January 1st, and if I count well, today is January 19th, I know it well because I had a holiday yesterday. So I'm sure she can't handle 15 months. After all, this also follows from some of the amendments. You know, in the case of public health insurance companies in particular, the situation is even more serious. I am not convinced that health insurance companies that manage funds that are also entrusted to them by self-employed persons should have their accounts under the Treasury. Such a change is, of course, disadvantageous for these insurance companies and, above all, completely disadvantageous for the insured. There's absolutely no doubt about it. koneckonců all, even in the explanatory memorandum, it says that the reduction of interest income will have a negative impact of approximately CZK 100 million. Even state budget subsidies do not completely compensate for this impact, despite the fact that serious obstacles to the use of certain banking instruments would actually arise. I would like to pause on one argument, which is also contained in the explanatory memorandum. The explanatory memorandum to the law states that the risk associated with the current situation - I am quoting now - is, above all, an increasing international criticism of inefficient management of public funds and delayed access to information that strongly reduces their usefulness in the operation. If we were in Greece, I would understand. But we are not in the situation of Greece, we are in a completely different situation, so hardly anyone can criticize us for any inefficient use of public funds. I find that an entirely absurd argument. So why is the Minister trying, or the Ministry of Finance, but first of all, the Minister, to subjugate other public entities under the Treasury? In fact, there was a proposal for them to be subordinate, and a very serious proposal for them to be subordinate to the public college Treasury or public research institution. There it even looked like it would pass, but then somehow within the framework of the external commentary procedure the proposals were withdrawn. After his arrival, especially last year, the Minister spoke of reducing the debt of the Czech Republic. Of course, in the case of reported government deficits, even this year, a deficit has been declared, so it can do so accountably. Either dissolution in the area of accumulated reserves that have been accumulated to a relatively large extent during the previous parliamentary term. He already did this last year when he dissolved these reserves. This year, he found that despite the use of the existing foreign funds, the Treasury could no longer completely reduce its state debt. The minister is shaking his head, but he should see how he's grown an absolute state debt last year. It grew by 9.3 billion crowns. Only the Minister, when I followed him at the press conference which led to the Treasury's implementation of the state budget, failed to mention this circumstance. I did not notice that the Minister boasted that last year the state debt had increased by 9.3 billion to CZK 673 billion. The Minister may squirm, but I'll show him in his own materials that I'm absolutely right. Of course, and now I do not want to take this very closely in connection with the forthcoming elections to the Chamber of Deputies next year, but also the Minister of Finance needs to expand the amount of funds with which he can benefit the so-called. Accounting debt cuts count so that he can boast next year that the government debt hasn't increased so much. I'm not going to analyze some things in detail here. I had quite a chance when I spoke at first reading that, whether the Committee on Budgets or the Committee on Health - I suggested that the Health Committee also discuss this - they would make certain changes in the heading and the list of mandatory entities that must be transferred under the Treasury. It turned out, in the case of the Committee on Budgets, that this was not the case. In principle, the Committee on Budgets left the Government's proposal in exactly the same spirit. I must say that the Health Committee has come up with at least some half-hearted solution, in my opinion. That is why I have nothing else to do, although I am neither a member of the Committee on Budgets nor the Committee on Health, to propose, in detailed reading, a permanent removal, of health insurance companies, not only the General Health Insurance Company, but also the other health insurance companies, from the obligation to transfer the funds under the Treasury. Likewise, leaving that term of transfer to the Treasury with the contribution organizations, because for some 12 months, because if I count well, if the government coalition were to vote this proposal without change, it could still be valid or effective from 1 April, then there is some nine-month period, so it will not be, Minister, 15 months, but a maximum of 12 months. And I don't think it's worth demonstrating the incalculability and irrationality of the state's progress on a live-stream basis. The only thing I don't have a problem with from the point of view of transferring funds to the Treasury is the subjection of the Railway Infrastructure Administration's accounts. There it is, I think, reasonable and there certainly will not suggest any change. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u11	I thank Mr Vilímc. Mr. Michal Kučera with priority rights now. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u12	Thank you for the floor. My previous speaker had already had a very exhausting - in the sense of informatively exhausting lecture. He said more or less everything that was supposed to come out. I would, therefore, just briefly inform you of the opinion of the TOP 09 and the starosta, who would, of course, be willing to support this amendment of the law, however, with one essential condition. And that's when that amendment will actually be removed from the accounts of health insurance companies to the Treasury. We fundamentally disagree with this change and if it is not removed from this proposal, i.e. If the amendment which my previous speaker was referring to fails, this amendment will not be supported by the TOP 09 and the starosta in the third reading of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u13	I thank Mr Kučer. Another duly registered member is Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to make a few comments on this bill on the Health Committee. The Health Committee tried to look at this proposal factually. We understand that it is an attempt to use the resources that are balances - say, daily balances on health insurance funds - to use them for preferential repayment of state debt payments. However, when discussing the view that health insurance companies manage state resources in the range of about one quarter and that they are therefore not State funds, but public funds and that, for various reasons, health insurance companies should not be subject to this rule of law. A total of six amendments were received from the Committee on Health. Given the speed of discussion, the position of legislation on the mutual non-voting of individual amendments, which partly overlapped, was not known in advance. The Committee on Health therefore voted on the individual amendments from 1 to 6 with the fact that none of the members of the Committee objected to the non-voting of the individual amendments. The resulting motion for a resolution contains several points, although some are unvoteable if others are adopted. In principle, the Committee on Health has been led by an effort to exempt health insurance companies from the scope of this Act on budgetary rules for the following reasons: The Committee sees a high risk in the possible decline in health insurance income and in the lack of preparation of the transition of the system from commercial banks to the Czech National Bank mainly for the following reasons: It is expected not to collect health insurance mainly for self-employed and individual payers related to the transfer of an account to the Czech National Bank, when part of the payments will definitely be sent to the original accounts for at least two to three years. The same applies to interest and periodic penalty payments, often up to ten years on the basis of the bill. Yes, it is. Someone's been paying off ten years of insurance and penalty payments. Possibility of the Ministry to set deadlines and scope of payment arrangements for healthcare providers. Doubts about the ability of the Czech National Bank to keep accounts with so many operations and the factual impossibility of paying orders on the day of submission. That was stated. According to Deputy Minister of Finance, however, the Czech National Bank will still do accounting operations with a third partner, i.e. probably with one of the commercial banks. The health insurance system manages public money. It is therefore not State resources. The state is only in the amount of about one quarter of the insurance premiums in the case of payments for state insured persons. Of course, the transfer of the account also involves unnecessary costs of changing the system and advertising campaign in connection with the change in the account, as well as the loss of interest from commercial banks, which are currently fulfilling the prevention fund for occupational health insurance companies. As my colleague said, it is about 100 million crowns a year. Given that it is a flow system, daily balances on health insurance accounts are not so high that the effect on the Treasury could offset the risk that an unprepared change will distort the functional health insurance system. In doing so, the possibility of helping the Treasury system from health insurance companies remains maintained in those amendments. For information only - the exclusion of health insurance companies from the scope of the law are key points of the health committee resolution 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12 and legislatively technical, including a shift in the effectiveness of the law. If these resolutions were not adopted, I believe that it is necessary to at least postpone the period of effectiveness and to adopt point 10 - the maintenance of existing accounts for at least three years, due to inertia, because a lot of payers will be sent to the original accounts. Point 1 - that is the exemption of the taxed activities of health insurance companies, and point 10 - that is the exclusion of the Ministry of Finance's option to set deadlines and scope of the payment scheme. At the same time, I think it is necessary to implement the pilot test project, which is mentioned in the explanatory report, which should have been tested with the General Health Insurance Company. I think without the testing, running the law would be a risk if the system worked. So much for my commentary. I just want to say that the amendments have been adopted by a cross-cutting majority of my fellow health committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u15	I thank the rapporteur, Mr Hovorka. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. Mr. Leoš Heger reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Let me add a few more words that haven't been said here yet. Our Constitution says that health care is provided through public health insurance, and that health insurance has so far had separate budgets from the state budget, although it must be recognised that these are public budgets. I think it would be quite legitimate in this country, although I would not be a fan of it, but it would certainly be legitimate to have a debate about whether we want our public health insurance system, which is based on the plurality of insurance companies, whether we want to transform it radically into a system with one health insurance company, such proposals have appeared in the past, although in some particular form they have never been submitted, or whether we even want to convert our system into a system that is financed from the budget. I'd consider that legitimate, too. There are countries that simply finance their health care budget from the state budget. They finance it very responsibly, the systems are stable and work very well when it comes to health quality. This includes a system in the UK in Europe and includes systems of Nordic countries based on the state budget. So nothing against it, even though our system has been operating here for almost 25 years, and unfortunately, it hasn't been properly tuned. Then the question is, is it not wiser to finally tune him out and not take the path of some great transformation, as it happened in 1991. The move proposed by the Ministry of Finance is undoubtedly aimed at some very radical change in the system, but the change was simply not discussed on this occasion, so it's a concern that, in addition to the budget questions of the Ministry of Finance, it's an attempt by the salami method to just start converting the system into a system that's going to be conducted by the state. This happened in a different form with the pension system, which thus became a pension insurance matter practically budgeted. And it can be speculated that this is what the Ministry of Finance is planning with our general health insurance system. [[17.40 hours]] One more thing I would like to add to that is that the public health insurance system, as set up, is very messy. Because it is partly based on the choice of insurance premiums from insured persons, mostly working citizens, and on the other hand there is an insignificant contribution from the State. The discussions that took place a long time ago on the Health Committee with representatives of the Ministry of Finance have shown that the effort of all these steps is to limit the cyclicality that has occurred and that we have witnessed in the economic crisis since 2008, say until 2013, when the state budget was weakened and unable to offset its tasks in health insurance, where it can be interpreted either by the State paying its 60 percent of state insured people, even if they are paid very sub-levelly, or by the State contributing simply solidly to the public health insurance system. But in any case, when it contributes, which makes it easy to justify why it pays half of what is paid from an average employee, the contribution is at a time when the system most needs the contribution, at a time of economic crisis - so the state is simply unable to ensure its support and smooth behaviour, smooth financial flows, and the system begins to fall. And if something caused the health sector to survive a fairly reasonable economic crisis without any human or patient tragedies or breakdown of the system, it was caused by the accumulation of certain profits in insurance companies from 2005 to 2007, and from that money in insurance accounts the system was essentially subjugated and survived. So it's a complex system that's probably a little different from how the state budget is going. Also thanks to our constitutional order and legislation, we do not have any restrictions on care in the system, so care providers are forced to provide care in the volume and quality as set up and as patients need it, and any deviations towards saving on this money from health care providers are very harshly criticised and often come to court as well. So all of these are arguments as to why the public health insurance system is not intended to move in a violent, improvised way, or at least move it without being preceded by a very clear discussion and a clear idea of the Ministry of Finance how the system should behave in the future and how it should evolve. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u17	I thank Mr Heger. This has been the last one entered into the general debate so far. Now with priority rights, the Minister. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u18	Thank you for the floor. I admire colleagues for how long they can talk about such simple things as that the money of health insurance companies in private commercial banks, which today, in a moment, may have to pay negative interest, and they pay bank charges, so we took the liberty of saying that they could be in the Treasury. In our Treasury. So I don't know why my colleague Heger is talking about health care. I don't want to talk about health care. I don't want to talk about how many insurance companies we need, maybe one, I don't know. So it's just about the money. And if the balances on the accounts are between 10 and 15 billion and it's with private commercial banks, and we're saying give it to the Treasury now, and we'll forgive the bank charges and give you zero, and you're close to zero, and maybe you'll have a minus, so it's trivial. I mean, that's what everybody understands, isn't it? And my colleague, Vilímec, I always enjoy it, that's a fact, that's an incredible debate. I'd just repeat the facts, Mr. Colleague. 31. 12. Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 May 2011 implementing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the placing of plant You're right, we've raised a little bit against 2014, but you know why? 'Cause it's still 30. We did the surgery on 12th that we borrowed with negative interest on which we made 3.5 million. Last year we worked with the money and made 540 million, 2014 - 240 million, in 2013 it was only a hundred. So we make money because money breeds money, at least who knows how to make money. And we've totally reduced the debt by 4 percent. From 41.3 to 37.3%, we have one of the smallest in Europe and we are proud of it. So now this works normally in some states. It's so-called cash pool. And that money belongs to the health insurance companies, they'll belong, except for the balances on the accounts we'd like to put in the Treasury, in the Treasury of all of us. There's zero and we'll forgive the bank charges. It's a good deal for them. And that's it. Minister Němeček knows this well, we discussed it, it is advantageous and it has nothing to do with health care or the number of insurance or health care. It is a purely pragmatic financial operation that will improve us, yes, improve our debt, improve our rating, and we will be a little better in Europe. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u19	Thank you, Minister. Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Soňa Marková. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u20	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, allow me to make a small remark. Unfortunately, I cannot agree with what the Minister has just said in the area of health of this law. I daren't judge the law. But there was a very serious discussion on the Health Committee, where we made clear arguments against what the Minister here is praising. Indeed, they are not - they are available from health insurance companies, not only from VZP, but from other health insurance companies as well as from the fact that this measure, which the Minister is defending here, will really seriously damage all health insurance companies, all health insurance companies, and it will be against the health sector, not the benefit of it. I am just pointing out that perhaps the Deputy Minister should have told him, because the Minister and everyone else on the Health Committee did not agree with this measure and do not take it as something in favour of the Czech health service. So here I dare say no. And it would be nice if the Ministry of Finance had analysed the impact it will have on health insurance companies, and thus on the public health insurance system, and thus on ensuring the necessary health care for patients of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u21	Thank you, Mrs Marková. With another factual remark, Mr Ivan Adamec. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak briefly. I listened carefully to the Minister, and I have to agree with him that commercial banks today, when you deposit money, it's not much. It is clear, I even feel that Erste, which means Česká spořitelna, even now wants money for saved money. It's not like we've been used to depositing money in a bank for years, that the bank pays you to use it. And what he said here was that the cash register is more or less advantageous, so I agree with it, but it should then be based on volunteering, and not legally determined to put it there. Then I'd understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u23	I thank Mr Adamc. Sorry, Minister, with the de facto remark of Mr Volný, followed by Mr Heger, after whom with priority rights the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u24	Okay. I, of course, agree with Mr. Speaker. Now, I want to respond a little bit to a colleague from the left spectrum. I really don't understand. After all, the money in that Treasury will be as safe, if not safer than any commercial bank, and it will have exactly the same principle of flow of funds, because the state is flowing with enormous resources and it is giving them away, and it is an entirely simple peasant move and a reflection not to accumulate lying money that doesn't work and pay the debt. So I really don't understand this discussion. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u25	Thank you, Mr Volný. With another factual remark, Mr Leoš Heger. After that, Mrs Marková, with a factual point. After her, the minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u26	Thank you. I would like to say through Mr President Mr Volný and the Minister that what I have said here is not an ideological speech, nor is it a debate about whether the state acts centralistically and wants to speak to those subjects, given by law, which are virtually separate from the state budget today. And I understand a few macroeconomics, but I understand what cash pool is because I was sitting in the city council where economists tried to optimize these things. The same thing happened at the hospital I was driving. So if it's technology, as you say, it's okay. But the debate on the Health Committee didn't lead to a clear statement by the Treasury that he would never touch the money in the direction that he would keep it. If it's like a deposit in a bank where the money will be returned and returned in time when the insurance company needs it, then, of course, it's just a technical operation like any other bank, and it can be agreed with. But it would need to be quite clear here for a stenographic record when something else happens one day, which many people in the Health Committee have suspected, so that we have something to turn to and defend the health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u27	I thank Mr Heger. With another factual remark, Mrs Marková. After that, Mr Hovorka, with a factual remark. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u28	Thank you for the floor. Through you, Mr Vice-President, to Mr Volný. You really don't know what it's about, because otherwise you wouldn't be able to say what you're saying. You just don't know what's going on in the health sector. And I think the same thing about the Minister that he doesn't know. Indeed, this will have a major impact on the management of health insurance companies. There's no question about that. Okay, so if we do this, then in that case, if we approve this law, and then we can support it if the Minister here promises me that subsequently - because this is the first step towards having one health insurance company in the Czech Republic, because I would thank you publicly for it here, as I did in the Health Committee. I thank the Minister for this law, because if this passes, we can have one health insurance company here, and that's been in KSČM's program since 2005. So, Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u29	Thank you, Mrs Marková. With another point of fact, so far the last, Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Then the Minister. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u30	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am merely in a matter of fact. On the one hand, there is a profit to the state from the fact that the daily balances on health insurance accounts are in some amount and allow the repayment of the state debt and a better assessment of these funds than they currently are for health insurance companies, but on the other hand, there is the thing that has probably stopped the members of the health committee the most in that law, and that is precisely the possibility to set the date and scope of payments to health care providers. Because the law actually states that the Ministry of Finance can simply say when it will be paid, and I think that this is the key thing, just as the representative of the Ministry of Finance said openly that the system of the Czech National Bank in cooperation with the third partner, that is, with the other commercial bank, it will simply not be possible to pay as much as today's day-to-day accounts. That means there will be a delay in payments and there is the possibility of the Treasury saying that it will not be paid now, but will be paid later. You can really read that out of the law. I think that these were probably the biggest and most important reasons that led most members of the Health Committee to apply to those proposals for resolutions that were then adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u31	I thank Mr Hovorka. That was the last point of fact so far. Now with priority rights, Minister Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u32	I'll try it again for my colleague Marková. You said about 12 sentences, but I didn't understand what you said. Yes, it will have a dramatic impact. You know who? Well, to the C.E.O., not getting an invitation to the commercial bank's Christmas party and probably not getting that bottle of champagne for Christmas, 'cause we don't do parties as Treasury and send him that bottle. Yeah, that's what you do for vánoce. There's the parties, that's where we're going. So that's the only difference. This is the dramatic impact on Czech health care. Again, we want to replace commercial banks with a state bank. Our bank, we're here for the people, aren't we? We're all profiting from it. And we're offering an advantage: you're not paying fees, you've got zero interest on us, but there might be a minus somewhere. And it's the insurance money! They always will be. They always stay. So we're just saying, now we want to be the bank. And it'll help all of us for cash pool. It has no impact on health care, no impact on the number of health insurance companies, no patient. So it's not true, and all the invoices the insurance companies want to pay will be paid on time. So it's just about the money, please, so just focus on what I'm saying. This is how it is, please. That's how it is. It's normal in some states a long time ago. So it's just an operation where we offer better terms for insurance companies. And the money is theirs, we'll never own it, there's no reason. I hope I've explained that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u33	Thank you, Minister. With a point of fact, Mrs Soňa Marková. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u34	Dear Minister, even a hundred times repeated lies will not become truth and demagogy will remain demagogy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u35	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr Volný. After him with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u36	Colleagues, colleagues, those were strong words. Maybe I'd like to explain this in private someday. I just want to point out - it's not insurance money. It's the money of the people of this state. And if we're offering the option that the state can deal with the money of the people of this state to make half a billion and reduce the cost of service to state debt, then we have to do so. And it's half a billion again for those people, for the communities, where they're gonna need them. I mean, let's just take our wits into our hands. If Mrs. Marková has one reason to say that this is a lie, and she has one doubt that it will affect health care, let her be honest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u37	Thank you. There's a whirlwind of factual remarks. First of all, Mr Ivan Adamec, Mr Petr Bendl, Mrs Soňa Marková, followed by Mr Stanjura. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u38	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be shorter. I would like to say to Mr Volný that this is not an option, but it is an obligation imposed by law. That's what I'm asking here why it's an obligation. Well, why not? So we have some kind of banking market, and now we're creating an alternative state market. That was my question of why it's mandatory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u39	I thank Mr Adamc. With another factual remark, Mr Petr Bendl. Mrs Soňa Marková, Mr Jiří Skalický, will be ready after her. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u40	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to say something similar, ask my fellow Volný, what variants are there - through the President - what variants are there. There's no alternative. We are obliged that funds which do not belong to the State should be deposited with the State. That's a significant return not ten or fifteen years ago, but 30 years ago. It's a salami method. After all, we can also say that VAT is state resources at once, and because it is paid later on in taxes, it would be necessary for entrepreneurs to hold all their funds with the state. Well, cancel the commercial banks. That's exactly where you're going. After all, commercial banks provide other forms of handling the money. Something significant will come up. Legal entities shall have management boards, etc. etc. and may decide to offer them a financial instrument that will benefit them in the short term. At the same time, it's about money on the market. I mean, you're either economists or you're socialist planners, you just say, "All the money's here because it belongs to me, the state." It's for you, for the people, the money that goes around here. This is completely unbelievable!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u41	I thank Mr Bendl. With another factual remark by Mrs Soňa Marková. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u42	Thank you again. Now, for the last time, I'm not going to hold up this very important forum. Now, the truth has already been said here, because really, if there's bad business and we need money, it'll be at the expense of public health insurance. So that's money that's not a state that pays employees, employers, and others. So if you really need to smack a hole, it's gonna smack into public health insurance. Yes, it was true now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u43	Thank you, Mrs Marková. With another factual remark, Mr Jiří Skalický. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to ask you one question, which relates to the subject or issue under discussion and specifically to Section 34 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 6 where it says that the Ministry of Finance is essentially able to set deadlines and scope of the payment scheme for healthcare providers. Period. That's all. That's the law. Thus, if this were to pass, without any further restrictions, when the Ministry of Finance remembers, exaggeratedly speaking, it can determine to the competent health care provider the extent and in what terms the appropriate payment should be made. Which I would like to ask whether it is possible to interpret exactly how the Ministry of Finance interprets it, that I see there a fundamental risk that the management and financing of individual health establishments, whether state or private, can be influenced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u45	Thank you, honourable Member. That was so far... Sorry. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman. You will be the last to join the general debate so far. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u46	Thank you for the floor. So let me just remind you of the words that were said here: rather than a commercial bank or a commercial bank, rather than a state bank. That's just a short walk from it: than private businesses, so better state enterprises. Then some central planning committee could set prices, it's for people to make those prices better. Why do those who profit from it have so much profit? That's for people, too. And so on. You here - now my previous speaker quoted that the Ministry of Finance can determine the term of payment if I simplify it. All right. So the Treasury will determine that it will apply once every two months. I want to ask. The Czech National Bank will also provide those health service providers with bank loans operating to hold cash flow? Well, it won't. Because he can't. So we don't get the money from the state's decision. And they'll start cash flow at private companies. And that's the most expensive money. Contocous or short-term. Everyone knows that. Is that in favor of public health insurance? This proposal is legitimate on the sole condition that it asserts itself - we are strongly opposed, but it is a legitimate political view, some particularly left-wing politicians want to have one health insurance company, namely the state. If we had one state health insurance company, then we say it's wrong, but logically, the money will be in the Treasury system. [[unintelligible]] Therefore, when my colleague, Mr Vilímec, formulated the position of our club, he said that we had no problem with SŽDC as a state organization being subject to the Treasury. And that's not really a problem. The problem is the state wants to deal with funds that aren't his. It's not called state health insurance, it's a public health insurance system. And if you want to have a state opinion, please, it's a political opinion, I say mostly left-wing, so make a change to the law, put in one insurance company that's going to be state, and then you can use the Treasury system for the money. But try to remember that sentence once more, especially those who do not report to your left: than commercial banks, better state bank. I, as a right-wing politician, find that a sentence of concern to me. Because what difference does it make if I use it on banks, because the bank is a private business, yes, business like any other, legal. Legal. So it's not nearly the same as if we were saying: "Besides private businesses, there are better state enterprises." I don't think that once. I don't think a state bank is better than a commercial bank, but we had one. The state bank of Czechoslovakia was called, wasn't it? I think until 1990, before she split up. And I don't think state-owned enterprises work better than private enterprises. I don't think so. That is why I believe that when we get to the vote at the third reading, you will support the proposal made by Mr Vilímec, because we will clearly divide what is public health insurance and what is state money. And it's not the same.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u47	Thank you to President Stanjur. This has been the last one entered into the general debate so far. If no one else is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. The Minister wants the final word after all. Please, Minister, you have your final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u48	Thanks. I just want to say a few words to Mr. Stanjur. You know, I always said I'd run it as a company. So I run it like a company. That's why I made 540 million crowns last year. And we also borrowed 100 billion at negative interest. Yes. We're competing. Why couldn't the state prosper? Why should he just be like a milk cow that everybody milks? Well, now we're working. We're in competition. And we offer good conditions. Better. Why can't we? Where's it written? Why couldn't the state buy transparently? Why couldn't it work? Transparently. We're cutting taxes. We're reducing the debt. So I don't know why you're surprised.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u49	That was the Minister's final word. President Stanjura and Vice-President Kučera are now claiming priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u50	I'm not surprised. I don't know how you figured that out. I was just asking questions or commenting on what was said here. But I'm not surprised. But if what the Minister of Finance said was true: we will offer health insurance companies, for example, the opportunity to compete with health insurance companies, let the Czech National Bank enter the competition, and if she wins, we will not protest. So let's not say it's an offer. It's a imposed obligation on money that isn't state. But I agree that many benefit not only from state funds but also from European funds or from regional and municipal budgets. Let's cancel the subsidies. Let's cancel the subsidies. That'll save tens of billions a year. I really think that we should agree that the subsidies are wrong, and we should cancel because from the system itself, as they compete with each other in the village, everyone wants to fix the firehouse, only someone succeeds because they have a more colorful application or a better written request. Or municipalities compete at SFDI for cycling trails. I understand that. Good projects. But sometimes the dividing line of those who get... Let's cancel the subsidies. We'll save money. Alternatively, we can increase the proportion of municipalities. We'll spare the clerks. The ones who write the subsidies. Then those who evaluate subsidies. [[18.10 hours]] Then we'll save the officials at the financial offices who control the subsidies. Perhaps we could spare some officials at the UOHS. That's all the money we could save and use somewhere else. But let us not say, Minister, that we are giving the Czech National Bank the opportunity to enter the competition with health insurance companies. It's just not like that. We have an obligation to deposit the money there. It may happen that you don't, but some of your successors will say it in a few years, so the banks are already doing it, we have it with health insurance companies, so next time it's going to be hospital and business money. And it ends up having a real state bank, not a Czechoslovak bank, but a Czech bank, and we're all going to have to have mandatory accounts there. We'll connect it online with all the cards, with all the payments, and we'll know everything about the citizens. Not just the ones who do business, but each one of them. We're doing this for people. And we'll save some more.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u51	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now Vice-President Michal Kučera with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u52	Thank you for the floor. I've only been for a very short time. I would really recommend to the Minister of Finance that he verify what public money is and what state money is, what is the difference between them and how they are treated, who has the authority to deal with them and how to deal with them. That's, I think, a crucial point of view. And I think that's what he's mixed up with because... like a lot of other things. Of course, I'm not going to respond to that comment when he was talking about who was milking the state. Of course, who milks the state, we see this on the growing subsidies of Agrofert, which is the absolutely largest beneficiary of state subsidies. Maybe he was headed into his own ranks. I think that's the right self-criticism, because the one who milks the state is Minister Babiš and his Agrofert.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u53	I am sorry, but I cannot give you a factual point when I launch a detailed debate which I am now initiating, and I remind you that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Chalupa. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u54	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. The Minister of Finance here basically solves a problem you're not used to. The Minister of Finance is responsible for taxpayers' money. It is within the framework of the legislative standard. What are we discussing here? If you weren't used to what was going on in this state before when we came to the House, then we approach it in a different way, and it's not illegal, and the Minister of Finance is using that competence, and it's in favour of taxpayers and this country. What are we discussing here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u55	Thank you, Mr Chalupa. The rapporteur, Roman Kubíček, is another party to the detailed debate. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to sign up for the House document 3523, which is stored in the system, including the justification that I have presented here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u57	Thank you to the rapporteur. Another duly signed up for the detailed debate is Mr Vladislav Vilímec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u58	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up in response to my speech in the general debate on House document 3382. It is an amendment which, as I have announced, removes from the proposed obligation - not volunteering, but the obligation - to keep funds in accounts in the Czech National Bank, i.e. subordinate to the Treasury, General Health Insurance Company, other health insurance companies, associations of health insurance companies. The subject matter of the proposal is also the retention of the current deadline of the obligation to transfer your money to the Czech National Bank with state contribution organizations. Just let me have one notic for the discussion. If it were so advantageous, the offer of the State, the entities that can volunteer under the Treasury, these are the municipalities, they have already used it. Perhaps it would be good for the Finance Minister to find out how many municipalities out of the 6250 have made such a great offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u59	I thank Mr Vilímc. Another duly signed up for the detailed debate is Mr Rostislav Vyzula. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u60	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I would like to sign up for the amendment, which is listed in the system under number 3522. In fact, it rather addresses some of the problematic issues that have been addressed in the Health Committee. Firstly, this was mentioned here by Mr Hovorka, which was about the deadline and scope and the payment arrangements, which would be the first part of the amendment. This is point 19 of Section 34 of the opening decision. 6, where it is basically said that it is possible to change precisely the easing of payments, not today, and that the Ministry of Finance will not restrict the execution of payment orders, even in the sense of slowing the execution of funds outside the Treasury's aggregated accounts. Another, after much discussion, concerns the accounts, the transitional provision, the transitional period when the accounts of the Czech National Bank should be created. Originally the proposal was within 9 months, but health insurance companies from practice, here it has been said, state that some payers do not respect certain rules for a long time and do not change their accounts according to the requirement of the law, so from the original proposed 9 months, later 15 months my proposal extends this obligation to transfer accounts to the State Bank for a period of 24 months. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u61	I thank Mr Vyzula. Now with priority rights, President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u62	Thank you for the floor. I'm just at the service they're offering. So I don't know if any of you have any experience when your MP wants to pay in cash and needs to withdraw money from the bank, how complicated it is when it's at the Czech National Bank. I might want an answer on how many branches the Czech National Bank has, where you can go to the counter and collect money. And even those health insurance companies sometimes need cash. The comfort is much lower. And do we really want to build competition with commercial banks in the form of the Czech National Bank? Isn't the role of the Czech National Bank completely different from building internet banking, offering cards, ATM withdrawals, etc., what commercial banks normally offer in a competitive environment? You're saying you do. Ask the secretaries of your MPs how easy it is, how fast and where they have to go to get the money, etc. And there's a couple of us. We really need this once in a Hungarian year, and there are seven clubs here. And how many health insurance companies are there? How many branches do they have in all district cities? And are there branches of the Czech National Bank in the district cities? Well, they're not. I don't think they're even in all the county cities. And you're very calm to say that no comfort will go down, that it's delicious. I just don't believe it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-005-004.u63	Thank you to President Stanjur. This has been the last one entered into a detailed debate so far. If no one else reports for a detailed debate, I will conclude a detailed debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. Not interested. Since I do not see any proposals for a vote, I end with a second reading of this bill. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is:
