ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u1	13. Proposal by Members Marian Jurečka, Jan Bartošek and Petr Kudela for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 340/2015 Coll., on special conditions for the effectiveness of certain contracts, the publication of these contracts and the register of contracts (Law on the Register of Contracts) /Household printing 699/ - second reading We discussed this press on 1 June and interrupted the discussion of this point. I ask that the position at the rapporteur's table be taken by the plaintiffs' representatives. I have an announcement that it will be Mr Kudela. Yes, very good. And the rapporteur of the guarantee committee is Mr Chvojka. I will ask if the appellant wishes to speak at this stage. It's not like that. Where appropriate, the relevant rapporteurs, who are already mentioned by Mr Chvojka and Mr Klán - wish to speak. In that case, I will give the floor to Mr Klán, respectively. the rapporteur of one of the committees. Let me ask Mr Stupčuk. He doesn't want to get out. Following the speech by the rapporteur, we would continue the interrupted general debate. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u2	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, Mr. Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen. I volunteered to give you a few more comments on a certain evergreen of this House, which is the contract register. I took my performance under the term "no register as registry." A register of residents, a register of drivers, vehicles and, last but not least, a register of contracts. These are often tools of the information society to make our lives easier. However, by the latter instrument of capitalism, in particular, the private one may look into the treaties concluded by the State. Of course, we can all look at how we are here as well as citizens of the Czech Republic, but not only the Czech Republic. [[17.30 hours]] The advocates of this project have often argued that this is an important instrument in the fight against corruption. Some non-profit organisations, which are paid by the donors or, if you wish, by private capital, have said so. Since they are financed by this very capital, they often seek to enforce laws designed to weaken the national state's position under the guise of the fight against corruption. But let's get back to the contract register. On the basis of the approved law, state institutions must publish in the register of contracts, and therefore the entire state, i.e. owned companies, concluded contracts of over CZK 50,000. Here is the first problem - why they have to publish contracts in the register of contracts by companies that own the state and not private companies. In my opinion, the publication of contracts puts state firms at risk in a market where there is overwhelming competition in the current form of globalisation. The register of contracts therefore distorts the equality of ownership under the Constitution, i.e. private versus state. Another problem is that the register of contracts itself is not an anti-corruption law. Of course, the possibility of accessing contracts has certain anti-corruption potential, so it can be regarded as a public control instrument. But this has its pitfalls that a citizen cannot control all the contracts he would like, such as security contracts, etc. I am now moving into an area that will save a citizen if he can look, look or look in a contract that will just be put into the contract register. Let us remember that the register of contracts is functional and works from 1. This year's 7th. What, then, will the citizen save if he can look into a disadvantaged contract? That's an interesting question. I have asked this question many times, even the famous Reconstruction of the State. For a long time, I didn't get an answer from nonprofit organizations until, finally, after more than half a year, one arrived from Reconstruction of the State, which probably likes me a lot when it makes me one of the eclipsers, once I get four penalty points or red cards. I quote: "We believe that in such a case they will have to publicly defend the conclusion of such a contract by the responsible person and, if necessary, deduce responsibility. In the latter case, the conclusion of the contract may also have a criminal code. Above all, such cases will have a preventive impact on all obliged persons, as they will perceive public control and will rather proceed responsibly, economically and legally." I must say that this is a very naive answer. This is a lay point of view of the problem. In fact, the person who would look into the register of contracts would have to be heavily erudized in both commercial law and criminal law, as well as in economics, in different areas. An ordinary citizen, in quotation marks, does not really know whether the contract is advantageous or disadvantageous. If anyone wanted to find out about this, they'd have to hire expensive legal and other consulting services. It may be possible to file a criminal report in case of doubt. But what's next? In theory, here we can use Klausův' analogy to the idea of privatization of the 1990s. Anyone can participate equally in privatization. Technically, yes, but the reality, as the practice showed, was completely different. So everyone can look into the contract register, but the information obtained will, in my opinion, only be private capital. There is therefore a question of how individual citizens will eruditely know that this is a disadvantageous contract. Or do they think that they will do this by themselves to the best lawyers in law enforcement and doing business? Or the best economists who also do business? These people will not volunteer to do this, because first of all, they are doing their business, which results from the logic of contemporary capitalism, and second of all, some are directly involved in trade, which we refer to as a disadvantageous contract. It is again their business, this time ethically socially dubious, but legally completely clean. That leaves the opportunity to overpay experts to do business for the social quality of contracts, but that is in capitalism, ladies and gentlemen, mere illusions. So who does the contract register match? Let us conclude with this question. As has already been mentioned above, in my view only private capitalism and private capital as a whole, which sees the national state in its hands and in this way will gradually privatise it. That is why I will support any amendments that prevent this and remove all state, parastate and other companies from the register of contracts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u3	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. With priority rights, the President - this cannot be done, the debate is not open. With priority rights, please, if you're interested. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u4	Thank you. I can really fit into the limit of a factual remark. I completely understand the founder of Budvar, who does not want to put his business at a comparative disadvantage to competition, but I would like to light it from a different angle. This does not indicate the absurdity of the contract register. This fact points to the absurdity of the fact that the state owns the brewery. The state is setting up citizens for the purpose of performing a wide range of public services, but certainly not for the purpose of owning and operating breweries. If for some reason the state decides to own and operate a brewery, then it must, in turn, count on the comparative disadvantage of greater public control. I can't have pie and eat it at the same time. The petitioner's trying to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr. Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Jan Bartošek. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, have a nice evening. I have prepared several amendments to this standard, and I will mention them in the general debate. There's four of them. One step at a time. I tabled an amendment, which is set out in the system under number 4936. This amendment was inspired by the opinion of the Office for the Protection of Competition and has already been discussed in committee on this law. It is quite obvious that we would get the approved contract register law into a complex position of a company in state, regional and municipal ownership. By different obligations, we would establish an inequality of private, municipal or state ownership and would significantly damage companies owned by municipalities, regions or states. This would be a secondary damage to shareholders and would endanger dividends to these public budgets. I believe that we would be against ourselves, and who was in communal politics knows what I am talking about. The original bill refers to the national company Budvar, but in exactly the same position as Budvar is, for example, and since I am from South Bohemia, I will mention, for example, the brewery in Strakonice, which is generally owned. [[Municipal?]] This study by the Competition Authority draws attention - it is not a study, it is an opinion: The adoption of legislation that favours one group of competitors compared to others is contrary to the principles of competition. In this respect, the Act on the Register of Contracts will not be able to be interpreted in conformity with the legal rules on the functioning of competition, respectively. with high probability this may conflict with the constitutional principles of the legal order of the Czech Republic, by virtue of the basic principles of the functioning of the European Union. In the discussion, the Competition Authority also pointed out that problems cannot very often be treated by merely blackened parts subject to trade secrets. I have the opinion of the Competition Authority at my disposal for interested parties. The Union of Towns and Municipalities also draws attention to these problems and the study of the Ministry of the Interior on the commercial and economic risks of the Act on the Register of Contracts has reached the same opinion. Many of you have it at their disposal. My second amendment is in the system under number 4632, when my amendment recommends extending the publication of contracts in the register, namely contracts relating to the drawing of public funds from public budgets, including European funds. It seems logical to me that not only should the grant contract itself be published, but also the contracts for which the subsidy resources have been used. [[17.40 hours]] My next amendment is in the system under number 4491. In order to increase transparency and control of the management of public funds, this proposal includes the obligation to publish contracts in the register of contracts also for non-State non-profit organisations. In order to limit the administrative burden, it is proposed to limit the obligation to publish contracts by an amount of 2 million. Crowns. For example, so we don't bother volunteer firefighters in the country. This border reflects the fact that, according to the central accounts of the subsidies from the budget, between 1999 and 2015, the amount of the subsidy drawn from the state budget was on average to the beneficiary - the administrative form of the association, the foundation, the foundation, the foundation or generally beneficial company - about 1.5 million. With the introduction of this limit, smaller NGOs in particular will not be administratively burdened. I want to say here that the principle of the contract register is clear. Where public subsidies are being drawn, public money is recommended and I am in favour of making contracts public because citizens have the right to know how these resources are being used. Where public funds are not used and companies, even if they are exposed to competition, are subject to other control mechanisms and cannot be harmed by companies wholly owned by private entities in the context of competition. The last amendment is under number 4935 when the current text of § 8 para. In breach of the principles of private law and Section 559 of the Civil Code, it expressly requires only a written form as the only possible form of concluded contracts which are published in the register of contracts. It is evident that contracts concluded for various reasons in a different form, in particular in the form of oral, telephone, automated or other practical forms, which require practice, can subsequently be recorded in writing and published in the register of contracts. It is not difficult to subsequently translate the content of such a contract into written form and thus publish it. Interests protected by the Act on the Register of Contracts will be without prejudice to this and will meet the requirements of contractual practice and constitutionally guaranteed contractual freedom. More detailed justifications are attached to each amendment under the numbers I have mentioned and are included in the system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u7	I thank Vice-President Bartošek. A colleague of Stupčuk cannot be allowed to make a point of fact, or... [[Voices from the diaper.]] Sorry, you're the rapporteur. Well, that's a priority right. But I'm sorry, Vice-President Filip came forward first, so as the rapporteur after him. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u8	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me return to the principle of this bill. I will start with the Constitution of the Czech Republic and I dare quote that we do not question anything. Article 11 (1) (a) 1 The Constitution of the Czech Republic says that everyone - everyone - has the right to own property. The property rights of all owners have the same legal content and protection. Inheritance is guaranteed. This is Article 11 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the And then, in paragraph 2, it is said that the law provides which property necessary to secure the needs of the entire company, the development of the national economy, the public interest may only be owned by the State and so on. On the other hand, there is paragraph 3, which says: Ownership obliges. It shall not be misused against the rights of others or contrary to legal protected general interests. Its performance must not harm human health, nature, the environment above the level laid down by law. The expropriation or compulsory restriction of ownership is possible in the public interest, on the basis of law and compensation. Taxes and charges can only be imposed on the basis of the law. So much Article 11, which clearly determines what ownership is and that its legal content and protection is the same for all owners. This bill is not a bill that deals with something anti-corruption. There's no such thing. This bill is contrary to Article 11 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, and we will deal with it either as the Chamber of Deputies, that we will eliminate this constitutional contradiction, or there will be nothing else to do with the businesses that are damaged by this law, to go through the entire judicial process and to appeal to the Constitutional Court to repeal this law unless there are 41 Members who make such a draft constitutional complaint. I am prepared to work out, I have the opinion of at least two law firms that say that this bill restricts the ownership of the state, the region and the municipalities in an unconstitutional manner. That's reality. So look, it's simple. If we say that there is nothing against whoever deals with the property of the state, whether it is the Czech Republic, a local government unit, a state contribution organisation, a state fund, a public research institution or a public college, or a voluntary union of municipalities or regional council of the cohesion region, then in this respect, they are public institutions that do not manage for the purposes of the profits they manage with tax resources, and we can impose additional obligations on them because they are economic operators of the state property. However, as regards the undertakings that are set up to do business, that is to say, under the Corporations Act, whether it is a state enterprise, whether it is a national undertaking, Budvar or other undertakings, they are, of course, built outside the scope of Article 11 (1) of the Treaty in this respect. 1. And in this case, we need to deal with this as the Chamber of Deputies. We cannot here, on the basis of the pressure of a particular group, which I do not know how it was established, whose representatives were not elected to this Parliament and which seeks to distort the constitutional system of this State, so we cannot comply with them, because we would vote contrary to Article 11 (2) of the Treaty. 1 Constitution of the Czech Republic. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to amend the law so as to exclude those business entities from this, because in that case we place them in an unequal position and do not guarantee equal status of individual ownership forms by the law on the register of contracts. And either we deal with it here, or he'll decide for us by the Constitutional Court. I note that I do not think that we should make it difficult for those who manage the state's property on their account for their money and for this state to pay small sums in taxes, both in direct taxes and indirect taxes. In this respect, I believe that all amendments which will lead to the exclusion of anything in Section 2 of this proposal in the first paragraph from that point (k), then we will only comply with the diction of the Constitution. I believe that this bill is to be passed through the Chamber of Deputies so that we do not have to reach out to the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u9	I thank the Vice-President. Now, please, the rapporteur with priority rights. Mrs Olga Havlová apologizes today from 18 o'clock to 18 o'clock, Mrs Jana Lorencová apologizes from 17 for work reasons, Mr Šarapatka apologizes today, Mr Jiří Holeček apologizes from 17 o'clock to 17 o'clock because of the meeting in the electoral region and Mrs Marta Semelová apologises on Thursday 20 October from 9 o'clock for working reasons. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I originally wanted to respond to Mr Bartošek's speech, but I will now mainly respond to Vice-President Filip's speech, because it was even more specific. I therefore belong to those Members who have doubts that have been raised here. I, too, am in favour of maintaining equality in access to the protection of ownership so that we can fulfil the constitutional postulate that ownership has the same legal content and therefore logically also protection. Indeed, the current regulation is such that there is a disadvantage for those entities where, in particular, the founders are public corporations, whether they are a state, a municipality or a region, and where they often establish commercial companies precisely so that they can manage more effectively things of general public interest, such as gas, water, heat, etc., municipal waste and the like. I would like to say that I am convinced, as rapporteur for the Economic Committee, that there has been a solution here in the form of amendments that have been read to the Economic Committee in March and which have been approved, and at the moment these are amendments to the Economic Committee, and I would like to see that my colleagues, especially you who have doubts, pay attention to them because I believe that they represent the required solution to the remedy so that this is not precisely the creation of the constitutional inequality in the protection of individual types, i.e. ownership, and therefore logically their contents. That is all I have to say, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u11	Thank you to the rapporteur. If anyone else does not apply with priority rights, then we will continue the interrupted general debate, which Mr Simeon Karamazov was the first to sign up to. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u12	Dear colleagues, on the basis of the debate under way, we see that the Act on the Register of Contracts in its current form is certainly not problem-free and there is really no choice but to accept the idea that its amendment is inevitable. In this context, however, let me first mention one area which has been completely incorrectly neglected in connection with the register of contracts, which is the security of the Czech Republic. If we look at the text of the law, it does not know which contract is to be published. It applies with a few exceptions to all. For example, contracts the object of which is the handling of explosives. For example, information on where the explosive is produced, what kind of explosive it is intended to be sold to, or when and where it will be transported to, is to be published. Nothing has happened so far, you might object. Not exactly. Since the law has postponed the annulment of the contract for its non-publication for one year, there is now peace. Safety-risk contracts aren't published, and no one is in any danger yet. However, I believe that it is only the peace before the storm, which will take place on 1 July 2017, if the House does not act. After that date, contracts that are risky from a security point of view will also be published. For example, everyone on the contract register website will find that 20 tonnes of plastic explosives are to be delivered to the address specified in the contract on 5 August 2017. This is totally unacceptable for me, ladies and gentlemen. Especially with the current global security situation, we cannot allow citizens' security to be threatened by any terrorist on the Internet looking at such sensitive data. Protection through hiding business secrets will certainly not be enough for us. After all, it cannot be stated on a flat-rate basis that any information relating to, for example, the place of delivery of the explosive or the date of its transfer is information forming a business secret. Such information is usually not competitively relevant and therefore has to be made public. Moreover, the subject of the contract is the subject of the law among the always mandatory disclosure information. It makes it easy to tell what the public is saying in the treaty. I therefore appeal to you, my fellow Members, not to allow security threats to the citizens of the Czech Republic and to support the exemption for contracts relating to the handling of explosives. This exception is formulated in my amendment, to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. We all know that there is certainly no distortion of transparency in this business sector, because it is more than enough transparent. Just remind the central register of weapons, which includes explosives or regular reports in the transport of explosives to the Police Presidium. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u13	I thank Mr Karamaz. Another duly logged in is Mr. Josef Uhlík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, fellow Members of the Government, allow me briefly to justify the amendment that we tabled with my colleague Ladislav Velebný. The design is read in the system under number 4490. It is simple and concerns Budvar's national business. It specifies the original draft amendment and explicitly states that no contract of a national enterprise will have to be published. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u15	Thank you, honourable Member. Another duly registered member is Mr Petr Kudela. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u16	Good afternoon. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, I can boldly apply to the speeches made by my previous speakers, also to the speech made by Vice-President Filip, except for his argument, when he said that all points from point (k) down could be eliminated with ease. For example, with a health insurance company, I would leave the condition of publication of contracts. However, companies that may significantly endanger the contract register also include school economy, school goods and the like, because they are in a completely competitive environment and in addition provide a young generation education service. I have read the House document under number 4930, to which I will sign up in a detailed debate, and I propose that these school economies be excluded from the register of contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u17	Thank you. Another party to the general debate is Mr Milan Urban. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am at the very beginning of the negotiation of this law on the register of contracts, I mean the previous one, he thought that perhaps it was for the petitioners to protect the public funds of taxpayers. In this context, I also thought that probably those who are beneficiaries of state subsidies, which are about 70 billion, would be included in this law. I am thinking from national and European sources, whether they are national or private entities. This has not been accepted. From this I concluded that the petitioners are probably not about monitoring public funds transparently, but that they are probably interested in something else. I have subsequently confirmed this, since I have inserted in the system amendments by the Ministry of Industry and Trade concerning state testing institutes, which, if the proposal is adopted in its original form, means that these constitutions will either be abolished or privatised. That's what every normal person sees, and he gets it. I have submitted these proposals to these examination institutes, in accordance with the opinion of the Minister, in accordance with the opinion of the Ministry of Industry and Trade and relevant experts, to the Chamber of Deputies, into the system. Since the second reading is today, you will surely recognize that I have not yet been able to sign up for these proposals and de facto, I have not yet submitted them. Yet I will read you the e-mail I received. I think it's important. And why I read it whole, you'll understand when I do. [[18.00 hours]] "Dear Mr Urban, 14 6. we are They sent you an email asking for a meeting to discuss Your proposed amendments to the amendment to the Act on the Register of Contracts, the reasons which led you to submit them, and to present our view of possible solutions to the problems. On 16. 6. we have alerted you to your e-mail also via sms. To this day, however, we have received no reply from you." Attention, please. "In this context, we would like to inform you, at least this way, that we will inform the general public about your amendments and their implications for the publication of contracts. We have decided to ask you before launching the information campaign whether you are still insisting on your amendments, or are going to not sign up to them, or if you are going to do otherwise. With the greetings and wishes of a nice day, Lukáš Kraus, Bold Bold, Reconstruction of the State." I'm sure you'll consider that I'm not a lawyer that, in my opinion, the nature of a crime could have been fulfilled, whether blackmail or something like that. Maybe I do. Let others take a look at that. I don't think we should let this happen in this House after all. That is why I am here, and I therefore think that the amendments tabled in this new system of this parliamentary term are subject to very careful scrutiny. Firstly, they must be discussed by the guarantee committee that comments on them. Secondly, the entire Chamber of Deputies then votes on them democratically - that is, it will accept or not accept these amendments regardless of whether it is behind it or is not of any particular interest. For example, I would like to know who finances these and similar institutions. This is also not subject to the Act on the Register of Contracts. And I'm convinced that this is under the cover of transparency, under the cover of having an overview of public finances, so that, of course, we have it. I also do not prevent institutions of the type of contribution organisations, or institutions that live only on public budgets, from state, regional, or municipal budgets, from publishing those contracts. Of course, I support that. On the other hand, because I feel responsible for the economic sector and because I was Minister of Industry and Trade, I simply will not forgive myself for trying to protect the interest of the state here, because it is probably nothing other than to weaken these companies in some way, gain some competitive advantage or privatize them or things like that. And the fact that there are discredit campaigns, and not just for me, and for some other colleagues who have tabled amendments, that is true. But I think being intimidated would be the worst thing we could do at this point. I will therefore sign up for those amendments in a detailed debate, those tabled by the Ministry of Industry and Trade through my person, with whom the Ministry agrees and which concern the possible preservation of state testing institutes. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u19	I thank Mr Urban. With priority rights... Sorry. Another factual point by Mr Jan zahradník. Following it with priority rights, the rapporteur. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u20	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, Mr Urban has asked a rather interesting question here, which concerns the very organisation of Reconstruction of the State, which puts many of you under unsavoury pressure by publishing or trying to denunciate your legitimate proposals here as Members. And he asked who was funding this organization. I asked Minister Brabec about two years ago, or maybe a year and a half ago, about that time, and I found that Bold Bold was among the sponsors of this organization, a successor to the so-called ecological legal service, which evaluated in a very unsavory way the problems arising from the environmental building authorisation processes. So that's where the State Environmental Fund belongs. That's where the Home Office belongs. The Ministry of Environment also belongs there. So these state institutions also have an institution on the list of their beneficiaries, or an organization called Bold Bold. So we pay ourselves to an institution that then blackmails us - or at least those who have signed up to them, because not all of us have signed up to reconstruct the state. Many of us have remained resilient to their suggestions. But those who have signed are now exposed to their impertinent pressure. And they manage, among other things, for state money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u21	Thank you. I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, I can't give you my word, because at this point, none of the ministers are present, and I have to interrupt the House's meeting in the presence of at least one minister, as the Rules of Procedure command me. I interrupt the House meeting with at least one minister. [[After a while, Minister Brabec enters the hall.]] The Minister is present, please, we will continue the House meeting. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u22	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, Mr Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members. What the previous speaker here said, Mr Urban, I can only confirm. Something similar happened to me. I admit I signed the State Reconstruction, but today I know it was a mistake, which happens why not. The laws that were written there seem interesting and, of course, good. But the Reconstruction can't think that they're just gonna whistle and I'm gonna vote right here. I am here elected citizens of the Czech Republic, not reconstruction of the state. That's one. Secondly, the reconstruction of the state is paid by the Donators. So-called Donators. That's what they call themselves. And they enforce her interests through the very laws that are presented here as if. And then he's pressuring us, those different amendments that we're supposed to vote on and that we're not. I found their analysis, as I voted here in the Chamber of Deputies. And I was quite amused by the fact that I was the worst. I failed. I've been told I've fallen for these anti-corruption laws. Wannabe anti-corruption laws. I heard we discussed four, and I didn't vote for four at all. That was so weird, because then I looked at the results of the vote and I voted for two and I didn't vote for two. And they gave me four penalty points. So here you can see they're purposefully manipulating data. They're gonna pull what they want, and that way they're gonna text you what they want. And, of course, the negative campaign is on. Of course, I don't have a problem with that. Of course, let the reconstruction of the state do as it pleases. I don't really care at this point. And I made it clear to the editor of the server immediately.cz that I will never again have anything to do with any reconstruction of the state, because it defends the interests of private capital and purposefully distorts data. If this is what the State's reconstruction in quotation marks wants to do, then it's not even an appropriate partner to discuss it with. I have seen many times on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development when they came there - I have to say it here, as it was - literally children or students and were unable to explain to us why these laws should look like this. Well, if that's what they want to do, I find it kind of embarrassing. [[18.10 hours]] And one more story like that in the negotiation of the contract register when we were here discussing the returned version of the Senate. So I met a number of young people before the House. Those were people under the age of 30, a little younger than me. And when I asked them what the law was against corruption, and they couldn't answer me, and when I asked them who was paying for the stand, they didn't tell me anything either. And when I saw a line behind them, a group of quite decently dressed people, I asked them if it was them. It really was some nonprofit organization, I don't want to blame anybody here. But if we look at those donors, we just have to go alphabetically in some sort of file, register of contracts, encyclopedia of the register of contracts, it's written by who supports them. From the American Embassy to the Student Agency, they all admit it themselves. U.S. Chamber of Commerce, British Chamber of Commerce. Of course, the Home Office showed up and more. That is why I will support the amendment, which will put back into this register of contracts, virtually. there it will introduce to show the management of non-profit organizations. And then, ladies and gentlemen, we'll be surprised!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u23	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sorry, Mr. rapporteur, after Mr. Urban. The rapporteur has priority rights. I'm sorry, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u24	Thank you for the floor. I'm just making a few notes. You all know that I had quite a time with the register of contracts and reconstruction of the state during the first time the law on the register of contracts was discussed. I have some good news for you. Or at least one good news. I don't think anyone cares about the reconstruction of the state anymore. So you don't have to worry that if they write something negative about you, it'll hurt you somehow. And then I'll give you an example that maybe sometimes it's quite the opposite. The first thing my colleague Klán said, I will respond to him. Yes, they really published a 14 days before the election some strange ranking of Members who are the best, who is the worst. It's interesting that I, who was the reporter of the contract register, the electoral laws, made a conflict of interest, ended 49. Then somebody who hasn't even touched these laws in quotes ended up third, but that's just some weird methodology that I don't care about, so let's not worry about it. And the other one, the funny one, the story. If my colleague Snopek can hear me, how can the reconstruction of the state help you? So Colleague Snopek was one of those guys who got those red noses on the billboards. And I went after Pardubice and there at every crossroads a billboard with my colleague Snopek with a red nose. But people in Pardubice think and think that fellow Snopek is a medical clown in hospitals in Pardubice and that he's basically a good person. So maybe it helped him that he jumped from an unchosen place to an optional place in the regional election and is a member of the regional council in Pardubice. [[Laughter and applause in the hall.]] That means when the State's reconstruction puts a red nose on your billboard, it doesn't mean it's wrong, but it's good because someone might think you're a hospital health clown and that you're a good person and that you help people. So congratulations to my colleague Snopek. And I am telling my colleague Urban, through Mr President, that he does not have to do anything about it, because the reconstruction of the state is basically no longer of interest to anyone. But I understand what's bothering him. I totally get that... He's banishing me. [[Member Urban.]] I gotta go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u25	I'm really the one here to banish. Please, Mr Urban.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u26	I apologize to my colleague. Of course, it can have a half-funny plane, and maybe it does. But this is about certain principles, and you're not that funny. That is why, through Mr President, my colleague Zahradník: I did not sign up for the reconstruction of the state, and yet I am dehonested. Basically, it doesn't matter if they didn't do it, because they can't do it, or they'll do it next time. It's the principle. And I'll tell you, actually, before the election, like you guys, they visited me in the MP's office and said, "We want you to sign this." And if you sign it, we'll text people that you're the one they're supposed to vote for and that you're the right MP. And I said, "Why do I have to sign something I don't know anything about?" The title of the law doesn't say what the content and what the law is really going to be. That's what a pretty girl said to me, "It's okay, if you don't sign it, we're gonna text people not to vote for you." So I said, get out and do what you think. They did it, of course. They sent it to these people, sent who they should vote for and who they shouldn't vote for. I think it's a little bit, and I'm not mad at anybody, that we kind of kind of have the political representation of the cross-section of all the political parties that kind of fell for it. I hope next time we'll all be a little more attentive so we don't have to get into situations where we're being blackmailed and tried to discredit us in different ways. We do not know who is behind it, nor do we know whether it defends the interest of this country or not. We don't really know anything. All we know is, whoever won't listen to us, he'll see! Anyone who listens to us will be commended by the voters. I think there is little for an advanced democracy after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u27	Thank you. Mr Vladimír Koníček, Mrs Černochová, followed by Mr Vladimír Koníček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u28	Mr President, I would like to turn the attention of Members to the Reconstruction of the State. When they evaluate and observe us, I sometimes look at their web reconstructionstatu.cz and in the region As we have financed for the tenth month, they have written a sentence: We are currently preparing the evaluation of funding for 2015. I believe they'll last at least two months, and then they'll just change the number to 2016. You simply won't find a number on the financing of Renovation of the State on its website this year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u29	Thank you. Mrs Jana Černochová and her factual point. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I have a favor to ask you. Of course, what my colleagues from KSČM said here is true. The bill also interferes with matters that should be an intimate matter of state security and defence. And we are actually discussing something at this point without the presence of the Secretary of Defense, without the presence of the Home Secretary. Is this government really fighting terrorism? Or he reveals cards to terrorists by posting all contracts on the Internet, all the data relating to arms companies, without being bothered by anyone. If you don't mind, I don't mind. And I would like to know the position of both the Minister of Defence and the Minister of the Interior. Therefore, I politely ask you to support the proposal to interrupt this item in the presence of ministers. And I ask that the chairmen of the Defence Committee and the Security Committee discuss this also in the committees. Because we are really going beyond what the Czech Government is trying to do here, and I fear that we will all bear the consequences in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u31	I thank the Member and note her procedural proposal to interrupt this point to the present, to say exactly, the Minister of Defence and the Minister of the Interior. Isn't that right? These two ministers. Thank you. I'll sign you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the proposal to interrupt this point in the presence of the Ministers of Defence and Home Affairs. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 24. 109 Members are registered, for 40, against 26, and the proposal has not been accepted. That was the last point of fact so far. The motion for an interruption was not accepted and Mr Jan Farský, as so far the last one entered into the general debate, came forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u32	Mr President, dear fellow Members, I would just like to say here that we are the law on the register of contracts -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u33	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, but you will only bring this up after the House has quieted down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u34	I'd just like to set the record straight, since we've approved the contract register here. There are many strong words here, even from the people who voted in favour of this law. They are now proposing amendments after the law has only been effective for a few months. If I were to take their words literally, on July 1, this year the world would end. I didn't. All you have to do is look around. Perhaps the emotions that were mentioned around this law have diminished because some performances really had little to do with reality. I'd like to give you some indisputable facts here. No contract is published in the Act on the Register of Contracts, which at the same time might not be published under Law 106/1999. On the contrary, contracts are published less in the Act on the Register of Contracts because there is a limited list. All the protection given to contracts and information pursuant to Law No. 106/1999, all these exceptions, all this protection, let it concern security, let it be a business secret, will be taken over by the Act on the Register of Contracts. None of the exceptions that the law already provides for 106/1999 is rejected. On the contrary, it adds some other exceptions, both to entities and to activities. And so, for example, when the last year before the law was passed, 2015, representatives of the coalition parties and the Ministry of the Interior spent large debates, where their legislative representatives processed the final text, which we then approved in December, so they also thought about the risks of threatening the companies they control, their own state. And that's why they put §5 para. 3 which was also called a reaction to Budvar. And not only does it protect business secrets according to 106, but even if the chain of contracts is a business secret, it is also possible to remove this information from publication. The Act on the Register of Contracts is a subset of Act 106/1999, and who wants to access the information that is being heard here, as if it were threatening the security of the state, could already have gotten to them in accordance with 106. If he could not, if the hundred-six exceptions apply to him, then these contracts will never be in the register of contracts. That's how simple the information is. Contracts and information are being dealt with. I personally consider it a certain victory that there has not yet been any major trouble, because the words of some politicians are not confirmed, that they may all be stealing and that public administration will waste 200 billion. Crowns. I hope that the register of contracts will fulfil one of its two essential requirements and that it will restore trust. Because many live with the fact that everyone just steals, everyone who moves in public administration, so they do it for personal enrichment, and the register of contracts shows that, let's say, nothing like that happens yet. With contracts and a register of contracts, published by the Ministry of the Interior of the Czech Republic and administered, and a hat down before what they could compose for less than CZK 2 million, and their task was only to do what they did, which means they made a portal that securely compared to the handling of the contracts published. But, of course, it's a huge amount of data that makes some sense by processing and sorting and comparing. And I recommend that you look at the contract monitor.cz, where you can already filter by individual subjects, depending on the error rate of publication, according to speed, according to the case that connects, according to the interrelationship of individual subjects, and suddenly the information makes sense. They make sense that the layman knows them, even the competition knows them, but why not, the opposition knows them. And let's not forget that it's still the management of public funds. And these funds have been given to us politicians in representative democracy to manage and to treat them as best we can. And we treat them in the interests of the citizens, so it doesn't make much sense for us to keep this information from the citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u35	Thank you. This has been the last one entered into the general debate so far. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. Vice-President Jana Černochová. prosit, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u36	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to ask that, in the context of the general debate, or after it has been concluded, in accordance with Paragraph 93 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 returned the draft law to the guarantee committee for renegotiation and that the guarantee committee should remain the committee to which it was addressed, but that, in the meantime, both the Security Committee and the Defence Committee should deal with this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u37	Thank you. This can indeed be done in accordance with Article 93 (2) of the Treaty. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in I am registering this proposal of yours, however, before I do so, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking about the final words of the rapporteur's lords? Not interested. I will call our fellow Members from the lobby and we will therefore vote on Mrs Černochová's proposal to return the bill to the guarantee committee for a renegotiation under Section 93 (1). 2. I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. I am opening the vote on the return of the bill to the guarantee committee for renegotiation. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 25-order vote. 117 Members and Members are registered, 43 against 52. The motion was not accepted. I am opening a detailed debate. I merely recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mr Radek Vondráček was the first to enter into a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I have not intervened in the general debate with the fact that the amendment that I am proposing and to which I am signing up contains detailed reasons and is an adjustment which explicitly introduces a clear rule in the law that banking secrets and contracts that deal with banking secrets are protected and do not need to be published in the register of contracts. Although I am not a fan of any major interference in this law, I took advantage of this opportunity that the law is open, and I would like to present this useful amendment, small, I would say technical, which does not alter the original substantive intention of the law. This amendment is contained in the system under No. 5102. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u39	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Václav Snopek is another member of the detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u40	Dear Vice-President, colleagues, I belong to that group of dimmers. Those who were ostracized on billboards throughout the Republic first anonymously, only Reconstruction of the State, then a certain Mr. Jančura applied for it, that was the second wave. And the third wave already understood that they couldn't do even basically anticampaign, so they changed billboards to completely different ones. And this time, I'm not all alone. I am there with Mr. Vice-President Bartošek, in short, according to the Reconstruction of the State and Mr. Jančura, we are the ones who want to hide how the state operates. But unfortunately, they use half-truths, half-truths. And I can underline Mr. Urban's words. I have dealt with the gentlemen concerned - we have forgotten to name Mr. Kužílek, whom you know many. In short, it is pressure on Members, and I have called the pressure of this group worthy of the 4th prize group's gallery, and I insist. So sometimes a good thought gets killed by how insistent these gentlemen are. And it's interesting how some colleagues take over the rhetoric of these pressure groups. [[18.30 hours]] But the point of my speech is to apply to the amendments. One - under number 4197 - was taken as the basis for the negotiations of the Economic Committee and 13 votes were approved. I tabled the other two amendments and are listed in the press under number 4475. One of these amendments will be similar and concerns the protection and security of the state. This means protecting data relating to the handling, production, processing, storage of explosives and not doubting whether the economic committee's proposal is entirely correct, I have also taken the liberty of submitting an amendment specifying the approved proposal of the Economic Committee, although it is a legislatively technical nature, but nevertheless a word of consequence could be challenged, which is why I am making this amendment more precise. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u41	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, colleague Snopek. To be sure, I will read the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. He's been apologizing since 6:00 p.m. Ing. The Květa of Matušovská and Vojtěch Adam. We will continue with the detailed debate by speaking to Mr Uhlík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I hereby sign up for the amendment, which is read under number 4490 in the system. I gave the reasons in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u43	Thank you, Uhlík Colleague. Next is Mr Simeon Karamazov. And I ask the House for peace so that we can record the amendments correctly. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u44	Thank you for the floor. I want to sign up for my amendment under number 4433, which is set out in this way in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u45	I thank Mr Karamaz. Now, Mr Jan Birke. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to sign up for two amendments under 4650 and 4651. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u47	Thank you, Mr Birke. Now, Mr Pavel Antonín. I don't see a colleague, his application is failing at the end. Now, Mr. Vilímec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u48	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for an amendment registered under House document 4659. I did not speak in the general debate, of course the House document also contains reasons, but I would also return briefly to this proposal. This is an exclusion from the obligation to register contracts, voluntary associations of municipalities. The motion was already filed by me at the time of the first law hearing. Indeed, the main reason for this proposal is the minimum administrative apparatus for voluntary associations of municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, we have 6,250 municipalities, often not even 200 or 300 inhabitants, and it is clearly in the interest of the public administration to join the municipalities for certain activities. Already now, if a voluntary union of municipalities is established, it must, in principle, fulfil similar formal obligations to each community. For example, the final bill of the voluntary union is approved not only by the general meeting of the voluntary union of municipalities, but is presented to all the councils of all the Member States. I am the chairman of one such voluntary union of municipalities, which has 22 members, 22 member municipalities, and this means that I must guarantee that the final account will be presented to all the councils. It's not really a simple matter at all. Both the conclusion and the budget before the approval of the general meeting shall be placed on an electronically accessible official plate of all the Member States. And I would like to point out that in recent years the requirements for fulfilling formal obligations have been constantly increasing, and this significantly binds the willingness of individual municipalities to constantly create or continue the activities of these unions, especially when there are some associations or associations of municipalities established under the Civil Code and such strict obligations do not have to be fulfilled at all. They are neither mandatory persons subject to the Act on the Register of Contracts. The amendment is tabled in two alternatives. In alternative A, this is the abolition of the obligation of voluntary associations of municipalities to register contracts under this law. This alternative is supported by the Union of Towns and Municipalities. In the second, narrower alternative, the obligation applies only to those voluntary unions whose members are a municipality with extended scope. According to the existing wording of the Act, they are exempt from the obligation to register contracts of municipalities which do not carry out so-called. extended scope, but voluntary associations of municipalities composed only of Member States without extended scope have such an obligation, i.e. There is obviously some illogicality here, while, of course, the inter-general cooperation, the association of those municipalities, also from my experience, concerns mainly the smallest municipalities that provide certain services and activities together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u49	I thank Mr Vilímc. Now, Mr Lukáš Pleticha, with his speech in a detailed debate. A colleague Josef Uhlík will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u50	Thank you, Mr President. I would apply to my proposals, which are justified in detail in the system, namely the 4483 proposal, the 4484 and the 4940 proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u51	Thank you, colleague. We can continue with a detailed debate by speaking with fellow Josef Uhlík. He's also failing his application. Now a colleague of Petr Kudela. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u52	Mr President, Minister, I believe that my colleague Uhlík has already tabled his amendment and justified it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u53	I had him logged in here twice, I have to respect it according to electronic applications. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u54	I am applying to the amendments that have been read into the system under the numbers of House documents 4930, 4936, 4632, 4491 and 4935. Parliament's document 4930, the amendment I mentioned in the general debate, is an amendment proposing that a school economy be excluded from the scope of the contract register, because these school economies are in a competitive environment and the obligations arising from the contract register can significantly damage them and can cause increased financial costs for the State or their founders, particularly at regional level. The second amendment, 4936, was commented by Vice-President Bartošek in his opening speech. This amendment is inspired by the opinion of the Office for the Protection of Competition. It is quite obvious that we would get the approved contract register law into a complex position of a company in state, regional and municipal ownership. This amendment is therefore similar to the amendment that I evaluated a little while ago. [[18.40 hours]] Amendment 4632. On the contrary, this amendment recommends extending the publication of contracts in the register, namely contracts related to the drawing of funds from public budgets, including European funds. It seems logical to me that not only should the grant contract itself be published, but also the contracts for which the subsidy resources have been used. Amendment 4491, to which I also declare. In order to increase transparency and control of the management of public funds, this proposal includes the obligation to publish contracts in the register of contracts also for non-State non-profit organisations. In order to limit the administrative burden, it is proposed to limit the obligation to publish contracts by an amount of 2 million. Crowns. So the principle is clear. Where public funding is drawn, I recommend publishing contracts there. Citizens have the right to know how these resources are used. And the last amendment I'm applying to is under number 4935. The current wording of Section 8 (b) is replaced by the following: In breach of the principles of private law and Section 559 of the Civil Code, it expressly requires only a written form as the only possible form of concluded contracts published in the register of contracts. It is evident that contracts concluded for various reasons in a different form, in particular in the form of oral, telephone, automated, which requires practice, can subsequently be recorded in writing and published in the register of contracts. So much to sign up for the amendments and their brief justification. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u55	I thank Mr Petr Kudel. In his previous speech, Mr Birke has already made amendments, which leaves Mrs Jana Hnyková and Mr Antonín and then, of course, a colleague Milan Urban. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me apply to the amendments put in place by the Chairman of the Social Policy Committee, Mr Jaroslav Zavadil. And because he's on a business trip and he's coming back, he couldn't justify it here himself, so I dare to justify and sign up to these amendments that were inserted into the system under the number 4675 and 4693 when they are deleted from the register of collective agreements. I will allow myself only briefly to justify this from the explanatory memorandum because he asked me to do so during the general debate. I would just like to say here and justify why we want to remove collective agreements from this very law. The Act on the Register of Contracts cannot apply to collective agreements concluded between employers and trade unions with regard to the obligations of the Czech Republic relating to freedom of association, in particular under the International Labour Organisation Convention No. 87 on freedom of association and protection of the right to organise in trade unions, hereinafter referred to as the International Labour Organisation Convention No 87. 98 on the implementation of the principles of the right to organise and collectively negotiate and further from the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. According to Article 6 (1) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and that it does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The contract to which the obligation to publish through the contract register applies shall take effect at the earliest on the date of publication of the contract register. This is contrary to Article 26 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2 of Act No. 262/2006 Coll., Labour Code, as amended, according to which the effectiveness of the collective agreement begins on the first day of the period for which the collective agreement was concluded and ends on the expiry of that period, unless the period of effectiveness of certain rights or obligations is agreed in the collective agreement by way of derogation. I just want to say in conclusion that the application of the Act on the Register of Contracts relates to collective bargaining and collective agreements would lead to a substantial reduction in the number of collective agreements entered into. [[Which one?]] In order to avoid these problems, corporate collective agreements would be replaced by internal employers' regulations, which need not be published and the content of which are not affected by trade unions. The proposed removal of collective agreements from the scope of the Act on the Register of Contracts will eliminate these problems and will ensure compliance of Czech legislation and practice with those conventions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u57	Thank you, my colleague Jana Hnyková. So now, in turn, Mr Antonín, with his amendment in a detailed debate, follows Mr Milan Urban and Mr Vlastimil Gabrhel's speech. And I ask the House for peace!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u58	I hereby sign up for my Amendment No 4505 which is stored in the system and concerns all entities with at least one health insurance undertaking.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u59	I thank Mr Antonín. Now a colleague of Milan Urban.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u60	4319 and 4321 - these are the amendments I am proposing to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u61	Okay. I thank my colleague Urban. Now, Mr Gabrhel, with his amendment. Please, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for an amendment marked 4474. It is stored in the system including a justification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-010-013.u63	Thank you. I'm asking who else to discuss in detail. If no one is reporting, I am ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. It's not like that. I will just check with the rapporteur or with the rapporteur's lords to make it more precise whether there has been a proposal that can be voted at second reading. According to the notes he did not fall, and I can therefore end the second reading of point 13 of the draft amendment to the Act on the Register of Contracts. I thank all the rapporteurs and the representatives of the appellants. The next item in our approved agenda is the item number
