ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-040-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, before I begin the 40th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I have a message for you. We assume that the 39th meeting will continue after the end or interruption of the 40th meeting, even at 14.30, which means that it will reach paragraph 202 - Oral Interpelration today. Therefore, I would like to warn you that by 11 o'clock at the latest it is possible to submit an application for oral interpellation and at 11.30 there will be a lottery draw. I am now opening the 40th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all to it. I called this meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 42 Members. The invitation was distributed to you through the parliamentary clubs on Thursday, January 21st. I'm asking everyone to sign up with their cards or tell me who's asking for a replacement card. Mr Velebný votes with card number 3. We would now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mrs Černochová and Mr Čihák. I'll ask if anyone else has a suggestion. If that is not the case, then we will vote. My colleague Tejc has card number 8. We will therefore vote on the designation of the verifiers of the meeting. Initiating the vote, I ask who agrees that the verifiers be Mrs Černochová and Mr Čihák. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 1, registered is 98, for 93, against no one. This proposal was adopted. So I'm saying that we've identified the verifiers for this meeting. I would like to inform you that the reasons for not taking part in today's meeting have been requested by the following Members: Mr Vojtěch Adam - working Vozka, Vice-President Pecková - working grounds, Mr Běhounek - working Zemánek, Mrs Dobešová - working ground, Member Farský - working ground, Mr Fiala - working ground, Mrs Fischerová - working ground, Mr Rykala - working ground, Mr Hájek - working ground, Mrs Hnyková - working Váhalová, Member Schwarzenberg - working ground, Member Syblík - Wernerová ground, Member Jakubčík up to 1545 - working ground, Mr Kádner from 11 to 13 hours for work Vilímec, Mr Klučka - working ground, Mr Stupčuk - Ženíšek ground, Mr Pilný - working ground, Mrs Koubek - working ground, Mrs Langšádlová from 10 hours on labour Nytrová, Mrs Lorencová for medical reasons, Mrs Matušovská - personal reasons, Mrs Maxová up to 13 hours - working ground, Member - working ground, Mrs Koušek - working ground, Mrs. Minister Dienstbier - working reasons, Minister Jurečka - working reasons, Minister Marksová - working reasons, Minister Pelikán - working reasons, Minister Stropnický - working reasons, Minister Šlechtová - working reasons, Minister Valachová - working reasons, and Minister Zaorálek until 14.30 for working reasons. And yet my apology arrived, which I loaded yesterday, but just in case - Mrs Semelová from 9 o'clock for work reasons. We will therefore now proceed to the establishment of the 40th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. It is not possible to propose an amendment or addition to the programme and it is also not possible to extend the approved programme. [[It's busy in the hall.]] However, before we proceed to the programme, I have several applications with priority rights. The first one is signed in by the Minister, followed by the President of the ODS Club. Minister, please, you have the floor. I'm asking the House for peace. Please take your seats and listen to the Minister's speech. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-040-01-000-000.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's extraordinary meeting has been convened to focus its attention on the Czech myth. As you all know, this isn't the first time I've seen this government work, and as I've watched the opening... I'm sorry. It's not the first and probably not the last. It is certainly interesting that they are again trying to convene such a meeting by Members who themselves were able to take action in this area and did not do so and contributed so much to the current situation. I'd like to start by saying what the myth is about. Myth is a large, one of the largest IT systems of the state administration, which annually collects around 10 billion. Crowns. It has a cost of about 20 percent, which is also due to the fact that the substantial cost is being paid, the investment. However, it is a system that works and is reliable. Of course there are a lot of problems around him, especially a lot of media announcements. On the other hand, when we look at other large IT systems in the state administration, we have to say that for example. the system at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs with Karet cost similar money but does not work. We have other systems, such as: IZIP, and we know how it turned out for example. At the Opencard. Unlike IT from these systems, this works. I welcome the interest in the myth very much, and I am pleased that it will be discussed on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, and I will be happy to present you with all the information available to the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-040-01-000-000.u3	Minister, before you continue to submit information, I ask the House to calm down. In order for Members to sit in their seats, they would not discuss it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-040-01-000-000.u4	In order to explain our progress responsibly, it is necessary that I briefly describe what has happened in the past and what possibilities those who have entered into a toll contract, especially the essential additions, have left us. The contracts for the delivery and operation of the toll were signed at the end of March 2006 by the then Minister of Transport Milan Šimonovský. The toll system should have been delivered and put into operation during 2006, with a sharp operation to commence after proper pilot operation on 1 January 2007. Unfortunately, at the time of the signing of the treaties, there was already one fundamental fact. The toll system was not entered in the competition and subsequently delivered in a form that would make it passable. There is no myth in the contract and no provision has been made for the transfer of the system to another provider after the termination of the contract. In addition, there was no definition of who would charge the tolls prescribed in December 2016 if the contract ended on the last December and the tolls were settled back on the following month and, in isolated cases, longer. The contracts were negotiated by the existing operator Kapsch 31. 12. 2016 simply ceases to provide services. There'll be nothing further. It'll just be quiet. I would like to highlight this moment. Stand for almost eight billion. he bought a system, had it operated and modernised by a private company, and in the contract he doesn't discuss how he will continue with the myth and who and how he will do the accounting for that December 2016. For me, it means that the person who prepared the contract either didn't expect to collect the myth at all after the end of 2016 or that the service provider will not change in the future, or it will only be very difficult and probably very expensive. This was for myth wound number one. And very soon she came for the myth wound number two. [[9.10 hours]] In June 2006, that is less than three months after the signing of the contracts with Kapsch, Minister Šimonovský concluded the first amendment. It agreed that the state-owned letter transfer infrastructure, including the printing centre and billing infrastructure, would not be the infrastructure for clearing toll payments, including software and call centre infrastructure. Last but not least, telecommunications and electrical lines, including connecting devices. What the above means practically. Instead of the complete system he ordered, the state was given an incomplete system, I note at the same price, and the dependence of toll systems on external suppliers increased significantly, but not only on media suppliers, electricity, data services, but also the new components became foreign property, either the supplier himself or its subcontractors. This is a blow to myth number two, because some organs, blood vessels, arteries and veins connecting these organs have been removed from the State's ownership of the entire toll system. The toll system cannot be operated without these organs and blood vessels. In short, the state's dependence on external suppliers has increased extremely. I'm just gonna take a little turn here. In 2006, specifically 20. 11. Hospodářské noviny presented the following article on this matter. The amendment to the contract we discussed concluded at the beginning of June of this year with the company Kapsch then Minister of Transport Milan Šimonovský. However, he has signed the Treaty in accordance with the information provided by the Economic Newspaper under special circumstances. The amendment was submitted to the Minister for signature by Jiří Nouza, former Director of the Road Department. He wrote to the Minister that the amendment was advantageous for the state and that he recommended signing it. Deputy Minister Jiří Kubínek, who was responsible for tolls at the Ministry, did not sign the amendment. He wasn't even at the Ministry at the time, according to the source of Economic News. Nouza currently operates at the Road and Motorway Directorate, SimonovskŠimonovský did not respond to the calls of the Hospodářské noviny yesterday, but he said repeatedly that thanks to the amendment to the agreement with Kapsch, he provided the state with billions of CZK. The new Minister of Transport Aleš Řebíček is now trying to nullify at least parts of the amendment, but he needs the agreement of Kapsch. Tomorrow, Georg Kapsch will meet with the owner of the company and discuss this matter. So much Hospodářské noviny from 20 11. 2006. Anyway, what happened? In 2007, Minister Řebíček and his Deputy Hodač signed another amendment, according to which Kapsch is entitled to deploy toll gates of all tolled communications, for which the building permit will become legal until the end of 2017. This is despite the fact that toll service contracts are effective only until the end of 2016. This practically means that Kapsch can plant the gates until 2022, which is the third blow for the Czech myth, and unfortunately none of this previous amendment has been cancelled in this appendix. I have only mentioned the most fundamental facts that make today's situation very difficult. If I had to use the analogy, each of these wounds into the Czech myth alone makes it impossible to dispose of any toll system if Kapsch does not want to allow it. However, all these wounds together represent a closed cage for the Ministry of Transport, in which the whole toll system with the Ministry is, and the keys to this cage are the existing supplier. Please, we can't all like it together, you can bully me and the ministry today, but that's a fact that we can do anything with anyone, anything. [[I don't think ……]] Now either Kapsch can get us to open the lock, or at least throw us the keys and we'll try to open it ourselves. Although these and many other facts could and should have been known to my predecessors, none of them did. From experience in preparing the existing contract and from experience from other countries, we know that the preparation of the tender for the new toll system lasts four to five years. All my predecessors must have been aware of that, and yet they didn't. And now for my actions at the Department of Transport. Yes, I admit fair and square that it took me a while to get to know the toll level of the problem. Until February last year, no one spoke openly about how copyright to document myth, as it is, or rather, as it is not about ending the myth after the end of the contract. Nobody's made public notice of any more pitfalls. In the press there were information about additions, some were and are listed on the Ministry's website, but it was up to the Ministry of Transport under my direction, which began to deal in detail with the matter and covered all the outlined problems. Your hand on the heart, ladies and gentlemen, some of you who are criticizing me now and perhaps criticizing me have had the opportunity to participate in knowing, as a state, about the problems and difficulties mentioned, on time, a few years ago. We didn't know about them. I can see that even then, the situation was difficult and difficult. After all, Mr Laudát admitted this when this House dealt with the situation at the Ministry of Transport more than a year ago under the influence of my predecessor Mr Prachař. But don't criticize me now because I've started to deal with things and that I'm looking for all the ways with an even acceptable level of risk. One of these trips was the way to find a qualified consultant, Deloitte. We are trying hard, but we still have to remember that we have to move within the legal framework in force. When I came to the Ministry of Transport in 2014 in December, there was a competition for toll managers, which was very much debated and had objectively errors. Moreover, I was informed by the President of the UOHS that the competition was not correctly announced by the Authority, and if I do not cancel it myself, it will be cancelled by the UOHS. So I canceled this tender and already in March suggested to the government that we buy time and extend the operation to the existing operator for a very long time, so that we have time to complete the technologically neutral competition. This solution was not politically passable at the time, it is a pity, from today's point of view, that I did not insist on it. However, I modified my proposal to further use the myth and compete with existing suppliers and to select new suppliers in parallel. We are working intensively at the Ministry of Transport to continue the selection of myth after 2016. We will use the existing system to do this, and I will propose to the government to continue with Kapsch for a very long time. It is a situation that I do not enjoy, I would rather say that we are competing with a new operator and that everything is okay, however, as I said earlier, given what has been negotiated and supplemented in 2006 and 2007, the Ministry has virtually no other way of reacting in the present time. At the government meeting 17. 2. I will submit a proposal on how we want to achieve the selection of myth from 1. 1. 2017 using the existing system, and the timetable for all steps necessary for the collection of the new toll system. We will undoubtedly want Kapsch to make this operation significantly cheaper, to include in the myth the EETS European service, to reach an agreement on synergies and to correct the mistakes made in the aforementioned additions. At the same time, we are working on a selection procedure to find a new toll system, to find a consultant, and we will announce a tender procedure for this consultant in the near future, which will help us with this process. We will do everything we can to ensure that this process is in progress as soon as possible. More truly in such a complicated legal situation and in such a short time cannot be handled. I can assure you that the state and the Ministry of Transport will also choose the myth properly in 2016, which is our crucial priority. Therefore, I would like to ask all of you, before you include me in your complaints, to take a responsible assessment of who among the last ministers, including me, actually address the myth and who came up with the truth in the light of the world even though it is not pleasant. But that's very often the case with the truth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-040-01-000-000.u5	Thank you, Minister. The next priority speech is for President Stanjura and President Laudát will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-040-01-000-000.u6	Thank you for the floor. As one of the former transport ministers, Minister, I must tell you that you didn't come up with the truth first. Maybe I knew, but I'll get to it. The minister began with an excursion until 2006, and that is already politically prehistoric. I came to the Chamber of Deputies in 2010. We are in this parliamentary term - Mr President, try without the comments, it really disturbs the one who speaks. I'm not criticizing it, I'm stating a fact, and we agree that the Minister said so. We're in this parliamentary term, so I have my performance divided into two parts. Whoever expects some sharp political debate, dramatic criticisms from the Prime Minister to replace the minister at the latest this afternoon, will be disappointed. You won't hear anything like that from me today. The problem is not simple, which is certainly what Minister Took and I agree with. And I think that the opposition is also interested, and for us I declare it very clearly, that the myth should be chosen after 1 January 2017. We've often proven that we don't follow the motto the worse, the better. If we wanted to follow this, I guess we didn't call this meeting, because I had a very precise idea where the minister would start and who he would try to delegate the responsibility to. And it would probably be better for us to keep quiet, to keep quiet, to keep quiet, and then maybe in January 2017 to be smart, we knew it, we might have said it. I'm not doing any of that today. The first part will be analytical, when I will logically focus on the functioning of the Ministry of Transport in this parliamentary term, and the second part will be a proposal for a solution to the next procedure. I know that the programme will not be approved, that is, if I read any proposed resolutions, I know that they will not be voted on today, but that is not important. We are serious about the offer that I will then make, and it does not matter whether we adopt a resolution or not. It doesn't matter. I mean, in the analysis that I'm about to introduce you to - and I'm sorry, the data is going to be quite a lot - I'm strictly based on government material or on the media appearances of government politicians. After the analysis, I will allow myself a short sum of my personalities, and I will inform you in time that these are no longer the words of government politicians or official materials, either the government or the Ministry of Transport, to which I have access. These aren't classified materials that I could get somewhere in a tricky way. In February 2014, the Government decided to set up a working group or a steering committee to deal with a new form of tolling system. It was intended to address the conditions of the new operator's tender and it was declared that the choice of technology would depend on the most efficient use of the existing technology. On 19 June 2014, I interviewed the Prime Minister on the toll system and on the question of the consultant on the competition for the new toll system. Now let me quote the Prime Minister. If you don't believe me, then you can look it up in the log, it's the words exactly from the log: So at this point, there's a competition going on. By the end of 2014 - not 2015, we are already in 2016 - the project manager is expected to analyse possible variants of road charging, the evaluation of the most appropriate option of charging, which will subsequently be submitted to the government for decision and approval. A responsible steering committee has been set up - that was in February - for the whole process that we have ahead of us and that we should be able to manage. I want to assure you that this is one of the priorities, or let's say one of the absolute priorities for the Ministry of Transport, to do everything we can to get the new system to work as of 1 January 2017. The Minister of Transport analysed the professional capacity available at the Ministry of Transport and concluded that this professional capacity did not allow him to manage the system responsibly. This means that it is the opinion of the expert minister, the government respected this opinion of the expert minister. I would just like to remind you that the deadline currently set for the submission of the basic parameters of the tender documents to suppliers of the electronic toll system and service providers related to the operation of this system after 2016 is currently 31 December 2014. This means that appropriate documentation should be submitted by the end of this year. - Those are the Prime Minister's words from June 2014. You can verify for yourself whether the deadline is 31. 12. 2014, which was established by the government itself, has been fulfilled. On 10 July 2014, the balance sheet journey of the Prime Minister to the Ministry of Transport took place. Those who remember the summer tour as the Prime Minister - the cucumber season - visited individual ministries to evaluate the functioning of the government at the press conference, the Prime Minister said: I am satisfied with the work of Minister Prachař. We had enough space to prepare the toll system and especially the role of project manager, where I assume that during August we will receive offers on the basis of a tender procedure. - We're still in 2014. On 11 August 2014, six candidates applied to tender for project manager. The price was estimated to be up to 100 miles. CZK, offers ranged from 23 to 75 miles. CZK, the winner's name should be known by the end of September 2014, the tender for the operator of the new system will be written in March 2015, said the Prime Minister on 10 July 2014. Once again, you can check for compliance with the deadline set by the Prime Minister. On August 20, 2014, criticism of the competition manager appears. Registered companies criticize the manager's tender due to formal errors and discriminatory conditions. On 5 September 2014, a coalition meeting took place regarding the deadline in the transport department. After this meeting, the Prime Minister said: It is important for a proper and transparent tender to be made, so the Minister has assured us that there is no delay. - I remind you, the deadline was March 2015 to launch a big tender. - I expect there will be no delay, Mr. Prime Minister emphasized. On 15 October 2014, we unsuccessfully tried to convene an emergency meeting with our colleagues from TOP 09 on the problems of the transport resort. The Coalition, for which it has every right, refused to approve the agenda for this meeting and the meeting did not take place. On 22 October the toll system was announced split into two parts - distribution and service of both units separately, with the fact that the winner of the tender manager competition will be known at any moment. There were considerations that the myth operator could be the state itself, virtually. Roads and highways. A month later, on November 15, Minister Prachař resigned. At the same time, the winner of the competition was announced for an advisor with a price of 23 million. Kč. At the beginning of December, the current Minister Ťok came into office, who abolished the tender for advisors on 18 December 2014, as he said - I quote the words at the time: there is no need for advisors to start the tender. I have resources here on December 18, 2014, Mr. Secretary, if you don't think so. I quote only the expression of government politicians. On 4 January Minister Ťok on TV in Questions by Václav Moravec mentioned as a backup plan B return to the paper highway coupons for trucks. I'm making a statement as plan B, not plan A. On 17 March 2015, the Minister announced that he wanted a discount for the extension of the contract for two years and synergies in the selection of a new supplier. The condition of the open competition, explained by the Minister, is that the new operator can either use what Kapsch has built and what is in the property of the state or cannot use it. - That's my personal point now: I agree with that, Minister. [[9.30 hours]] On April 15, the coalition approved a timetable for launching a tender to select a new myth operator. We therefore assume that the preparation of this tender is still ongoing within these boundaries and this timetable, says Bohuslav Sobotka. The grounds for the competition must be passed on by Minister Ťok to the coalition by the end of July and must be technologically neutral - a new tender. May 27, 2015 says Minister Ťok: I am doing everything I can to make it so that we can compete for the selection of the new operator by the summer of this year, that is, until the summer of 2015. The new operator is to be selected in a negotiated procedure that is more time-consuming, but is to rule out the risks of subsequent attacking the anti-monopoly office tender, which is also true, and the new head of tolls of the expert team of the Ministry of Transport is appointed Mr Chovanec, whose advantage according to Minister Ťok is that he does not know anything about the myth. On 24 June last year, Minister Ťok founded Cendis. The company is to manage the central myth system in the future. The reason for setting up this state company is the possibility of offering better salaries than the spreadsheets. It is expected, says the Minister at that time, that there will be five top managers who will be taking 100,000 a month. If we want to pay the IT experts, we don't stand a chance. We will not lure them to board salaries at the Ministry, says Minister Ťok in June 2015, and again I agree with his sentence, also the result of the table salaries, and today I do not want to have a debate about the service law and the table salaries. The role of Cendis will continue to represent the Ministry in the preparation of the toll tender, its role will be in the management and control of the toll manager, said the spokesperson of the resort. On 19 July last year, the toll competition is postponed. Just a reminder that the first date was the end of 2014, the second was March 2015 and the third was the summer of 2015. The competition for the operation of the new toll system will be launched at the beginning of 2016, the signature with the new operator is expected in September 2016. But according to the Office spokesperson, the new timetable is not entirely firm and - says the spokesman - we are sticking to the exact tasks given to us by the government. Next week, the Management Committee will receive the basic parameters of the procurement documents and then the government will receive them, which requested them. On 21 July, the Ministry of Transport announced the division of the tender into three parts, with the fact that the Ministry of Transport wanted to write a five-year tender for the operation of the existing system at that time, a tender for the extension of the collection of tolls in new places plus the distribution of central collection and toll collector data, which, in our view, was contrary to the government's technologically neutral competition at the time. At that time, the minister said: I don't care what system we choose for the myth, I wonder how cheap the myth will be. Again, I must say that I agree with this sentence of the Minister. On 30 July, the government postponed the discussion of the Ministry of Transport's material on 20 August. We also have a problem with the fact that he is partially resigning to the possibility of finding another technology, a new technology, such as a satellite myth selection system, said Prime Minister Sobotka. August 20, 2015, this was the substitute term for government material, the government postponed the toll system negotiations by just one week, when the Ministry of Transport prefers to extend the existing system by five years, social democracy by three years. 23. 8. 2015 coalition partners agreed to choose an external manager to prepare the tender. This, of course, lost the meaning of its existence two months ago, but as far as I know, it exists today. 26. 8. The government has approved for the third time an extension of the use of the existing toll system by three years, with a competition being launched on the toll gate operator for three years, a tender for the system manager, which separates the collection of data until their evaluation, and the evaluation wants to be implemented by the state in the future. We are not so far away, we are in August 2015, when the government decided to put the competition on the operator of the existing system for three years. On 6 October 2015, a consultancy contract was concluded without competition with Deloitte. The price of CZK 52 million, which means much higher than the winning offer in the original competition, using the negotiated procedure without publication. And who doesn't remember, because we often say that we should actively participate in the meeting of the Steering Committee, so that day was held by the Steering Committee at 9:00 a.m., at which the members of the Steering Committee were notified that the contract had been signed at 8:30 a.m. So what do you think the board of directors is running? At that time, the Minister said: We acted within legal limits. We are looking for solutions to be able to compete with the operators of the existing system and ensure the selection of the myth. Still - we are already in October of last year, it is not so far - there was a competition on the operator of the existing system for three years. At that time, however, the Prime Minister said: I expressed my disapproval and discontent with this process for social democracy. I asked the Minister to consider reducing the amount that should be paid by the advisers, possibly to cancel the consultation agreement, says the Prime Minister. On 20 November 2015, the government approved a new timetable in which the announcement of the competition was forecasted for the beginning of 2016 with the agreement signed with the winner in September 2016. A month later, the Ministry of Transport will announce that the competition will not be announced, with four options for future development, such as the extension of the contract of Kapsch by 15 months, the new operator will be in the second quarter of 2018. 7. 1. this year - you see, we have already cancelled this year - Office for Competition Protection canceled consulting agreement with Deloitte, I note in the first instance. The Ministry can use remedies, so it's true that the trial isn't closed yet. I can't tell when the final decision will take place. What did the chairman of the UOHS say at the time? The Ministry awarded the contract in breach of the Public Procurement Act in a negotiated procedure without publication. For the use of a given type of procedure, the conditions laid down by law were not fulfilled, i.e. that the contracting authority should not cause and cannot predict an extremely urgent case by its actions. The minister responded with an unrighteous decision, and I said the same thing when I said it was primal, we disagreed, and we're going to decompose. However, and I certainly don't want to defend the Office for the Protection of Competition and its President here, whom we very often - both the Office and the President - criticise. But if the minister, who is responsible, says he doesn't need a consultant to say he's in time distress and he needs a consultant ten months later, and that's why he's going to use JŘBU, these two statements make for the Department of Transport, I'd say the unsolvable problem that in logic things how I can say I'm in time distress when I myself said ten months ago that I don't need it. But we'll see how it turns out, it's in the hands of the Office for the Protection of Competition. I learned from the press that sometimes, I do not know whether this or last week, Slovak Sky Toll suggested to the Czech Ministry of Transport that it would take over the system, the existing system, from 1 January 2017, without any interaction with the existing operator. The next meeting of the Steering Committee took place on 26 January. It must be said that the Minister is infallibly hitting the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and if at 10 o'clock a meeting of the Chamber of Deputies is held and then hours are reserved for the meetings of the Members' Clubs, it is extremely unfortunate to convene the meeting of the Steering Committee at 10.30 because it is logical that at least those who are Members or Club Chairs will not have a chance to attend the meeting. And in that material were outlined three possibilities or three tenders: 15 months, three years, a new tender, so that on the same afternoon the minister announced that he would extend the contract with Kapsch. [[9.40 hours]] So much analysis. So many speeches and quotes from government politicians and official government materials. Minister, if we remember our debate in July over the idea of making tender, you will certainly confirm that I told you: The wrong idea, you are preparing a big tender, and if it does not, you will have a reason to extend the existing contract. And that I thought it was a fictional contest that wouldn't happen anyway. You rejected it then, you said you had dozens of company offers, especially software that could run the system or wanted to run it from 1 January 2017 to say five months after our debate that you had to sign a contract with Kapsch. And I wasn't the only one who said that. That is what other members of the Steering Committee and other representatives of other political parties have told you. I have prepared such a summary, and the Minister has helped me to do so, as if I had anticipated what he was going to say. So let me get this straight. Who's responsible for the current state of affairs according to Minister Took? Firstly, the 2005/2006 Government was the Government of Social Democracy, the KDU and the Union of Freedom, which signed a treaty with Kapsch. Mr Bohuslav Sobotka was vice prime minister in this government. First culprit. We heard it today and the Minister's speech. So we set it up the same way, actually. Another culprit, according to the Minister, is the ministers who signed the amendments to the treaty. That is what the Minister said in his opening words. The other culprit is all transport ministers who worked in front of Minister Took. That's a good guess, too. That is what the Minister said in his opening words. Of course, it's the opposition's fault, and especially me, who's been there for six months. And I should have dealt with everything that this government couldn't do in 24 months, or the minister in 14. But I have to say, I'm pleased. I am pleased with the belief of some government politicians in my ability that in six months I should have solved what this government has been dealing with for 24 months and Minister 14. I'm really pleased. In light of reality, take a picture of yourself as to whether this was possible. Another culprit, of course, is today's coalition partners of the Minister, who, according to the Minister's repeated statements, make his plans unnecessary. Another culprit, according to the Minister, is the Prime Minister. Allow me to quote the words of Minister Ťok to the address of Prime Minister Sobotka from July 31st, published on the iToday server, which is certainly not an enemy medium against the ANO movement. The Minister said: "In essence, before we announced any competition, the Prime Minister gave preference to the method of selection of myth and technology. I'm very shocked by the fact that it can put us in a very disadvantageous situation. Basically, my boss in the government instructs me what technology and to what extent I have to charge the toll. In other words, the Prime Minister determines who should win. And I think that all potential participants can use it in the appeal," criticized Minister Tok of Prime Minister Sobotka. Such a short comment. It is quite common for the Prime Minister to criticize his ministers. And it is quite unusual that the Prime Minister is shocked by the words of his own prime minister. Another culprit of the current situation according to the Minister is the ÚOHS and his personally favourite President Petr Rafaj. Here, let me quote the words of my honored fellow social democracy expert on the transport of Mr Birke, who responded to Minister Took's complaint that the UOHS is running the Social Democrat and is doing everything in his power to make the Minister fail. Mr.Birke said, or wrote, I have it from the server: "As usual, it is not bad to prepare the orders of the Minister's team, but external circumstances - this time it is the political task of social democracy, so that the independent President of the UOHS Petr Rafaj complicates as much as possible the life of the Minister of Transport. In addition to strongly resisting such accusations of social democracy, we would like to advise the Minister. The most common explanations are often the most correct ones. He should therefore consider whether to strengthen his team on experienced officials who will help him to prepare similarly complex tenders next time. Social democracy therefore calls on the Minister of Transport to start doing the work for which he is paid by taxpayers and to stop looking for mistakes everywhere but with him. On the contrary, he should take an example from his President and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš, who likes to brag about the radical reduction in the number of negotiated procedures without publication in his ministry. Unfortunately, it seems that without JŘB, it will not compete at all," said Mr.Birke, a government Member. I must say, Mr President, that you were wrong. As the agreement with Deloitte proved, the Ministry of Transport will no longer compete with JŘBU, because this contract was cancelled in the first instance. So the culprits are everyone and everything. But even if these absurd claims were true, as if they were not, according to my deep conviction, none of this could justify the Minister, I would say, out of clue, the search for blind roads and dead ends. Let's sum it up in three points that I want to document to you. Myth counselor. No need. I'm canceling the competition. I'm starting a state enterprise. I need a counselor. I'm concluding a contract. The contract's canceled. This is a 14-month approach on a tender selection consultant. How many and how many competitions are there? First, the prolongation of the existing contract for five years. Then five years and a new competition. Then three years and a new competition. Then 15 months, three years, and a new competition. And the last message from Tuesday, we'll get it out of hand. And the third is the dates of the new competition. And I've already quoted approved government resolutions here. This is not a criticism of the opposition. By the end of 2014. Until March 2015. By the summer of 2015. By the end of 2015. There's no deadline today. If the plans that the Minister has now come true, and I wish he would, and he says that the myth will begin to prepare, the great tender, when they manage to solve the question after January 1st, that means sometime at the end of this year. So after three years of the Prime Minister's government, we will be in the same situation as on January 29, 2014, when we were three years before the end of the tender and had three years to run the tender. And in December 2016, if it goes well, we'll have a tender for three years, we'll be three years before the tender is over, and we'll say we need three years for the tender. So we only moved it in time by three years. If you've lost your way in this mess of data, dates, manners of competition, I don't blame you. I feel that the Minister and many of us who are involved in the myth have also been lost in this. But I promised we'd propose a solution. I am very worried that there is no legislative instrument at the moment that will allow us to run the toll after 1 January 2017. The 52-million-dollar consultant's tender has been canceled with no time distress. I don't know if we can count on a billion-dollar tender, that's for those three years, out of hand, it won't be cancelled if the ten billion-dollar tender in the event of a long competition doesn't get the same fate. So I think that if we do, and I believe that we are all interested, then I think that legislative steps will be necessary to allow this to be prolonged. Just to the edge. The minister said how badly the contract was prepared ten years ago. I'm not gonna judge. By chance, he chose the same advisor, the same company that advised the state with the so-criticized 2005 and 2006. I don't know. Is he a good counselor? Or bad? In 2005/2006 he advised the wrong contract. Now he's supposed to advise us on a good deal. But that's just to the edge. [[9.50 hours]] I had a resolution, an even more general remark to the Department of Transport. [[unintelligible]] I really believe that this is not a typical political resort, a typical conflict of right-wings, a typical conflict of opposition and coalition or coalition and opposition, if you will. Sometimes it looks like what's gonna happen in five or six years is so far away. But it's a really short time in traffic. We are facing something, a term some experts use, and I will borrow it with their permission - we are facing the transformation of transport as a sector. Whether we like it or not, probably in 2022, which is six years from now, it seems awfully far away, it will end up with money coming from European funds. And we can say that we're 25 billion in the wrong year. and in a good year 40 billion. And who was better, and who was worse at pumping. [[unintelligible]] But since 2023, it's likely to be zero. Not 25, not 30 billion, not 40 billion. And the question of charging our motorway and road network is closely linked to the future financing of both maintenance, repair and development. And we have two options: either we don't do anything or we push it away, and I point out, all of us, now don't take it as a criticism of the government, and then it's going to be a shock and a leap, and it's going to be very unpleasant. Or together, we will look for a solution that would gradually solve something, which we, the citizens of the Democrats, are leaning towards. We are prepared to participate in such a solution, for example, in the Economic Committee. Because, as I was saying, the toll system, if we compete with it, and I believe it will be 10 maybe 12 years, which means that it's three, maybe four terms of office, that it's hard to pinpoint with the arrival of a new government just closing the tender. So it's not a question of one parliamentary term or two, it's not a question of one government or two, it's a question of responsible political parties that should prepare themselves for this problem. I hear an objection that the steering committee is functioning. So I'm just saying for myself, control is just by name in word. This group of people, no offense, serves to say: We put it there, they took note of it, and the material either changed the coalition board - to which it has every right, I want you not to say that I criticize it. It is normal that the key material of a political nature ultimately approves the leaders of the political parties. That's right, that's right, that's right. Then it is not that we are looking for a solution for 10, 12 years in some broad political agreement. I'm not complaining, I'm just stating the fact. I would recommend transferring the debate from the Ministry of Transport and its Steering Committee to the House of Deputies. We could set up a committee, I don't mean an investigative committee, I mean a job that we could invite external experts to. There aren't that many in the Czech Republic. There aren't hundreds of experts out of which we would find it difficult to choose who would advise us on this. Then any faction or membership club could send one person to look together for what we have to change legislatively in order for a contract to be concluded with someone from 1 January 2017. Because I say repeatedly, the competition, I'm talking about the big competition, it's supposed to be technological, neutral and fair. So it can't be for Kapsch, but it can't even be against Kapsch. If someone thinks that way and sees behind the debate about how to solve a particular firm, they think wrong and use the old Czech proverb "I judge you by myself." And it's not easy. I'm sure we can all agree on that. And when the minister says he's handling it, I believe him. I just think it's the team of people he chose as Cendis or the person who didn't know anything about the myth and led the team that it just wasn't happy. I will not propose these resolutions because we will not vote on them. If you happen to approve the program, I'll be signing up with a short speech where I have the resolutions. The first part of the resolution would call on the Prime Minister to implement, in principle, the crisis management of this project if we call it Myth 2017. Second, to set up together a commission composed of experts and representatives of political parties looking for a solution to the new toll system, perhaps even a question from 1 January 2017 and to consider financing transport infrastructure after 2022. Whoever's here, I can imagine those debates from the spring of 2023. You haven't pumped enough! We pumped a lot. You could have pumped more! We did everything we could. But the past and the past government underestimated it, misreaded it, and it was me who didn't know everything. But that's not going anywhere. This will not bring a crown into the budget for transport infrastructure in 2023. Of course, we can say and choose the easiest solution that always fills in the state budget. But that's not a realistic idea. Which one of you has ever really read the state budget - and we can argue whether the deficit should be 70 this year or 40, as we suggested - so just a $25 billion blackout is nothing that can be solved from year to year. That's what we wanted to call for. I firmly believe that neither the Minister nor the Prime Minister considered this to be an unnecessary criticism of the government when we analyzed the fact that in two years, despite the efforts of two transport ministers, we have not made a move. I have shown on specific data of government materials that the deadlines and timetables that they approve themselves, and according to my information, very often it was the proposal of the Ministry of Transport, which passed through the government, not that the government changed and shortened it, so that unfortunately we did not move anywhere. And really, that's why we called the meeting. Do we see significant legal risks that a contract may be signed from 1 January, but will it comply with the law? What argument will we use on JŘBU in the light of these data and these timetables? It's not that simple. That is why I say that together we should consider perhaps creative, perhaps unusual, but most likely legislative solutions. 'Cause I don't think there's an executive solution, and the risks are too high. And when I was talking about 25, 30, 35 billion for development, or more like maintenance at this number, transport infrastructure, so when we say the number of about 10 billion withdrawals, let's say 20 percent of it goes away, but 8 billion of net income, that's also a very crucial number that any government's budget doesn't cope with in any year from day to day. That on December 31st, you'll still have 800 million in a month, and on January 31st of the following year you won't be running again. So, without these resolutions, take it as an offer from our side that we are ready to participate in this, but not in the format of the current Steering Committee. Because, first of all, even if we wanted to vote, as I personally do not want to, because I said in July, the Minister did not choose a happy journey and I do not want to shine on it, because I do not consider the road to be happy, and today it appears to me that it was unfortunately true when the Ministry of Transport changed its position. But if it is on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, under the authority of the Economic Committee, that it will not be a force vote, that, logically, the coalition here has more Members and the opposition less. And if that's how we're gonna build some expert committee to deal with tolls, there's a vote to be made. And the opposition can lose the vote, so we're not looking for a result, we're just looking for a means to say, we acted, we didn't agree, somebody had to make a decision. That's right. We're offering that we're ready to participate in the job. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-040-01-000-000.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before we continue, Mr Šrámek's apologies for the whole of today's negotiations, for work reasons. And the Minister of Finance also apologizes for working reasons, from both meetings today. I ask President Laudát with priority rights and President Faltýnek will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-040-01-000-000.u8	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, for about six months now, we have agreed with our colleague Stanjura that we will approach this matter cooperatively. We have agreed with Mr Birk, Mr Šidl and others that we will monitor the situation regarding the preparation of toll collection after 2016 in the Management Committee as invited. I'm afraid I have to say, and today, and you know it very well from the galleys, my colleague. Through Mr President, we do not call on the Minister to leave. But I must say, if anyone started very unhappy, it was the Minister. I believe that this is not a problem, a crisis and a problem for the Minister, but a problem, a crisis and a problem for this entire government. There are a number of available, publicly available documents, which clearly show that since 2014, some of which Mr Stanjura quoted here, the government knew and had to know, all ministers, that electronic tolls are not solved in order to find solutions after 31. 12. 2016. That confused steps are being taken, confused statements on this, media firefights between the Prime Minister or some members of social democracy versus the Minister. [[10.00 hours]] But this is all just foam against the fact that today we face a situation that really under existing legislation it can happen that the Czech Republic can get into arbitration because of the Ministry of Transport, it can get into litigation, and one of the worst possible scenarios - it can get to the fact that after 1 January, already in 11 months, it will stop collecting tolls and, at the same time, it means some 800 or more million crowns of loss every month. I would just, since the Minister here has already started with a historical window, I would have told you a historical window from a significantly smaller past, it has fallen twice here, although in the case of the Minister's speech, he might not know things. However, together with the ODS a year ago, we initiated an extraordinary meeting of the House in order to set up a committee of inquiry, or to argue about another modification of the approach to the situation in the transport department. Here sat Minister Prachař, who was smiling blissfully all the time, perhaps the Czech Television would still find the footage. Behind my back, I have to say for a short time, there was Prime Minister Sobotka sitting here, not getting off, silent, the same, oddly enough, not even the Chairman of the ANO Babiš movement stood up for his minister. A few weeks, if I recall, then Minister Prachař is finished. Why am I talking about this? I was here to present some 15, 20 items where there were situations where apparently things didn't move, the toll was also one of those items. But I want to tell you if you think - you didn't let the agenda go. If you think you're morally not involved in the damage, one of the many items that were, was the arbitrary interruption of the reconstruction of one of the sections of the D1 motorway in the Jihlava area. What a coincidence. I pointed out that if you drive away without obvious causes, the climate conditions in the Highlands were reported to be worse, the second half of the highway began a week earlier on the 50th kilometer. [[unintelligible]] You know who goes there every day or comes from that county, so they know that there aren't such dramatic differences. Of course Mr. Prachař could not, virtually. His advisors, who obviously had some interests there, knew how cold it would be, that came very late, so there would be a huge time reserve, he wouldn't know. However, if someone deliberately interrupts this construction, then the question is that the construction company will probably want to compensate for the cost of having to either reschedule or fire the construction workers, take away the machines, then bring them back from spring to bring them back that something costs the construction site equipment, and not to mention that you've been bitter, or Mr. Prachař has suffered another motoring season last year. What a coincidence when I think the director of ŘSD Kroupa spoke on Czech television on Monday morning and he didn't say exactly the details, but I'm sure we'll learn about this during some kind of interpelation or my assessment of the state of the transport resort which I intend to process by the end of February that there are problems negotiating that there are so some price conjecture that the construction was interrupted. So you yourself bear the moral responsibility that you didn't allow to discuss at the time, co-responsibility and political co-responsibility for the damage, because for me nothing else, if someone completely unnecessarily intervened in a valid contract, supplier wanted to build it, all wanted to do according to the contract, you prevented him from doing so, or your minister, so you should be involved in compensating for the damage, the extra costs too. At least you're responsible. However, back to the electronic myth. As early as May or early June, I don't recall exactly, my colleague Stanjura informed me that we should go cooperatively to attend the Steering Committee as observers, then we also began to negotiate with Mr Birk and others. I met with Minister Took, who didn't have a problem with it, and then he did. We really wanted not to smash political points out of this, but to avoid this trap, which serves no one and which is now coming to. Unfortunately, the Steering Committee, I have to say that I have been there several times, sometimes, Mr Stanjura has already mentioned this, when he has called them for Tuesdays at 10 p.m., when we have a grémium, there are parliamentary clubs before the House meeting, we have pointed out, yet the practice has continued. But that's, let's say, a technical problem. What's the problem is that the board of directors doesn't run anything. It is a discussion club, a kind of mix, now politicians, experts, officials of the Ministry of Transport and others, where materials were presented at times late, sometimes ad hoc, then the practice changed, however, there was also the fact that materials for approval went to the government, for discussion, the steering committee had not had them before, so it returned to them. Nothing helped upset fellow Birke, my people and others. Some of the participants in the horror of evidently coming to trouble began to apologize. But I'm saying, I don't remember anything being voted on at any time on the steering committee. There is no vote, please, it is really a kind of consultative group. Perhaps no one, and you will not let the program be a colleague A trick or a colleague of Birke's might have said his observations and opinions here. But I hope no one dares accuse me of being destructive in any way. In vain I tried to tell them: Do an analysis of the Ministry of Transport, do an analysis of the commitment, do variants of crisis procedures, do not only accounting but also commercial estimation of the actual price of the existing system, do it, do it, do it. Some of it became, but many other things weren't done. Just the board of directors versus management, and I don't know if to say the word experts, but those in charge of it at lower levels at the Ministry of Transport, they were just two mimosas that don't meet. What's important is that there's probably no understanding that we're not planning any visions there, that we're dealing with a standard project, standard problems, or a non-standard maybe in some part, but that we can't play there. The language to which the documents submitted to the government are processed, so I say: The government is the main culprit for me, so if the government ministers had looked into it or their advisors, opinions, attitudes, they had to know that it was a return minus somewhere before 89 in that language. If we are on a specific project, there must be clear terminology, controllable names, controllable time sections, for example, which have a beginning and an end and are named. I would just quote a few things here to make you understand what I mean, and why I'm also helpless in this case, how to just push the project forward. The timetable submitted to the government is called the Time schedule for the implementation of the concept of the preparation of the electronic myth system after 2016. Please, that's a problem. Everywhere there's a concept, vision, preparation, preparation for preparation, but there's no concrete steps or confusion, it's standardized terminology. I'm sorry. [[10.10 hours]] So if I take the first item out of this time schedule - the agreement of a technical-organization consultant in the tenth month of 2015. This has already been discussed here by colleague Stanjura, it is generally known, this was the unfortunate contract that the UOHS recently said was not concluded in accordance with the law of the Czech Republic. The next item is ensuring the synergies of the general contractor. Just informally, I don't meet with any companies if I work in the civil service, for the state, but I know that Kapsch specifically sent signals that no one treated them qualifiedly or treated them at all. It would be quite interesting for the Minister here to say specific days and dates, who and how he acted, to show whose side it is true, what the subjects of the negotiations were, what the results were. However, I think it's chaotic. At some stage in the steering committee, it was that someone met someone, but the results were embarrassed. Maybe the negotiations aren't going well, I just don't know. And apparently, according to the procedure of further work, it doesn't work. Preparation of procurement procedures for the operation of an existing electronic myth system. What is preparation? Then I'll get ready. This way, if you build a schedule for any construction, it'll be prep, too bad there's no preparation and all that. These are items that you can then hide under. And as a result, we really are today, I dare say, at zero. Time runs, the Czech Republic ticks the clock, which they call 800 miles. Every month, and here's the preparation, the preparation. Opening of the procurement procedure. I'm gonna start again, but then there's a schedule, see if you can subtract the end of it. Of course, the terms as well as the vaguely formulated ones, the individual checkpoints fall like a house of cards. And they've been splattering all the time I've been watching it on the steering committee. I don't know if it's okay for the government to get the material, when it's taken note of it, there's always a lot of debate, if by taking note that you're already involved or not, I've been there many times at the level of self-government. So some of them were afraid to even acknowledge. The government has taken note of some of the materials after several delays, which means that you are persuading yourself from this, the whole government and Prime Minister, that you knew and had to know when you voted for it. From the material Information on the procedure of implementation of the Czech Government Resolution No. 693 of 26 August 2015 on the basic parameters of the procurement procedure, documentation for the procurement procedure for the operation of the electronic toll system after 2016. In Part B - Analysis of possible variants to ensure operations after 31. 12. It states: The agreement on the provision of services by a technical-organization consultant of 13 October 2015. The task was to analyse possible variants to ensure the operation of the electronic myth system after 31 December 2016, which would be based on the current state of preparation and, above all, on the knowledge of the issue. Now there are four variants. I'd like to give you a brief description of variant No. 3 - Extension of the existing contract for the provision of services related to the operation of the power charging system of selected roads in the Czech Republic. In addition, SOS, a distinctive name, with the existing supplier, including ensuring the implementation of the European electronic myth, European electronic myth service EETS and synergies in the termination of the provision or transmission of the electronic myth system. Then there's option number. 4 - Extension by SOS. [[Restlessness in the room.]] May I have a moment of peace, please? With the existing supplier in the current modification of this contract within the meaning of the adjustment, scope and price of transactions - blah, blah, blah. What I'm interested in is probably the government and ministers don't mind when the conclusions of the analysis are there and they recommend you, it says here that variants 3 and 4 are very risky, almost the most risky, but a little further is in the material that, for this reason, all the variants under consideration are at risk. This is a risk that cannot be excluded, while variants 3 and 4 have an extreme risk from this point of view. And another point: Mathematical calculation of factors entering multicritical analysis has determined the order of suitability of variants 4, 3, 1a, 1b, 2a and 2b. So that's exactly how materials work, how they're designed. I see a fundamental problem: Minister Ťok does not have a qualified and competent background at the Ministry of Transport, he has reached a dead end with external services, which would be the case for the Ministry of Transport, which is after the human genocide, and I do not blame him for it, but his predecessors, in a condition that he is no longer able to perform some basic functions. As far as buying projects and consulting services from outside, it just didn't work out, the UOHS canceled. Of course, we have also, and not only I, pointed out on one of the steering committees that the probability that the UOHS would not sanctify the contract with Deloitte is highly likely, the probability greater than small, and significantly greater. I believe that, as TOP 09, we have rejected further participation in the steering committee, which does not manage anything and which merely serves as a media cover for the fact that you are all there, you are all responsible for this, it is across the political spectrum, it is not our problem. I believe that the journey through the Economic Committee, through the establishment of a political commission on the Economic Committee, where the Minister would regularly provide information on the procedure, the implementation of specific steps that would have been preceded by not standardisation, but quite clear and specific with defined actions, with defined steps, with defined times of the timetable for the procedure, that at this moment it is the only possible way for politicians to see what is going to happen around it. When a journalist asked me yesterday what I had recommended in the past and what I would recommend now, I said: in the past, I said that it is likely that he will be able to write what the government did, and I think it was one of the first and last resolutions that I fully support, had his head and heel, and it was totally fair, it was a resolution by which the government imposed on the Minister of Transport a technologically neutral competition to collect tolls after 31. 12. 2016 says it's true. But it was pretty soon clear that the Department of Transport couldn't make it. I said that it would probably be viable for law enforcement authorities, politicians, Czech taxpayers, for the UOHS, if you take clear defined steps to prepare and publish the tender in the spirit of this Government resolution, and at the same time probably through a negotiated procedure without publication, parallel or at the appropriate time, but there must be some concrete steps clear and in accordance with Czech legislation, so you will extend the existing contract to gain sufficient time. This didn't happen, because from the point of view of the law, I don't know that there are any concrete steps such as the completion of the tender documentation, that the deadline for the opening of the tendering procedure is already announced, there is no such thing. That means that...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-040-01-000-000.u9	I'm begging the left side of the hall for peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-040-01-000-000.u10	This means that if the contract is now signed navivoko with the existing operator, whether it is some opponents who definitely wanted to throw themselves at this very attractive economic prey, or the authorities of the state, whether it is the ÚOHS, the SAO etc., they must say that the government, in turn the Ministry of Transport, will resort to steps that will not be conformed with Czech legislation. And what my colleague Stanjura said here. I really can't think of any other possible solution at the moment that would not endanger the impunity of the players of any further action than to come up with some completely absurd, but at the moment the only possible legislative instrument. I mean, a law that legalizes tolling after 31. 12. 2016. I can't think of anything else. However, I am not able to say at this point what it will do, for example. the European Union institutions dealing with the environment of competition, what it will do with the possible drawdown of funds, and not only in the transport department, etc. etc. It's gonna be so sophisticated a matter of what the law should look like, I don't know if there's gonna be thousands of bad aisles. Ladies and gentlemen, with experience of what has been going on since you did not agree to the agenda of the meeting a year ago and something in the situation in the transport department, I call once again on you to proceed to rational negotiations in this case, to allow people like Karel Šidl, Jan Birke and others who are concerned with the matter to be able to say their experiences, their opinions, and to allow them to speak. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-040-01-000-000.u11	Another one with priority rights to speak is President Faltýnek and President Kalousek will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-040-01-000-000.u12	Good morning, colleagues. I'm not an expert in the myth, unlike my colleagues Laudát and Stanjura, they probably understand it more than I do. Now I don't mean it wrong, but let me say a few words and comments about what was said here. I would like to disagree a little, but at the same time, please, through the President, Mr Stanjura, so that he does not respond, if possible, to the fact that history in this case is prehistoric and that there is no point in discussing it. [[Laughter from the right]] I do not personally think so, because all of us who have been interested in this problem know how the parameters of the myth operation were set from 2006 to 2016. And I'm not saying in that sentence that everything was wrong. But if I just quickly recapitulate how the whole thing actually happened, we know that in 2006 it was selected in a neutral tender for the best technology for our country. And then from the four offers was selected microwave technology offered by Kapsch. Three other candidates were expelled for some reason. But I'm not commenting. Just the state decided at the time that this technology is the most advantageous for our country. This technology works throughout Europe with the exception of two states, namely Germany and Slovakia, where satellite technology works. And somewhere, it works combined. As far as costs are concerned, we can discuss whether they are low or high. My personal opinion is that there are high costs of choosing a myth in the Czech Republic. I think there is certainly room for reducing these costs, whether it is a form of competition or negotiations with the existing operator. But that is the matter of the Ministry of Transport, which performs executives, not us as the Chamber of Deputies. In this I agree with František Laudát. For your information, the costs in Slovakia are about 50 percent, with us 20, in Austria 10. So we can compare what system in which the state of Europe operates. This technology was selected in 2006. Within ten years, technology, iron and OBU units reached state property at a cost of around 8 billion. Crowns. That's state property today. Unfortunately, what did not get into the state's property is the amendment that was closed to 8. 6. 2006, i.e. The whole rest, know-how, software, etc., unfortunately, didn't get into state property. The contract does not have a clear indication of the synergies that the existing operator is to provide to the State in the transfer of the system, which unfortunately is another problem, but we need to deal with this together somehow. I would like to thank you for the relatively substantive debate today. I was expecting a slightly different debate, and I'm quite pleasantly surprised that the debate is being conducted on a material level. And it would be good for the Minister to finally respond to some of the specific things that have been said here, because it seemed to me that not everything was 100% true. I may have one more thing to conclude my short performance. I received 12 November 2015 and maybe some of you also received another letter from the president of the ČESMAD BOHEMIA association, which is an association that covers carriers who drive on our toll roads and also pay to the Czech state, the amount is about 1.5 billion on their part. CZK per year, which is 18 per cent on the selected myth. And if I cut it short, I'm not going to read the whole letter, it's basically written to the Prime Minister, because they feel it's not just the transport department's problem, it's our entire government. In essence, they urge that the contract with the existing operator be extended for the necessary period of time and, at the same time, a neutral tender for the operation of the toll in the coming years. Whoever's interested, I can give him this letter. So that's just very briefly on my part. In conclusion, we cannot ignore the beginning of this whole matter, under what conditions and how the conditions for operating a myth in our country have been set for ten years, because of this, there is another procedure, as the conditions for operating a myth will be set for another ten - a colleague of Laudat or Stanjura here said maybe twelve, I don't know - years. This is then a matter of agreement not only of the government coalition, but certainly of other political entities here in the House, because it will certainly exceed the mandate of one, two, perhaps three governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-040-01-000-000.u13	Thank you, everyone. Have a good morning. And now, please, to the microphone with Mr Kalousek's priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-040-01-000-000.u14	Thank you for the floor. Don't worry, I'll try not to be longer than my previous speaker. But before I say what I signed up for, let me briefly respond to what President Faltýnek said, in order to respond to his consideration... He's screaming in my Faltýnek right now, so I'll wait.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-040-01-000-000.u15	Yes, Mr. Ambassador. I'm gonna ask for peace and please...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-040-01-000-000.u16	Thank you. To respond to President Faltýnek's consideration of the suitability of one or another technology. I'm not an expert in tolling, either, but I do know something about the economic recovery of these systems, and I know something about the thin interface between the toll system information system and the banking system that collects income. And that follows, and this is not my opinion, please, that is the basic alphabet, that the choice of appropriate technology must be preceded by the political decision which communication I want to charge in that state. Since we have two technologies allowed within the EU - one is microwave, one is satellite. And if the state decides, and it is only his political decision that only spinal communication will be charged, that is to say highways and roads of the first class, then it comes out clearly as more advantageous in terms of cost, but also the profitability of microwave technology. If we decide to charge the entire infrastructure, which is, of course, an interesting debate and I would like to lead it sometime, how we would abolish road tax and stamps and replace everything with a performance charge, but that doesn't belong here now, then clearly the satellite technology is more advantageous. That means making a decision about technology without the political decision I want to charge is simply a mistake, because I can choose for the less advantageous technology, because I don't want to charge everything, and vice versa. So let's be clear about this. But I would like to sum up the vast exposition of my previous speakers, ODS and TOP 09 club presidents, to discuss what the government has managed to do over the past two years. In those two years, she was able to do that in 2014 she unsuccessfully tried to compete with the project manager, nothing else succeeded, and in 2015 she failed to launch a selection procedure without a project manager, resulting in a contract for a project manager without a selection procedure, which is not only in my opinion, but also in the final opinion of the ÚOHS, which was a step contrary to competition law, and we will therefore wait for a final decision. But that's all that happened in two years. In those two years there has been a selection, which we can successfully doubt, the project manager, plus the project manager, who was the project manager of the tender in 2005, which is in direct conflict with what sometimes sounds that the tender in 2005 was messed up, so why, if I think so, choose the same manager and enter it without a tender when I think the tender was messed up. Or maybe the tender wasn't messed up, then I choose the project manager because he has excellent and unrepeatable experience, but either one or the other. He can't pay both. That's what I'd like to hear about what's really going on. However, so far, all the discussions that are being held are logically conducted on a priority attempt to secure myth income from the New Year so that there is no blackout. That is undoubtedly the number one priority. However, the Chamber of Deputies should also address the transparency of this process from the point of view of its control over the Czech Government. And the chaos that takes place in two years, including that one single step, which is probably contrary to the law, I see as being problematic in at least three steps in terms of transparency and law. Firstly, the irreparable approach to Deloitte in the context of a procurement procedure without publication, where therefore there is decomposition at the ÚOHS. The Ministry of Transport has already been fined, but the Minister continues the process, which has been wrongly declared illegal so far. Secondly, a step that has already been announced that by 1 January the contract with the existing operator will probably be concluded again under the JŘBU regime, and here I point out that this will be the same problem from the point of view of competition law. The time pressure that this is likely to justify is hard to defend in the face of the fact that this fact has been known to the government for two years and the government has had two years to make a fair tender and has also bravely claimed that for a relatively long time. The last time the Prime Minister told me this was in our television show, that, of course, within the timetable, it is expected that a fair competition will take place. I'll take a front row ticket for that, if it makes it to New Year's Eve. So that's the second problem. And the third problem is that if it is to take place in New Year's competition, which I do not believe, how is it possible that a member of the government is dealing with one potential participant in this tender at this time and asks for a written offer. I mean, now we're dealing with Skytoll. I find it hard to find an expression other than the word scandal, because if the Ministry of Transport wanted to have some reference offers, then at least it should be so careful that it would turn to a number of other companies that are potentially able to give such an offer, whether it's Autostrade or Asfinag or whoever, but one with exclusive negotiations? No matter how and at any time, the selection procedure will always be covered and will always be called into question by this exclusive meeting of the Ministry of Transport with one of the potential candidates, and there will always be questions as to why you conducted exclusive negotiations with one single in the process of opening the selection procedure, and you asked him for a written offer. This cannot be called a transparent process! So please, we have three moments here: free-handed Deloitt's assignment, without legal reason, endangers us with a free-handed assignment of Kapsch for reasons that we do not defend before the law, because there was quite a lot of time for that, and there was definitely nothing unexpected that the government could not know, and exclusive negotiations with one of the potential candidates for the future selection process. Three moments where we should really think together about whether we have not already found ourselves on the edge of an area that is commonly called plotting against a public competition, and whether these machinations are caused intentionally and purposefully, whether the government or the Ministry of Transport has put itself on purpose to justify a free-hand assignment, or whether it is a simple incompetence. One or the other is nothing flattering for the government, and it certainly has nothing to do with transparency, and it certainly has nothing to do with the electoral slogan of the political party that is responsible for the Ministry: Yes, we will just do it. Looks like you're really setting somebody up, but I'm sure it's not the public and the taxpayers. That is why I believe that the agenda for this meeting should be approved and that the extraordinary non-transparency and dangerous non-transparency of the government's actions in this case should be addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-040-01-000-000.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now, please, another application with the priority right of Minister Took. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-040-01-000-000.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to a few things that have fallen, and I must say that I am always and always surprised at how the sentences taken out of the context and the sentences built as I want can be interpreted in such a clear matter as the myth is. I'd like to respond to one thing. Here, my predecessor at the Ministry of Transport, Mr Stanjura, through Madam President, has said a lot of things that are not entirely true. He was putting together government materials plus newspaper articles that were never authorized. I'll try to comment on a few things. First of all, yes, at some point in the beginning, when I was in office for about two weeks, three weeks, I said that we needed to see if we really needed a counselor or didn't need one. We don't need a counselor, he said "Ťok," and then he wanted it, there's a little fabulation that I don't think is true and there's no argument at all. Second issue - state enterprise Cendis. Cendis, please, has never been founded for a myth. I never said that. That it was speculated and written in the same way by some journalists even from the newspapers that you say are not hostile, so unfortunately it is true and that is how it works. To shed light on this, Cendis is primarily a company that was created by the transformation of a former waste business, and it is intended to take over IT contracts and assist in the Ministry of Transport's IT procurements. That means it's not a business that's primarily designed to solve a myth. It's never been founded like this. That there was a man who helped with the myth and that we paid him through this organization is true, but it's completely different. And then I'll get to the next thing. Yes, there are timetables that this government - or the Ministry of Transport - has submitted to the government and the government has approved them. But if you read all the resolutions honestly and well, all of them are bound by one absolutely fundamental matter that I tried to explain here at the beginning and which is unfortunately true, whatever you do with it, and that is that the existing provider will give us synergies. And we have, ladies and gentlemen, two choices. Either the existing supplier will provide us with synergies and then we can do a lot of things, and I say it when it comes to the fact that the synergy isn't completely simple, or it doesn't give us synergies, and then we have a big problem. That means our schedule was based on getting synergies. We've been talking about synergies for a long time, and unfortunately, we didn't get any further. I remember well our conversation with Mr Stanjura when he said - compete with the big competition and then you can move on. I told you back then - I agree with that. I would say that we have a competition to a large extent prepared, without the essential thing that we lack, and that's the synergy. I can't move without cooperation. And if I don't define how one system goes into another, how I take these steps, the competition will be for the cat. Because even if I make a deal, I won't do it without these steps. And here I'm going to quote the words that came out here: there are processes that last five to six years. Yes. There are such processes at the Ministry of Transport, and this is the preparation of, for example, a toll system if I don't have synergies and build a system that runs in parallel with this and just covers it. But in that case, the opening of such a tender four years ago was too late, or so it could be done. I'm ready to put out a competition with me agreeing to cooperate, but without synergies, I need that time. And that time was taken from us in 2006, when he said - then you have to make a deal. If I'm the supplier of a myth that has to agree on how to hand it over to the next one, then I have a gold talon in my cards and I can play it. I just want to respond from this place to other things. Please, let's use the word transparency as it is. I am convinced and want to prove that the Ministry of Transport is following transparency in all the steps it takes. Saying a meeting where one of the suppliers who doesn't want to or doesn't say that he wants to compete in a competition comes up with a specific offer to deal with the current situation, and I'm going to ask him to specify it without telling him that he wants an offer? As an attempt at competition is, I would say, a nice bonmot, but it is very, very far from the truth. The same thing I think isn't at all about us making excuses for the time pressure, explaining why we're taking Deloitte as a consultant. We're in a technological inadequacies here, and we don't have a chance to announce a competition without any interaction with the existing supplier, or possibly. We have very little time to put it out with his inaction. And that is the basis of our proposals that we had. So that's it for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-040-01-000-000.u19	Thank you. Another registered with priority rights is Mr Kováčik, whom I do not see in the hall at the moment, so I will give him another priority and that is Mr Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-040-01-000-000.u20	I didn't want to. Thanks to the program, I don't want to perform three times and pretend we're having a debate if you don't allow the debate. But the Minister once again said, he is convinced that the 2006 contract is bad, and I am not fighting it, I just don't want to deal with it, and at the same time he says he chose the same company that prepared the contract for the state. Can't you feel the contradiction? I can feel him. He can't pay both. Or then you say it depends on who the minister is. When he was Šimonovský, the company did it wrong. And if I'm me, it'll do the right thing. It doesn't seem relevant to me. But the Minister said in his speech what we differ from one another, and that is not a political thing at all. I believe I have said this repeatedly, Minister, that you have believed the theory that we cannot compete without an existing operator. And I'm actually convinced that's not true. It's more complicated than that, I admit, but it's just not true. And if we make this problem and build it that way, and your advisors tell you that, that's true, then we're in a disadvantageous situation. Because as the other side behaves logically, which ends the contract in 11 months, which we say: So we're going to do a tender open that you can lose because it's fair, but in order to let it go, you have to give us something. Preferably your know-how. Or if you don't give it to us, we need to sign with you directly. I guess that's a pretty simple choice. Everyone defends their interests, legitimately. I'm not gonna criticize a private firm for defending its interests. But if you build it like this, if you help us and give us part of your know-how, you'll definitely get a contest. And if you don't give it to us, we'll be forced to extend your contract. So what's the reaction? I don't think the problem really stands that way. But it's not a matter for the House of Deputies to go into the details of the IT solution and we were wondering what could be used, what could not be used. The idea that some at the Department of Transport have that any company will hand over the source codes to the software is misguided. No company with its IT system will ever do that! That's a really blind road. And you can negotiate that for a year, two, three. No matter who the minister is, it really doesn't matter. This isn't gonna work. We have to count on the state to give the assignment. And so far, I've heard that you want to extend it. That means you've already decided politically not to expand the charging circuit. That's the first step that we're talking about the papers and the correct statements. I read that you told the press, I believe it's not an authorized sentence - that Stanjura didn't do anything at all. It's not true. It's just not true, but it says so and they quote you. I said I was quoting from the paper, and I know what the risk of unauthorized, misrepresentation, displacement is. But I didn't save my comment until after the whole two-year annabáze, when your movement is headed by the Ministry of Transport. And it seems strange to me. Today, I'm going to read in the monitoring - your predecessor, not three in front of you like I did. Your predecessor from your political party, or political movement, says: everything was ready, Took a stop, today's Hospodářské noviny. [[10.50 hours]] So, ladies and gentlemen of the YES movement, is that normal? Or is it drawing up what I'm saying, the cluelessness, and always one step forward and two steps back? But I offered the debate, we're ready for it, but really, the debate is so detailed that it doesn't really belong behind the microphone. Here we should say when such a fundamental position or say yes, we are interested, let's have the debate on the board of the Economic Committee, in the working group and so on. That's the only way we're gonna get anywhere. But the delay that is growing every day is really based on the conviction of many people and the Minister that we will not move without cooperation with the existing supplier. I don't think that's true, and I'm ready to debate it for hours and hours and talk about this, but not here, there's really no room for that. But then, I'm gonna go back to the question at first -- what's it gonna be like if you give that choice to the supplier? If you help us, we'll compete and you can win if you don't help us, we'll extend it. That's a bad position for the state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-040-01-000-000.u21	Thank you and please now with Mr Kováčik's priority right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-040-01-000-000.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good day to you. Before I begin, I would like to make an account of the satisfaction, of a certain satisfaction of my honourable colleague, Faltýnek, who has said here that he is pleased to welcome the debate that is going on. I don't think any of them even started. In order for a full debate to really be possible, there must be an approved agenda. I welcome the fact that this meeting, even if it had not already started officially, has been convened at all, because the KSČM has been monitoring this issue for a long time. Even at the time of the tolling system we had a different view on which to use the system. We advocated it, true, we were in a minority, and I am increasingly convinced that if we did not have to deal with these problems at the time, we did not have to ask questions about František Beneš from the KSČM club, who is an expert on satellite systems, not only regarding narrow myth specialization, but satellite systems in general, so today we did not have to be at a high cost, and I think that together with the public quite legitimate questions, if there will be any myth in the Czech Republic after 2017, or since 2017. 'Cause so far, it looks like nothing. I take the liberty, very briefly, to sum up history, because I do not think, unlike perhaps some previous speakers, that all the blame of the world falls on the head of Minister Took, although he is a minister, is a minister for some time, he is in the government that we, as opposition, are criticizing. However, in order to be really objective, it is necessary to know the history and I will try very briefly to sum up the history, to poke some crucial moments out. The beginning at all was the beginning of all the problems. Minister Šimonovský and contracts for the delivery and operation of the myth signed in March 2006, there is a fundamental problem that no provision has been made for the transfer of the system to another provider after the end of the existing contract. Furthermore, additions to this Treaty, which set out precisely that certain essential infrastructure matters would not be owned by the State. Contracts are made in such a way that it is very difficult, if not impossible, to change in any way that the components of the system have become foreign property without compensation to the State, that other additions have been concluded for the State at least, to put it mildly, that the difference is not solved, for example, the authorisation to occupy toll gates of all tolled roads, for which the building permit will acquire legal power by the end of 2017, but the service contracts are effective, about operation, only until the end of 2016, and so on. These are certain doubts about the method of selection of the supplier and the tolling operator of the system. This is the weak position of the state, i.e. the Czech Republic, then in the contract concluded with the consortium Kapsch. These are the doubts that we expressed at the time, unfortunately we did not have the strength to reverse it at the time, we did not convince. And maybe that's a thing that stretches through history like a red thread. The coalition, led by Jiří Paroubek, ruled with the Minister of Transport Milan Šimonovský of KDU-ČSL. The House in the next parliamentary term, during the coalition's reign after the leadership of the civil democrats, responded by setting up a commission of inquiry which stated partial misconduct in respect of formal administrative procedures, but did not press any specific accusations. All participants in the selection and preparation of the contract as if suddenly suffered a loss of memory, certainly before the commission. There was neither a rebuttal nor confirmation of the suspicion of tailor-made public procurement for a specific company that implemented microwave technology, and the contract was signed at a time when the delivery and commissioning deadline for the system remained the same, i.e. 1. 1. 2007, which meant a relatively very high risk of failure to meet the deadline by the supplier company, but also by the state when changing the time fee for the power plant. This situation in itself caused the need for changes to the Treaty, which were gradually implemented in the form of the amendments that I mentioned at the outset. Just to remind you, so far these additions are 85. For Minister Aleš Řebíček of the ODS, the first four additions were closed, which responded to the range of charging and delivery of toll system devices. Supplement from 27. 12. 2007 was allowed to continue the construction of the equipment for the microwave toll system even after the termination of the service contract. That means 31. 12. 2016. Other amendments to the contracts for the provision of services and the supply of equipment were related to the efforts to gradually take over the toll system by the state, but without proper legislative anchoring the way of the new charging in the legislation of the Czech Republic. All the government ministers Mirek Topolánek took part in it without any significant effort - this is ODS, KDU-ČSL and the Green Party, just to remind you who ruled this place, Jan Fischer's official government, ODS, ČSSD and Green Party, Petr Nečas, I remind you that it was ODS, TOP 09 and PEOPLE and Public Things, maybe some of us still remember Jiří Rusnok, which was the administrative government, and Bohuslav Sobotka, which is the government of social democracy, YES 2011 and KDU-ČSL. The amendments to the agreement with Kapsch always responded at the last minute to the needs of operation or supply of microwave equipment and, unfortunately, none of the governments were able to set the conditions and carry out a transparent tender in time for the operation of the toll system after 2016, when the contract for services with the consortium Kapsch ended. It has been adopted, repeatedly, by a government resolution with different levels of strength and quality. These resolutions remained only formal measures, without the Ministry of Transport's response. I will now try to recapitulate the activities of individual transport ministers who could deal with the situation of the tolling system after 2016. Minister Bendl of the ODS was only four months at the Ministry of Transport in January to May 2009, apparently not much could break in that short time. [[11.00 hours]] Minister Gustav Slamečka in Fischerův's government, this is May 2009 through July 2010. This government, as an official, did not change the system or the rules because it did not have the necessary mandate from the voters. We remember all Minister Bárta of Public Affairs in the Government of Nečasův, ruled in July, i.e. Minister Bárta, 2010 until April 2011. After all, without clearly defined transport goals and government mandate, he began to prepare a new toll tender. However, it was replaced by Minister Šmerda, who ruled at the Ministry in April 2011 only in June 2011. Of course, he couldn't break much, either. It was replaced by Minister Dobeš, we also remember well, in July 2011 until November 2012, and the Government issued Resolution No. 492 out of 4. 7. 2012 where she entrusted the Minister with the toll system with the following tasks: until 30. 11. 2012 prepare a proposal for charging vehicles over 3.5 t and preparing the tender for operators after 2016. The Minister held, founded a working group, which, in cooperation with Deloitte consulting company, started work on materials Development of electronic myth system in the Czech Republic and material Construction of road charging until the third quarter of 2013, the target option of charging after 2017, until the fourth quarter of 2013, to select a project manager, by the end of the fourth quarter of 2014, to announce a competition for the delivery of a new toll system. Following the resignation of Minister Dobeš, the material was not submitted to the Government because the deadline for implementing the Government's resolution was postponed until 31. 3. 2013. Then Minister Stanjura from ODS joined. We also remember that we do not need to remind the government of Petr Nečas, only in time - December 2012 - July 2013. Minister Stanjura asked for an extension of the deadline for the task to be completed by 30. 6. However, 2013, he failed to fulfil the task because he was replaced by Minister Žák in the administrative government of Rusnokův, who joined in July 2013 and served until January 2014. He submitted this material with an annual delay. This material only led to the formal fulfilment of the Government's resolution. It was the charging of roads of the first classes in variants, where the Ministry of Transport did not recommend either. The Government of Jiří Rusnok adopted Resolution No. 919 out of 4. 12. The 2013 resolution contained roughly the following: Preparation of technical and organisational solutions for the future power charging system after 2016. It was never fulfilled. The introduction of the European electronic myth service without delay until 2016. Unfulfilled, Minister Ťok reportedly stopped the project according to the media. At the same time, she ordered the Minister of Transport to 31. 12. 2013 announce a tender for the project manager of the electronic myth system until 2017. Unfulfilled, tender announced up to 8. 6. 2014. Until 31. 12. 2013 submit a proposal for the composition of the Management Committee for the preparation of the tender documentation for toll system suppliers and electronic toll service provider after 2016. Unfulfilled, the proposal was made by Minister Prachař in April 2014. By 30. 6. 2014 submit to the Government for approval a draft of the basic parameters of the procurement documents for the selection procedure for suppliers and providers of electronic toll services. Unfulfilled, no proposal has been made to this day. And finally, by 30. 6. 2014 process the evaluation of the impact of the power charging regulation after 2016. Unfulfilled, no one has prepared the material to this day. Minister Prachař in the Sobotkův government, i.e. in January 2014 until November 2014, terminated cooperation with the company Public Procurement, s.r.o., which was brought to the Ministry of Transport in connection with the myth by Minister Žák. In February 2014, he started preparing the project manager, announced the competition in June, the management structure of the project is the Management Committee, the government approved in April 2014, the Executive Committee, members were appointed by Minister Prachař. During the selection procedure, certain serious errors occurred, such as the late appointment of members of the evaluation board up to one month after receipt of the tenders, the exclusion of two tenderers, after their appeal were again included in the selection, substantial changes in the conditions during the competition without extending the deadline for submission of tenders, a complaint was lodged for the review of the contracting authority's procedure at the ÚOHS, administrative proceedings were initiated. Minister Ťok in the Sobotkův government, i.e. since December 2014, has decided to cancel the tender for the project manager. This makes the preparation of the project a myth again at a point zero. Moreover, we will probably never know how the administrative proceedings at the UOHS would turn out and whether the competition would be cancelled. Minister Ťok inherited the Office in a situation where he does not have sufficient personnel capacity to carry out further myth selection operations after 2016, and therefore a tender was carried out for a technical organisation consultant, which again became Deloitte, a maximum price of 52 million. Kč. The UOHS challenged this competition and the Ministry of Transport is now in a very difficult situation due to the shortening deadline for the termination of the toll system contract in the Czech Republic. The Ministry of Transport proposes the distribution of the provision of the toll system after 2016 in two steps. The first step is to secure the operator of the current microwave system for the years 2017 to 2020, and the second step is to prepare properly the competition and contract for suppliers and operators of technologically neutral tolls after 2020. We must say that despite this effort, there is very little time for the system operator's tender after 2016, and therefore the government will discuss the extension of the contract with the Katsch consortium for a period of two to three years. If the Ministry of Transport does not want to lose the daily yield of the power charge, which is about 25 million. CZK, which represents 750 miles a month. CZK and up to 9 billion a year. CZK, so it needs to be really, but really work day and night. Everything I have said has one goal - to show on the facts how individual governments of the Czech Republic wasted the entire period of validity of the ten-year toll system operator service contract, so it can be said that they resigned to the further existence and development of the toll system after 2017. I am convinced that it is necessary for the agenda of this meeting to be approved so that all who have something to say in this regard professionally can express their views. And the only question that we need to find a common answer very quickly, and here I would agree that if an executive solution is very difficult, if not impossible, then we have to look together for a legislative solution, and that question - will be at all and how will the myth be selected in the Czech Republic after 2017? I am convinced that there are not many more important tasks if we want the Czech Republic to continue the toll system, however legal, legitimate and transparent it is, in any way. I apologize that my speech was somewhat longer than you used to, but it was considerably shorter than some other speeches. Have a good day, everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-040-01-000-000.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, please, with Mr Laudát's priority right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-040-01-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been talking for two hours. I would be interested in any exit from this, because we assume it is a pity, I would quite welcome it if a colleague of Mr Faltýnek or a colleague of Mr Sklenák came forward and said clearly whether or not he would put this point into the discussion. Otherwise, we will break up, so you will bear moral responsibility, Coalition Members, for not having allowed discussion, that you have not agreed to an agreement, an agreement on some steps on the House's ground, which would somehow be involved, as my colleague Stanjura or I have recommended here. [[11.10 hours]] I say again, in the situation in which the Steering Committee is, there we do not see the possibility, or I do not personally see the possibility of cooperation for the TOP 09. But the way things are going down here, I'd like to hear if it's going to be built by the Department of Transport - or by the Prime Minister, for whom it's probably no longer a problem, so he left, I'd like to hear from him, or you should hear the words of how he's going to proceed, whether he's going to force a crisis team at the Department of Transport that's really gonna start running the project. With all due respect, the Minister is too kind to be a crisis manager as I know him. So I just appreciate that it's very communicative, unlike its predecessor, but it just needs sharp elbows to solve this problem. I am just pointing out another thing, and since I wanted as many Members with priority rights as possible to appear here, I also point out that today it is simply in the position that the Ministry of Transport will have a very big problem getting the experts concerned. I would just mention, for example, the name of Professor Moos, who also escaped in the horror of what was going on, from the advisory sphere or from the management committee. There was an incredible story, so if the Faculty of Transport ČVUT is simply doing analyses, does not, there was total chaos and misunderstandings, so it does not, does not participate and it can actually happen that the Ministry of Transport will get into a situation other than companies that understand everything, and so they were also in the here criticized start of electronic myth in 2006, before it and probably some after I also read from some speech by the Minister, so maybe they are the only ones who will then advise you. But real experts who didn't go in any previous project, and they're really experts in their field, so they're running away and they don't want to participate in it, because it's really a lot beyond the law, what procedures you're probably offering or what you're considering doing. So I would really like the Prime Minister to speak here, because I was clearly saying, and I insist that the government bears the primary responsibility for the situation, because given the information and the discussion, she cannot say that she did not know. She must have known and knew. So I just insist that the Prime Minister - if he's not worth $800 million a month, I'm really just saying that if this project goes down, then it's up to the government to resign. I believe that not to collect 800 million a month is sufficient reason to put an end to this government with shame. Here we are arguing whether the innkeepers will simply pay for beer and will have to admit a minute, a few seconds after a beer in Upper Lower or in Suché nad Mokrou, and on the other hand, the Prime Minister is simply silent on the problem of the resort, where there is a threat of damage to a huge extent. Just backwards. I believe that the Czech Republic made a mistake when the preparations for the selection of the electronic myth began in 2004. I think we should have copied, even though he was dealing with huge problems at the beginning, a satellite system from Germany. Unfortunately, I regret that the government then did not even respond to offers for the conduct of German Chancellor Schröder Schröder and eventually went its way. Officials of the Ministry of Transport, some of them there today, have done enormous moral damage by mocking the local system, which has been tuned up in Germany, can do a lot of things, could be done with transport policy. However, today we are in a different position, someone has decided this, I can only sigh that he has made this decision. To make matters worse, we are a country that is essentially the homeland of Galileo, so here we have this system. Professor Moos, I too, tried to put Minister Took in a position to actually write the tender, so he - his problem is that he was afraid to write off the about 8 billion that were invested in those gates that I think someone should be responsible for why this system, but that's another thing. I thought, and I believe, that it was possible to write despite the problems despite the prolongation supplement, that Kapsch would build toll gates on roads that aren't even there yet, and only have 31. 12. or 1. 1. 2017 building permit or "dealer" and that it was possible to write a fair tender, because the point is that it should have been written so that they would simply be on the recipients of data from those tolled communications. And to do that was to be offered in my opinion: here we have the property that we will take over, here are these restrictions that are based on these perhaps endless additions, or especially that one, we control this, we don't control this. And I think that in this we were in agreement with the professor who also said: What you are still discussing here, write the tender on the data collector, the data collector on the roads, that is, when who, how and in what tonnage drove there, because it is also according to European wishes to separate the myth processor for the future, the one who will simply collect from the person who makes the data. So I'm sorry. However, I would really like this House - not to be a chat, but to have any outcome. I want to ask whether someone here will say relevantly from the coalition's representatives, if he is - and I don't want the commission of inquiry, I don't want the investigation groups - but the working group will be on the floor of the House, probably on the floor of the Economic Committee or not. Well, at least say something, what do you want to do in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-040-01-000-000.u25	Thank you. At this point, all the preferential rights have been so far. Now, for the tape screen, please. With substitute card number 11, Mrs Kailová votes today, from today's meeting between 10 and 16 o'clock, Minister Chovanec apologizes for work reasons. We should now proceed to the vote on the proposal for a 40th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I'll call my colleagues from the lobby, I'll sign you all out, and I'll ask you to re-enlist with your I.D. cards. We will therefore now vote on the proposal for a 40th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 2, to which 130 are registered, for 57, against 55. The motion was rejected, and so I'm ending the 40th meeting. We will continue the next meeting at 11.40 and that will be the continuation of the 39th meeting. [[Dissenting voices from the diaper.]] Sorry, 11:30, sorry, 11:30.
