ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-002-068.u1	68. Government bill amending Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts (Act on Medicines), as amended, and Act No. 234/2014 Sb., on Civil Service, as amended /German press 706/ - first reading The Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček will also present this proposal under the authority of the Government. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-002-068.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am here again, this time with another proposal. Therefore, let me briefly mention the proposal under discussion for an amendment to the Act on Medicines. The proposal submitted pursues two main objectives. The first is the adaptation of the EU regulation on clinical trials of medicinal products for human use. The second main motive of the proposed law is to establish a mechanism for limiting the so-called reexports of medicinal products to ensure the availability of medicinal products for patients in the Czech Republic. As far as the first heading of the adaptation is concerned, the proposal therefore regulates the issues which are required by the European regulation to adapt to the Member State or is empowered by the Member State to amend it. The aim is to ensure that the legislation in the Czech Republic appropriately completes the clinical evaluation regime for medicinal products for human use established for the whole of the European Union by Regulation No. 536/2014. As part of the proposal, a new ethics commission established at the State Institute for Drug Control is thus constituted, where it is in particular an effort to ensure the independence of the ethical commission in accordance with the requirements of the regulation. Under the current legal state, ethical commissions are created within individual health service providers. For this reason, the independence of these commissions in relation to ongoing clinical trials may be called into question. Furthermore, the proposal sets out rules for the functioning of this ethical commission and its activities as well as other related conditions for the authorisation and implementation of clinical trials in the Czech Republic. The second key point of the amendment to the Act on Medicines is, as I have already said, the modification of the possibility of restrictions. reexports of medicinal products from the Czech Republic abroad. The purpose and purpose of the proposed measure is that due to economic interest on the part of distributors of medicines, there is no shortage of medicinal products for the needs of patients in the Czech Republic. A system of monitoring and evaluation of the situation on the market for medicinal products is in place in the Gesture of the State Institute for Drug Control. Those medicinal products for which it will be found that due to their volume on the Czech market, there could be a shortage of such medicinal products in case of reexport, will be included by the Ministry of Health on the list and for such listed medicinal products there will be an obligation for distributors to notify their intended distribution abroad to the Station of the Institute for Drug Control. He will assess the situation and, if he finds it justified, submit to the Ministry of Health a complaint for the issue of a measure of a general nature which will restrict or prohibit the distribution of the medicinal product concerned outside the territory of the Czech Republic. In the meantime, from the notification to the decision of the Ministry of Health, but for a maximum period of 15 days, the prohibition of intended distribution abroad applies to distributors. It should be stressed that the incorporation of the system of restriction or prohibition. reexports of medicinal products from the Czech Republic abroad do not conflict with European law and the principle of free movement of goods. In the sense of the exception contained in Article 36 TFEU, this is a proportional, exceptional and not an area measure to be used in cases relating to specific medicinal products to protect the health of patients in order to avoid a lack of medicinal products for the provision of health services in the Czech Republic. In view of the above, I would like to ask you to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-002-068.u3	I thank the Minister. I now ask the rapporteur for the first reading, which is Mr Rostislav Vyzula, to take the floor. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-002-068.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The Minister has basically said the essentials of this amendment. I would only say a few such reasons why this amendment is also important. It may be no less important than the previous one, although of course it is something else. The main objective, as has been said, is actually to ensure the adaptation of the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the question of so-called. clinical trials in medicinal products for human use. What does that mean? It is a sort of union with Europe, where these tests or these tests are being carried out, and it would be uncomfortable if our researchers, our doctors, did not have the opportunity to do such a clinical trial and actually participate in this European research field, because it is a question of prestige, even in our country, that we can do something as challenging as clinical trials. And that we can do that, we know that very well. And she's not just a question of prestige, but it's also a question of ultimately financial, because if we're still talking about whether there's enough funding in the health sector or not, then if we have a chance to explore some clinical or human medicine, we're actually getting it from the entering company gratis and there's a number of patients available. There are tens, hundreds of them. Only in one institution, our Institute of Oncology, where we conduct about 50 such clinical trials, so we have about 700 patients a month in these clinical trials. And that would fit us basically, and I think it's quite a big deal. Next is the question of the report. So reporters, we know it's a popular theme, and any drop of the drug on the market is immediately muscled onto the reporters. This is probably not a very serious matter, because given that there is free movement of goods around Europe, we cannot ban such a thing as reexports. But what is important is that, and this amendment could partly address this, is that distributors will actually be obliged to do so despite the fact that they will report to each other to any extent, but they will also have the cure for our patients. Especially for our patients. It is a thing that could eventually attract them to re-exports, because there are some of the cheapest drugs in Europe, perhaps only Croatia and Greece have less expensive medicines than we do, and therefore it is offered that every entrepreneurial spirit immediately rushes into medicine. [[16.50 hours]] It is, of course, also in the interest of the companies that are here in our Republic to avoid reexports to a large extent. So, on the one hand, the SÚKL report, on the other hand, from distributors, on the one hand, from registration holders, on the other hand, from pharmacies, will lead to the product being placed on the list, as stated, by the Ministry of Health. However, this situation is not addressed by an acute drug outage. Of course, this can happen for any reason, for example, that the company does not have sufficient production capacity, it does not have any ingredient that it obtains from Central Africa or the Far East, it simply cannot produce the cure. This, of course, is a more serious matter. And I would also stress here the role of the SÚKLU, which would obtain the information, monitor the situation and try to have an event. find ways to provide the drug depending on how important it is. Of course, it is different when it is a life-saving antibiotic in resistant tuberculosis, or a common antibiotic in common angina, which is a few options and can be replaced. One of the important things that this amendment is still dealing with, and I think it has not been fully stressed, is that cooperation between the SÚKLEM and the Directorate-General of Customs will be strengthened more effectively in order to identify counterfeits. It's not a simple matter at all. I'm begging you to make fakes. There are also such wise guys who want to make money in the world. Recently, we had - I think it was last year - the situation of a drug that was supplied from India, and it is a matter that the European Commission is also dealing with. It is a matter that can directly endanger a person's life, and of course we do not want that. So I'd like to sum it up. From what I hear, you're not really interested, but it's only the first reading, so I understand that you're not completely under your skin yet, and I believe that we're going to move forward. I would strongly encourage us to pass this amendment on to the Health Committee for a further solution, because there are things that we would also like to fine-tune. It's not 100%. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-002-068.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate which Mr Jiří Skalický was the first to enter. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-002-068.u6	Good afternoon. Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the amendment to Act No. 378 about drugs. As has already been said, this amendment was intended primarily to address the transposition of the EU Council regulation on clinical trials on medicinal products for human use. In addition, SÚKL and the Directorate-General for Customs are working together to identify counterfeit medicinal products. Here I would like to confirm the rapporteur's words that we will definitely meet this issue in the near future, because counterfeits are a problem, and that is currently being ordered over the Internet, or the network of public pharmacies is fine, so far counterfeits are not getting through. The third, perhaps the most discussed topic is the issue of addressing the threat of acute non-accessibility of medicinal products for patients in the Czech Republic, in other words the restriction of reexport or parallel export. Shortly to clinical trial. The aim of the clinical trial is to ensure that the relevant legislation appropriately completes the conduct of clinical trials of medicinal products for human use based throughout the EU based on constant common rules. One Ethics Committee with several groups was chosen as the most appropriate option to be set up as an advisory body of the State Drug Control Office. This is quite a fundamental change from the system that is being used, and it can certainly be the subject of further discussion on the committee. Other matters relating to clinical trials are essentially forced by the fact that, in general, there is a trend of EU contracting authorities to individual clinical trials within the EU, and thus the possibility for patients in the EU to bring more modern treatment a little earlier, a few years before the product is registered is reduced. So the EU's attempt to restore an attractive environment for clinical trials is quite clear and logical. One of the tools to do this is, of course, the establishment and subsequent functioning of the EU portal and the EU database, which should also be covered by the European Union. What interests me in this section is the number of increases in the workforce of the SÚKL staff, and that is 32 if I have followed this well, and the question is whether this is an absolute increase, or whether the increases do not include members of individual groups that are scattered around the Republic today within the various ethical committees. I would then ask the Health Committee to define it precisely, it's nothing dramatic. As far as counterfeits are concerned, as I have already mentioned here, this really is a problem for the future. Here is merely a specification and definition of the institute of ensuring and preventing medicinal products and identifying counterfeits so that they can be handled. Again, I would point out here that there is a defined increase in the working time for the performance of the new agendas under the SÚKL by 34, and it is therefore a question of whether it is within some kind of movement or whether it is again an absolute increase. The last topic, which is probably the biggest, is the question of reexports or parallel exports. I would very briefly explain to some colleagues how this situation could have happened and why we are dealing with it in this way. We know that the reason for the report is a different setting of prices for individual medicinal products in individual EU Member States, so that the Czech Republic has really one of the lowest prices and in neighbouring countries, especially in countries like Germany, prices are up to tens of percent higher in order. So the disbalance of the environment merely encourages drugs to be exported and sold in Germany. How did this situation arise? It was created sometime in 2006, 2007, 2008, when Law No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance, when there was a fundamental change in the price and payment system in our health care, the role of SÚKL was significantly strengthened in the form of revisions and accelerated revisions. It was accepted that prices that were set in this way in the Czech Republic were compared from the three cheapest countries within the EU, so-called. Baskets of three countries, and therefore logically in the Czech Republic price decreased. [[17,00 hours]] So the basic principle and the idea of having cheap prices and low remuneration, i.e. To save money from health insurance, it was actually the right thing to do. In the past few years, the price level has clearly remained at a relatively acceptable level. There was no increase, however, the result was that there was a slowly rising reexport due to the fact that we have really one of the lowest prices for medicinal products throughout the European Union. The actual report currently amounts to over CZK 6 billion, so it is not quite small numbers, with so-called. the risk report, i.e. the re-export of such medicines that can really cause problems, their lack in health care in our country, amounts to over three billion, namely 3.1 billion crowns. In fact, this problem increased dramatically and escalated between 2010 and 2013, when one of the amendments to Act 388 was implemented. There was a partial restriction of pharmacies with a distribution permit in the chain. However, this was a small part, and as it turns out, it was not practically effective or very little. So the question today is, who's involved in the report? The answer is all of them. All who play a role in the chain of medicinal products movement in the Czech Republic, i.e. Marketing Authorisation Holders, including manufacturers, distributors, pharmacies with a distribution permit. And now for his own novel and the solution proposed by the Ministry of Health. As the Minister has already mentioned, this is a very close cooperation between the State Institute for Drug Control and the Ministry of Health. I consider this method to be administratively quite complicated and demanding, because if you have listened to the Minister, this means that the Ministry of Health and the SÚKL provide information several times, at least two measures of a general nature are being taken and time-limits still have to be followed. So yes, it is a journey, but in my opinion it is a path that is really complicated and can sometimes be bypassed, because of course there is the possibility of different appeals, assessments etc. However, it is a path that is in line with European Union law on the free movement of goods. I have yet to find out how countries close to the Czech Republic, namely V4 countries, deal with this issue. Hungary. There is only one institution, the State Institute for Pharmacy and Nutrition, which addresses this issue under some defined conditions, and even the amendment to the Act in Hungary allows a general ban on all, not selective. It's selective in our country. As far as Slovakia is concerned, Slovakia approved the legislation it has in 2013. There is also the State Institute for Drug Control again. And there is an obligation to report any intended exports, or not only a certain part. As far as Poland is concerned, there is an amendment to the Act on Medicinal Products applicable last year 2015, where the so-called Act is defined. The chief pharmaceutical inspector and he really out of his jurisdiction and office under any conditions is able and obliged to decide whether or not to export the drug. So you can see that unlike us, where there are two institutions, there is one institution everywhere. As far as other countries are concerned, as is the example of the United Kingdom - double prices, I will explain what it is. Spain - double prices. This means that if the drug is for domestic patients on the domestic market, then it has a different price, significantly lower. If any institution, distributor wants to take it outside, it has set rules and must export it at a significantly higher price. That's called the double price question. So that's how these countries protect their internal market and their drug prices for their patients. As far as Germany and Scandinavia are concerned, there is quite an interesting situation that I confessed not knowing very much. These countries, Germany and Scandinavia, on the contrary, because prices are very high there, so they benefit from the fact that prices are low in our country and, on the contrary, hospitals and pharmacies are bonusted for getting cheap medicines from the Czech Republic, which is quite an interesting situation. They, of course, reduce their health costs. Thus, an assessment of this situation and the issue in question from the perspective of the amendment of the law. As far as pros are concerned, there will certainly be cases where this situation would arise acutely and selectively in the case of selected medicinal products, so it will not be superficial. Market regulation will only be provided where it is concluded that health can be endangered. Subsequently, this may lead to improved health care provided. It is certainly a significant narrowing of the space for reexport, but it is not a 100% solution, because, as I have already said, every administrative path, and especially if it is complicated, can simply be bypassed. If there are shortcomings, it is indeed an administratively complex and challenging process that is complicated. There is always a way around this system, and in some cases distributors can complain about overregulation, but I wouldn't see much for lack. For our membership club, we will definitely propose that this amendment be passed on at first reading to the relevant health committee, where certain changes and adjustments can be expected, but conceptually it is one of the ways to deal with this problem, to whether large or small amounts will be dealt with by time. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to introduce you to another solution of principle and philosophy, which I believe is possible and which I believe will not be close in the future, but perhaps far away, could solve this problem. As I have already mentioned, the basic problem is that the prices of drugs are low in our country and in the surrounding countries, especially in the west of us, are high, which therefore supports the reexport. This solution basically and philosophically consists of three areas that are interconnected, interlinked, and one without another would have no meaning and no logic. Briefly, I'll just describe them here for your information, both professional and general public information. Step number one is that there will be an adjustment, at most in the Czech Republic, to adjust the maximum prices of medicinal products selectively, for the most endangered medicinal products, essentially to the level of the countries of the European Union, such as Austria, Germany, etc. Secondly, as this remuneration or these prices will shift, there will be an adjustment to the increase in payments from health insurance companies, so that the difference between price and payment is still the same for our patients. This means remuneration, the difference was the same, the payments did not increase, i.e. I don't want the drugs to get expensive for our patients, either. The third step related to this would be that health insurance companies as payers, in order to avoid an increase in expenditure, would be able to take the form of back-up bonuses, so-called. paybacks, which are common in a number of countries, conclude contracts, called. risk-sharing contracts, with the relevant manufacturer or supplier, so that the increase that would arise for health insurance will be returned to health insurance, to health insurance companies, and therefore there would not be an increase in health insurance expenditure. I am aware that these steps, which seem too complicated, could solve the problem of reporting, because there will simply be no difference between prices between the Czech Republic and the surrounding countries. [[17.10 hours]] As a benefit, I see that the construction of these three steps linked together is the easiest economic option. It respects the free movement of goods within the European Union and the medicines will be, because no one will re-export them, there will be no reason to re-export them, so they will be available for Czech patients. In addition, the problem of pharmacies will be partially solved, which will be worth more in the same margin, so that their income will rise and we will not have to solve complicatedly the question in some localities, especially small and medium pharmacies. Like everything else, this solution also has shortcomings that I would like to mention here. It is that this concept does not take into account the current legislation in force in the field of public health insurance. It would have to be an extensive intervention and regulation into Act 48 and, in general, a change in philosophy and the strategy of the current setting of the principle of prices and payments, which would have meant a broad consensus not only at the level of the government but also at the level of the Chamber of Deputies. I am aware that at present this philosophy is essentially unacceptable, unacceptable, but I would like you all to see that it is one of the possible paths, and perhaps sometime in the future, this problem can be solved and simplified in this way as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-002-068.u7	Thank you, Mr Skalický. I now see the application from Mr Hovorka's post, because I have no other written application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-002-068.u8	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, this law aims to ensure sufficient medicines on the Czech market, and I am not sure that the law, as it is written, will effectively ensure it. I believe that the basic problem is too complicated a system for setting prices and paying medicines, and often the system, and the pressure on the price is so high that at some point in time the medicine will reach such a level that it is no longer worth delivering the medicine to the Czech market. And this law is an attempt to prevent reexports. I am not quite sure that it is possible to effectively prevent reexports from being presented in this way. Let us ask ourselves a few questions about the cause of parallel exports of medicines from the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-002-068.u9	I, my colleague, will interrupt you and ask the House for peace! The noise level is so high that I don't know if a stenographic record can be made without errors under these conditions. Really, if you're discussing anything other than the Drug Act, please be in the foyer. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-002-068.u10	Thank you, too. The reason for the report is that pharmaceutical companies keep double prices on the European market. In rich countries willing to pay, for example in Germany, they sell medicines expensively, in countries less willing to pay they sell the same medicines much cheaper. Reexporters buy drugs at Czech prices and sell them with great profit in Germany, for example. Generally, reporting is not illegal. Membership in the European Union assumes not only a common market in which it is free to buy and sell. European law even prevents states from defending the free movement of goods, setting restrictions on exports and imports. When reporters make money, at whose expense? Reexports are mainly harmful to pharmaceutical companies as they rob their shareholders of part of their profits. The drugs that the manufacturer sells to the Czech Republic only with a small profit are then found on the German market and suppress the medicines that the manufacturer would otherwise sell there with a high profit. The high price level in Germany thus does not benefit the producer, but the particular company of the reporter and, to some extent, German patients, because the reporter generally supplies imported drugs a little cheaper than direct export from the producer. Why do we want to stop reporters when they're legal? What do we care about shareholders in a farm company? If the reporters are not prevented, one of the two effects will occur. Either manufacturers will stop supplying cheap drugs to the Czech Republic so that they do not spoil their prices on larger and richer markets, or they will only be willing to sell them at German prices so that they do not pay off. Who can report drugs? When we look at the applicable legislation, legal reporters can be persons with a distribution license, pharmacies and other health service providers can not. However, statistics suggest that drugs from hospitals may be re-exported, even drugs intended exclusively for specialized care centers. Criminal case Hospital Na Homolce showed that state hospitals buy non-transparentally, without proper tender via court distributors, in the case of Homolka it was a subsidiary of Holte, a.s. In the famous diary of Director Dbalý appeared a note: Muse reexport. Translation of accepting a bribe for a reexport. It is therefore possible that the medicines already purchased by the hospital were exported, which was clearly illegal, or that the medicines bought for the hospital were exported by Holte's subsidiary. Now let's ask ourselves if the proposed law on pharmaceuticals will prevent reexports. The problem is that only exports of irreplaceable drugs can be banned because of the rules of European law, and the law does not describe exactly what irreplaceability means. But it's probably not the way to ban drugs that are scarce, but there are other medicines on the market with the same active substance, so-called. generics or biosimilars. According to the proposal, even a whole group of medicines can be declared irreplaceable, but a ban would only be possible if none of them were not available. Moreover, the Ministry will probably not want to be included in the list of irreplaceable too many medicines, especially if they are expensive. This would have a significant impact on payments favourable to patients but unfavourable to the state register. The cure declared irreplaceable would be in the so-called system. the reference groups could not have a remuneration set up according to the cheapest medicine in the group, but for its irreplaceability it would have to have a set remuneration separately, usually as a full payment without a surcharge. Is there a shortage of drugs in the pharmacy related to the reexports? It seems to be loosely related. Among the ways manufacturers try to prevent reexports are so called. limited distribution models. Delivery directly to the hospital or directly to a specific pharmacy. In such a case, the manufacturer supplies drugs via one selected distributor, sometimes only to selected pharmacies such as hospitals or those belonging to the distribution chain. However, there is discrimination between pharmacies and patients, and it is an abuse of the market position of the producer and the selected distributor, which unfortunately is not sufficiently affected. The ban on reporting will not solve this problem because it is a problem of the Czech market that is not related to export. How, then, can we provide enough medicine for all patients at favourable prices? Our system is set up so that drugs don't get to the patients from the manufacturer directly, but at least over two intermediaries. From the point of view of the insured person, it is desirable that the medicines covered by the health insurance should be supplied directly, so that between the manufacturer and the final buyer, who are insured, the taxpayers, there are as few intermediates as possible. Large savings can be made by buying paid drugs directly into pharmacies and hospitals, as competitive competition for a mass contract will allow the manufacturer to push the bidding prices as close as possible to the actual cost of production. [[17.20 hours]] Direct purchase will limit the possibility of intermediaries, especially distributors, who could export cheaply obtained medicines to more expensive countries, especially if the ownership of the paid drug is transferred from the manufacturer directly to a pharmacy or hospital, which may not be re-exported. Because, for example, in the Netherlands, these medicines tends to save up to 90 percent of the reduction in prices for health insurance companies there, savings could be used to significantly improve the availability of treatment for seriously ill patients. That's my recommendation to this law. I assume that there will be a discussion and an effort in the Health Committee to adjust this law in a way that will benefit our patients and our health system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-002-068.u11	I thank Mr Ludwig Hovorka and ask who goes on to the general debate. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? No. The rapporteur? Yes. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-002-068.u12	Thank you, Mr President. A few things to conclude, after all. First, as rapporteur, there was no motion to dismiss, that is good. I think that the whole series of questions that have been raised here are for the Health Committee, so I believe that the Guarantee Committee will be elected by the Health Committee. Just a few things to comment on. Dr. Skalický mentioned clinical trials and their tide. We're actually picking up the tide of clinical trials offered to our hospitals and our researchers. These are all foreign companies, which is a shame. If we don't adapt to modern times, that means personalization, genomic profiling, genomic banks, etc., we'll also be somewhere on the edge. Furthermore - very well said by Dr. Skalický that there is no 100% solution. This is really hard, the reexport cannot be banned because it is the free movement of goods around Europe. I'm still stressing this - I don't really care if they're doing this or that kind of re-export, but most importantly, they have to make sure the drugs are available to our patients. Otherwise, it doesn't matter. , Then I liked the idea of risk-sharing and cost-sharing. This is really an established method abroad and it is such a sharing financing of very expensive medicines, for example in our oncology. Normally, it's in Italy when an insurance company pays the drug up to a certain level of consumption, up to some limit, and what's above that limit is the pharmaceutical company. Interesting thing is that abroad is possible, in Italy it is possible, in Spain, in France it is possible. Why can't we? Then again, what Mr Hovorka said. Yes, I fully agree with that. Too complicated a pricing system. Imagine that the cost of a drug in Germany will fall or grow, and it is still the same with us. Nobody cares. Administrative proceedings are very lengthy, problematic. Furthermore, Mr Hovorka says - reexports damage pharmaceutical companies. Don't worry about the pharmaceutical companies being damaged, please. They are very careful about their sales options and their sales in our country. They have better data than we do. Then I liked the fact that really the Homolka and Director Dbalý example, that they do drug purchases without a selection procedure, that's just completely wrong. And that should be done. In conclusion, we will definitely solve the rest in the Health Committee. I support that the amendment should be passed on to the Health Committee for further resolution, and I think it is common time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-002-068.u13	Thank you to the rapporteur. As he stated, the motion to dismiss did not fall. Nor did the application for repayment of the proposal submitted to the applicant for completion. We can therefore consider proposals on the commandments of committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Health as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone else have a guarantee committee proposal? It's not like that. We will take the vote. Since I've asked that the discussions be in the foyer, I'm going to unsubscribe you all and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. I'm gonna run the gong, and when the number of entries is settled, we're gonna decide on the guarantee board's commandment. Who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee? We will decide in the vote the order number 411, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 411 from 132 Members present for 131, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order this proposal to the Agricultural Committee as a further committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? Yes, Mr Svoboda, then Mrs Pastuchová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-002-068.u14	I propose a committee on European affairs in the light of the issue dealt with in this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-03-ps2013-044-09-002-068.u15	Yes, the Committee on European Affairs. My colleague Pastuchová had the same proposal, so she does not claim the floor. Okay. So we will now decide on the commandment to other committees. The Organizing Committee proposes that the Committee be directed to the agricultural committee as the next committee. We will decide in the vote the order number 412 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of the agricultural committee. Who's against it? Thank you. [[There's a lot of noise coming from the right side of the hall, the President is asking for peace.]] Voting order number 412, from 135 present for 46, against 64. The motion was not accepted. Now, therefore, a proposal for a committee on European affairs. We will decide in the vote the order number 413, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 413, from the present 135 for 84, against 16. The motion was accepted. I note that this press has been ordered by the Committee on European Affairs as another committee. The time limit for discussion has not been proposed for extension, so we have nothing to vote on. I can therefore end the first reading of this proposal. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur, and I conclude with this item number 68. Before we go any further, I will read the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Augustin Karel Andrle Sylor, Minister Herman, apologizes from 17.30 pm for the reasons of the ministry and from 17.30 pm to the end of the day, Mr Karel Pražák apologizes. According to the approved agenda, we will continue with the item
