ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-002-154.u1	154. Government bill amending Act No. 141/1961 Coll., on Criminal Procedure (criminal Code), as amended, and Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended /German press 458/ - third reading From the rapporteur's table, I would first call on the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán to state if he is interested. He's not interested. I will therefore state that the motion for rejection and amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 458/4, which has been delivered to you on 12 February 2016. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 458/5. I am now asking the rapporteur whether she wants to speak or not in the debate before the debate begins, Madame? Not until the debate. This is how I open the debate and Mr Martin Plíšek is the first to sign up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-002-154.u2	Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we have another proposal that allows companies or entrepreneurs to be punished more widely. It's a bit of a follow-up to the previous House press. The amendment to the Criminal Code contains three relatively unrelated passages, and I would like to focus on the part of the press that introduces the criminality of the preparation of the tax reduction crime. According to the petitioner, better detection is to be achieved by this adaptation. carousel fraud involving significant VAT reductions. There is no objection to this intention, and it is often mentioned here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, practically in every speech, the Minister of Finance. But carousel fraud is so complex, sophisticated criminal activity from both the point of view and the presence of an international element that it has to be dealt with specifically, not that the Ministry of Justice decides suddenly, without any discussion with the professional public, that it will include in the Criminal Code a tax reduction offence. Changing regulations all the time, it's really... And I insist when the Minister says he doesn't know what the concept of systemic - nonsystemic is, so I think this is a nonsystemic approach, as well as successively small amendments to constantly amend the criminal code. This proposal does not specifically aim only at the carousel fraud, because the petitioner included in the draft the criminal preparation for the reduction of all taxes and similar charges. Of course, in the case of tax cuts, the term "preparation" can be very difficult to imagine. Where does the boundaries of normal tax optimization considerations, the logical objective of which is not to pay high taxes, end and where does the threshold for the preparation of a criminal offence begin? Will the new plan and preparations to reduce the tax obligation be sufficient to initiate criminal prosecutions for the preparation of tax reductions? Will the filing of a normal tax return also become a confession to commit a crime? The proposal put forward does not give satisfactory answers to these questions. This may seem absurd, and I firmly believe that the courts will not accept such arguments in normal cases, but a certain entrepreneur will have little to do with a possible release judgment if, as a result of several months, but usually several years of prosecution, he loses his clientele, and hence his livelihood, and he has to put an end to his business. So it will have a vanquishing character for businessmen. When we discussed this matter on the Constitutional Legal Committee and with the participation of other colleagues from practice, it was accepted that the investigation and prosecution at the trial stage of this crime was virtually not very used and somehow failed or did not have the necessary results. I therefore ask why the introduction of preparations for tax reductions is to produce appropriate results. For this reason, the TOP 09 MEP, unless an amendment has already been tabled to eliminate the criminality of the preparation of this proposal, which is one of the amendments, we have a problem supporting this proposal and then we will not support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-002-154.u3	I thank Mr Martin Plíšek. Now in the debate, Mr Jeroným Tejc. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-002-154.u4	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for the support of the resolution of the Constitutional Committee as a whole, but I will stress just one passage to know what we are voting on, and this is Section 159c. It is a special provision on the temporary suspension of criminal prosecution. I'll only read a part of it because it's very long and very complex, so only about two sentences should suffice to understand. In a proposal submitted by the Ministry, respectively. a new provision is written: the police authority decides to temporarily postpone the criminal prosecution of the suspect if the suspect has provided or promised a bribe, property or other benefit only because he has been asked to do so, has voluntarily and without undue delay notified the prosecutor or the police authority and has notified the facts which are known to him. I think from a certain point of view, it's a breakthrough. On the other hand, it is probably a breakthrough in a direction that could help detect corruption, and I have nothing against it. On the contrary, I support that, if someone is asked for a bribe and subsequently responds by promising a bribe and turning to the police or the prosecutor's office to document this corruption act, then it should certainly postpone his possible prosecution, which would threaten him. On the other hand, I cannot imagine, whether for moral or practical reasons, that the person who is asked for a bribe will promise him, pay him, then turn to the police or the prosecutor and demand impunity under this provision. I think that people who already provide a bribe should not have that advantage for several reasons. First, at the time the bribe is handed over, the police are very difficult to prove how the negotiations took place and, for example, they are unable to have proof that the specific amount has been transferred. On the contrary, if the person promises to hand over the bribe, he will notify the police, then the police, with the consent of the person, can document the negotiations very well and on the basis of its information. In the event that the proposed amendment is adopted, the wider one, which means that the one who has promised the bribe will also be the one who has not only promised it, but also gave it, so it will not be able to be recorded, there will be great disputes about whether all the conditions are actually fulfilled, that is, whether the bribe has been asked for, whether the bribe has been handed over at all, and, moreover, it will also lead to possible abuse, because the announcements will also be made by people who, while claiming that the announcement is voluntary, but at that point they will know, for example, that certain actions have been carried out and that it is very likely that the police will come for them. So in view of the experience that we have from a number of questionable cases, and also the fact that I think it is morally wrong for someone who directly gives a bribe to pay, to be found innocent, virtually. it has been decided to suspend the prosecution temporarily, it is proposed by the committee, and I fully support that the delay should be possible only if the suspect has promised a bribe, not handed it over. I mean, in the vast majority of the cases we're talking about, it's not a case that could actually happen without the person giving the bribe having time to contact the police. I can't imagine anyone being asked for a bribe of 100,000, 300,000 or several million crowns and pulling them out of the bag on the spot and giving them directly. Surely this is preceded by a longer period of time between which he has the opportunity to contact the police, and that is the goal that the law should fulfil. That means when someone is asked for a bribe and promises to hand over a bribe, they are to contact the police or the prosecutor immediately and they are to act and, above all, provide evidence. If this amendment is adopted in an extended version, I fear that it will do more harm than good, because the police will not be able to obtain the necessary evidence and will create a number of questionable cases, and it will rather be to the detriment of investigating corruption on this serious economic activity. Otherwise, I must say that I support the law itself. I think, from the point of view of preparing tax cuts, it certainly was a point that was questionable. We, too, have proposed some changes in this matter as a committee so that, for example, there is an increased limit on damage. I think that this is an adjustment that could help the proposal as a whole to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-002-154.u5	Thank you, Mr Jeroný Tejc. Mr. Marek Benda reporting from his post. We are still in the debate at third reading. I ask the House for peace. Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-002-154.u6	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to return briefly to the warning of the vote on paragraph B, which is precisely the release of the crime, virtually. preparations for the tax reduction crime, and I would very much ask this House to consider whether it wants to support this proposal. I don't think this is disturbing the entire government bill, but that the idea of going into the tax area to the crime of preparation really means a dramatic increase in criminalization of almost any business in the Czech Republic. All that is referred to by the Ministry of Finance, virtually. The Justice Department and the government, the carousel shops, that's all in the trial phase. There is no problem prosecuting the moment it happens when the money is actually collected. There's already an attempt. Preparing for tax cuts. At the time when the new criminal code was being discussed, I fought very hard for it on the House's soil, so that we could have as little preparation as possible, really with the most serious crimes, even crimes against human health, integrity, the security of the state and these serious things. All preparations in economic crime are an extremely dangerous phenomenon, because some negotiations, and business negotiations are happening after all a lot and especially in the area of tax cuts, everyone is simply trying to invent to pay the State as little as possible. I think it's perfectly logical. And if he doesn't cross the rules, if he doesn't steal something from the state, I think it's his absolute right. [[11.00 hours]] I don't want to take away my money, which I made honest money. I don't want to take them away from the state. It seems to me that this is a perfectly natural attitude of a man. And that effort at all costs to get into criminal law to prepare for tax cuts will only result in many more criminal prosecutions at this very stage of preparation, which in the vast majority of cases will not result in criminal convictions. They're just pre-ops, they're just news in the papers and on TV. Firms, natural persons will be dehonested, that maybe they wanted to cut short, that they took their tax returns, something somewhere. Most of the time, the courts will not condemn it because they will say: the deed did not happen, the preparation did not have the intensity. We all know for sure both natural persons and legal persons is liquidation if this public campaign runs against them. I ask very much that, regardless of whether this is a government proposal, you consider whether you will not support point B, that is, releasing preparations for tax cuts to be added to the crime so that the preparation of tax cuts is no longer as it is today, and it does not cause any fatal problems, it is not a criminal offence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-002-154.u7	I thank Mr Marek Benda. I'm asking who else to debate. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. Before we go any further, I will read two apologies received to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Šarapatka apologizes until the end of today for reasons of work and from 12 o'clock she apologises for family reasons until the end of today's meeting day Mrs Jana Hnyková. Now I ask the Minister for the final word. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-002-154.u8	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, just a brief response to some of what has been said here. First of all, about the preparations for tax cuts. The first thing to say is that we have had 20 years of criminality in the preparation of tax cuts and none of the phenomena we are now warned about have occurred in all those 20 years. So even for this reason, it seems to me that it's painting the devil on the wall. It is, however, the painting of the devil on the wall and in content, because if there is any impression that if I come to ask my tax advisor how could I pay less in taxes, that I will therefore be making preparations for this crime, it is a false impression. We understand the preparation of the actual preparation of concrete steps towards committing a crime, namely a conscious, deliberate violation of tax obligations. So there's no way this is some kind of advice or a meeting. Add to that, it is also forgotten that according to § 20 para. 3 of the Penal Code if someone himself abandoned the preparation and removed the danger that arose, that would eliminate the crime of the preparation. So if I go to the tax advisor, we'll actually set up an illegal criminal scheme, and then I'll go home, and I'll think about it, and I'll say, "it's actually the last time I looked at Parliament, so it's nice the way those MPs are doing it, so I'll pay them back," so that's when the crime went away. As far as effectiveness is concerned, it is not true that we are able to effectively prosecute carousels, but not only carousels, but also forgery of various stamps and so on, in time if we cannot prosecute preparation. The point is, then, that the very moment when the preparations go to the completion of the crime, which the mafia structures implement extremely quickly, sometimes even in the order of hours, and that the law enforcement authorities cannot deploy operational means of searching at the previous stage, they are not able to respond effectively. So for this reason, we believe that the preparation here must be criminal, or it needs to be criminal if we want to fight those crimes, and that all the hardened dangers are odd. Then I will take the liberty of responding to what my honourable colleague, Mr Tejc, said about effective regret in corruption. We as the Ministry have - and it is rare and exceptional - a different opinion than the constitutionally legal committee. We want effective remorse to be maintained even where no bribe has been handed over. On the contrary, we think that this is where we need them, because where the bribe has not yet been handed over, it could be argued whether the crime has already been completed by the notifier, because the condition of effective regret is that he has not provoked it, but that, on the contrary, he has been asked to do so. So it's a situation where he came to, like, some office, they said to him, "Well, if you pay, it'll work." And he said, well, I'm gonna go get my money. And he's going to the police instead. In fact, we would probably be able to cope with that without the effective regret, because we would say that he hasn't actually done anything wrong. We need to address precisely those situations where it is too late, when he typically, given that the situation required immediate action, was caught drunk at the wheel or something, so he actually committed the crime and actually handed over the funds. Even here I am not afraid of abuse, because experience teaches us that, on the contrary, people who are exposed to these situations, and even where they refuse corruption offer, do not report crimes in fear of consequences, because they are well aware of the evidence situation, the weakness of the evidence situation, the fact that it will only be investigated for a moment, nothing will be proven by the majority, because the police would be in a very difficult position there, and eventually it will all turn against them. koneckonců all, let us remember some of the media-known cases concerning the Chamber of Deputies. So for this reason, I think we really need to motivate those notifiers, those whistleblowers, to the max. And that possibility, that promise of impunity, if he goes to the police immediately after committing the crime, seems to me to be an incentive appropriate and not unethical. Again, I stress once again, this is a situation where the person was passive, when the other party was urged to give a bribe. So in this situation, he provided a bribe, but on the way out of that place, basically, or in the drunken morning, when he was sleeping out of it, he turned to the law enforcement authorities. [[11.10 hours]] We, frankly, without this institute, without this effective regret, are not in a position to really fight this type of corruption, or, in general, with a larger part of corruption, because by the fact that there is double criminality, that all those involved are in danger of being punished, so nobody will ever come to the police. Unfortunately, police statistics testify to that. So even in this case, please support the original version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-002-154.u9	I thank the Minister for his final word. Now, the final words of the rapporteur, Mrs Válková, will be prepared by the rapporteur, Mr Laudát. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-002-154.u10	Thank you. Dear colleagues, my dear colleagues, I would just like to add to what has already been said in relation to the fear of introducing the criminality of the preparation of the crime of tax reductions and charges. This is according to Section 240 of the Criminal Code, when the amendment adopted by the Guarantee Constitutional Law Committee increases the threshold that must be achieved so that such conduct can be regarded as criminal, from the original 50 thousand, which was a greater damage according to § 138 para. 1 criminal law, significant damage, which in this case is at least half a million and higher damage and is still related to the organized group. So I am not afraid that this negotiation could criminalize entrepreneurs who are innocently going to consult on tax optimization and cross a certain line of such consultation. They really can't do that, even if they wanted to become perpetrators of such a crime, or suspected of such a crime, when at least half a million or more damage is required, and even more, in conjunction with an organized group operating in several states. So that's one thing, and the other one that the Minister was talking about here, so I would just underline - we're essentially going to vote here if we release the word "granted" about narrowing down the proposed institute of effective regret. And when we hear, on the one hand, still concerns about the criminalisation that some of us Members are supposed to support, we have the opportunity here to extend the institute through the institute of effective regret so as to include all the so-called needed persons, which means those who will give a bribe, but they will immediately realise it, as has been said, and they are going to announce, thus gaining the chance to obtain the bonus of law enforcement authorities and possibly to avoid a conviction for such a corrupt offence. So the narrowing that Mr Tejc is proposing here is, of course, one of the possibilities, very legitimate, but if we agree with it, we are narrowing down the original institute of effective regret and we are losing it to one dimension which I think would be effective in practically re-establishing in our criminal law. Because he's been here before, even in a different form. So then we'll add what was said before we go to the vote. Thank you, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-002-154.u11	I thank the rapporteur for the Constitutional Legal Committee, Mr Helena Válková, and now Mr Laudát, if he wishes to speak for the Committee on Budgets. [[He's not interested.]] He's not interested. So we can start with the voting procedure... [[Mr Stanjure is reporting.]] Sorry, sorry, sorry. Yes, I'm registering the application of the chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-002-154.u12	I would like to call on the Minister to open the debate. Because, once again, he used unfair tactics when he did not speak in the debate, so that colleagues from the constitutional committee could respond to his final word or his arguments. It's unfair. It's unfair. If you speak in the debate, they might argue with you. They can't argue like that. I beg you to open the debate so that those who have taken up the matter in detail can give counter-conceptions to you. If you don't, it's pretty simple. It's just cowardice. That's all it is!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-002-154.u13	Mr President, there is nothing I can do about this, because, of course, the Minister has the right to the final word, or each applicant has the right to the final word. The way he gets it is his business, and whether or not the Minister is willing to perform is really his business. So, if we have nothing else, then we will first vote on the motion for a rejection, and then I would ask the rapporteur to put together individual amendments and prepare the vote on the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-002-154.u14	So first, we will vote on the rejection of the proposal that was made at second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-002-154.u15	Okay. I will sign you all out because I would like to find out the exact situation in the House. Please log in with your ID cards. On the proposal that fell at second reading, to reject the bill, we will vote in the vote order number 383. The number of entries has stabilized. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 383, from the present 156, for 35, against 109. The motion was not accepted. I therefore ask the rapporteur to tell us what the procedure proposed by the Guarantee Committee is, to present various amendments, to give us the opinion of the Guarantee Committee, and to ask the Minister for an opinion. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-002-154.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. The opinion and proposal of the Guarantee Constitutional Legal Committee are as follows. Joint vote on points A1 to A6 and especially a separate vote on point B1.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-002-154.u17	Yes. The procedure is simple. Does anybody... [[Member Schwarz reporting.]] Yes, Mr Schwarz, please. Mr Schwarz has a proposal. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-002-154.u18	Good morning, everyone. Mr Vice-President, I would only ask after the Minister's speech, and even though I am a member of the Constitutional Legal Committee, I would give a chance after the Minister's speech to vote - from which A1 to A6 have been separated and voted separately by points A3 and A4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-002-154.u19	Okay. That's possible, the request is acceptable. So it would be... [[Consultation outside the microphone with the applicant and rapporteur.]] So in the procedure we would suggest that of A1 (?) A3, 4 would be removed, voted separately, and then the rest of A, like A1, 2, 5, 6 would be voted. Yes?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-002-154.u20	I am also adding that when it comes to legislative technical changes, we can therefore vote in such a case when we have decided to vote - to exclude some points for a separate vote - so we could vote A1, A2 and A5, which are more or less legislative technical changes, then A3 and A4, which is now the proposal for a separate vote, and then A6, that is the last amendment in the first part of the amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-002-154.u21	Now, that is the rapporteur's recommendation. Should I see it as an alternative proposal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-002-154.u22	Yes, it's an alternative proposal for a voting procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-002-154.u23	So, first of all, we would vote for an alternative proposal. If it is not adopted, then we will vote on Mr Schwarz's proposal, and if this is set aside, we will vote after the various points. I have begun voting 384, and I ask who is in favour of the alternative proposal, as the rapporteur has put it. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 384 from 163 present, for 78 against 67. It hasn't been accepted. [[11.20 hours]] Now we're going to vote that we're going to separate A1 through A6 from A3, 4. I have launched the 385 vote, and I ask who is in favour of allocating these two points. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 385, from 163 present for 76, against 65. Minister Jurečka reporting? It's not like that. Okay. We will therefore vote on the original proposal, i.e. vote at the same time points A1 to A6. B will then be the next vote. Then there would be a vote on the proposal as a whole. I've started voting number 386. Who's in favour of the proposed procedure, as approved by the guarantee committee? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 386, 163 for 162 present. The motion was accepted. So we will follow the procedure proposed by the guarantee committee. rapporteur, please, first draft.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-002-154.u24	The guarantee committee proposed, with regard to the amendment under point A1, a legislative technical nature, § 146a para. Article 4 (1) (a) (k) the word "or" shall be deleted.". As regards the amendment under point A2. In Part 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: Point I (5) is replaced by the following: "5. In Article 146a (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions shall apply: Article 4 (1) (a) (l) the words "," shall be replaced by the words "or."". [[§ 81b para. 1]] [[§ 81b para. 1]] Amendment under letter A3. In Part 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: I at point No This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. the words "granted or' shall be deleted; Amendment under letter A4. In Part 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: I at point No This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. the words "granted or' shall be deleted; Another amendment under A5. In Part 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: See also point 11 of Section 173 (1) of the EEAG. Article 4 (1) (a) (d) the words "for the lack of consent of the authorised authority" shall be inserted after the word "catching." It is an amendment of a legislative technical nature. And the last amendment under point A6. In Part Two, Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 is replaced by the following: The Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that it does not constitute State aid within the meaning of (c) in conjunction with an organised group operating in several States.". This is about increasing the necessary damage to the limit of CZK 500,000 and more and combined with the organized group operating in several states. That's all, Mr. Vice-President. These are the proposals under paragraph A1 through A6 which I propose to vote with one vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-002-154.u25	The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is a recommendation. Mr. Secretary? [[Recommendant.]] Okay. I've started voting number 387 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 387, from the present 165 for 165, against no one, the proposal was adopted. And now the proposal under letter B. Opinion, rapporteur. [[Deny, disagree.]] Disagree. [[Objection in the O.R.: That's not true!]] Opinion of the Guarantee Committee, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-002-154.u26	The opinion of the Guarantee Committee has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-002-154.u27	It hasn't been accepted. Minister. [[Negative.]] Yes. You heard the man. The Guarantee Committee has not adopted an opinion on the proposal under letter B, the Minister does not recommend it. We will decide in the vote number 388, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 388, from 165 in favour of 36, against 100, the proposal was not accepted. This has exhausted the amendments to the 458 press and we will vote on the proposal as a whole. A guarantee committee? [[He's proposing consent.]] schválit. Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] It is also recommended to approve. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 141/1961 Coll., on Criminal Procedure, as amended, and Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended, pursuant to House press 458, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." [[Criminal Code]] I've started voting number 389 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 389 from 165 in favour of 126, compared to 35, the proposal was adopted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and end with paragraph 154. According to the approved agenda, we will continue with the item
