ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u1	17. Government bill amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on preschool, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education (school law), as amended, and Act No. 200/1990 Coll., on infractions, as amended / House print 611/ - second reading The discussion of this press was suspended yesterday on Wednesday, 10 February, in the general debate. At the rapporteur's table, Minister Valachová and the Committee's rapporteur, Mrs Bohdalová, have already taken her place. We will now continue the adjourned debate. Please contact the microphone logged in to Mrs Semelová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u2	Thank you. Madam President, fellow Members, the direction followed by the Government's amendment to the Education Act could be right and could lead to an improvement in education. Application for a post in kindergarten and compulsory preschool education in the last year before entering primary school, uniform entrance exams at secondary schools, intention to support technical education among others. adaptation of the model and evaluation of the exams, establishment of the National Education Council as an advisory body of the Minister of Education - these changes can be agreed with. If, of course, they were all dragged and not left halfway. Specifically. Compulsory education in the final year of kindergarten. Yes, I agree. Preschool education is of great importance to personal and social development, to compensate for imbalances, to facilitate entry into primary school, to reduce delays, which amount to about 20 percent of the population year. It thus increases educational opportunities and contributes to equal opportunities in education. The importance of the impact of pre-school education on the success of pupils in further education is confirmed by the results of the analyses in the international PISA investigation, which resulted in a recommendation to promote better quality pre-school education, and the introduction of the last year of the kindergarten as a compulsory year is considered to be the most important measure. In most European countries, too, entitlement to the placement of a child is legal; in nine countries of the European Union, participation in pre-school education is compulsory. In the following, compulsory schooling begins at the age of four or five years. In almost all countries of the European Union, there is compulsory attendance in pre-school education in school establishments, and only in a minority of countries it is possible in groups led by parents or trained persons. True, more than 90 percent of five - year - old children already attend nursery school in the Czech Republic. But there's 10 percent left that stays out. Some are devoted to parents, and certainly with full care, some do not have such care. And they are the ones who need high-quality preschool education most. And it shouldn't have been five, but it should have been three years old. These are often children from socially disadvantaged families from excluded localities, which are therefore handicapped in their educational careers compared to their peers. Among other things, 70 percent of Romani children do not attend nursery schools according to published data. It would help them to go to kindergarten. It does not only serve as an educational, but also as an educational, social, and more and more often as a substitute for the family. I therefore do not understand why the possibility of individual education is also proposed with the introduction of compulsory pre-school education in the last year before primary school. These children will continue to stay at home. All he has to do is come to the record and announce that the child will be educated at home, and everything is done. The result - the wolf ate and the goat remained whole. So what's changing? The entitlement of a five-year-old to a place in a kindergarten is already enshrined in the law. Compulsory education is introduced and, at the same time, does not introduce sanctions or compulsory entry to kindergarten if it is found that parents do nothing at home, they are not incorporated in the law. So what's the big deal, anyway? In this form, the proposal completely loses its meaning. It is formal - and unfortunately, this amendment is not a single formality. I therefore propose an amendment which amends this proposal in the sense of my speech. [[17.20 hours]] Another half-heartedness is the proposal for a single centrally awarded entrance exam in high school. I'm sure it's a good plan. The regions also agree, the Association of Primary School Directors and the majority of secondary school directors, namely more than 87% of high school directors, 72 percent of secondary vocational school directors and 36% of secondary vocational school directors with a graduation exam. Today, a large part of the schools do not take admission exams at all, and pupils are only accepted on the basis of evaluations from the last two years of primary school, with the corresponding value of stamps being very low. This brings applicants who simply don't have it, and teaching disciplines become empty. Cantors in high school have no choice but to lower their demands, otherwise few would have made it to the fourth grade. Of course, there are exceptions. They then logically complain about the low level of students in universities. However, primary school teachers also welcome compulsory entrance exams because ninth graders will have to learn a little longer and discipline will be strengthened. Centrally established entrance exams - yes. But there is a need for the Ministry of Education to also set an unobstructed limit, i.e. when a candidate may still be admitted to secondary school and when no longer. And that's not in the law. This competence is further up to the head of the school. And when we look at how the schools are financed - simply as a pupil, the money for the school - it is clear that the director will try to fill the classrooms to the fullest, regardless of knowledge, assumptions and interest in the field of individual applicants. I said, "What's the logic?" The intention to strengthen the quality of students accepted, respectively. education is not fulfilled by this half-baked proposal. I therefore propose an amendment to set the standard for the Ministry of Education. At the same time, I call on the Ministry to make an urgent proposal to change the financing of regional education. Although, as has been said today, this proposal is already ready and will go into an external commentary procedure. When it comes to adjusting the exam, I believe it is discussed with school representatives, and I consider it a reasonable compromise. The introduction of compulsory mathematics from 2021, i.e. four years after the single entrance exams, but also that it will proceed with the adjustment of the hourly grant of mathematics in individual fields of study, I think it is serious towards students. At the same time, however, attention must be paid to the teaching of mathematics already in primary schools. In the explanatory memorandum, we can read that the Ministry of Education is preparing various measures to support activating forms of teaching mathematics and natural and technical education, including support for polytechnic education in kindergarten and primary school. I'm sure that's right. And I assume that this support will include the renewal of school workshops, their equipment, the solution to how to fund the material, further negotiate with the teaching faculties of teacher training. Now, let me say a few words about my amendments, which are suspended in the system and to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. I have already partially mentioned the first proposal. This is the elimination of the possibility of individual education in the last year of preschool education before entering primary school. But I also propose to abolish this form of education at the first grade of primary school. Of course, the KSČM club will not raise its hand for Mrs Putnová's proposal, which comes with the opposite proposal, namely to extend individual education to the second grade of primary school. I have already explained my reservations about allowing individual education in the final year of kindergarten, so I will only comment on the primary school. Education is provided here by a qualified teacher who has completed professional, methodological, didactic and psychological studies as provided for in the Law on pedagogical workers. The preparation of first-level teachers also includes basic training in the field of special pedagogy, so that it is able to identify the special pedagogical needs of the child in time and provide the necessary support. In addition, the primary school student acquires social literacy, learns to live with others, learns tolerance, discuss, argue, promote his opinions and respect or accept the opinions of others. He learns to win and lose, help each other, just prepares for life. All of this is limited in the home environment. A parent-schooler without the necessary knowledge can do harm even with the best efforts to develop a child. As far as the proposal to extend individual education to second grade primary school is concerned, this may not be meant at all. Touch your conscience and honestly tell yourself which one of you would be able to give a high-quality teaching based on the necessary knowledge and skills of proper didactic submission and explanation of the content of the course adequately the age of your offspring in all subjects that are taught at second level. Czech language and literature, mathematics, history, chemistry including experiments, the same applies to physics, two other foreign languages, biology, botany, geology, physical, musical and artistic education, including art history. If any of you can do this, or from your parents at all, it's at the Nobelův Prize. Schooling is very important at all. The pupil meets various procedures to solve the problem. He participates in various projects, works in a team, in groups, works in professional classrooms. School is also such a first clue when there is something wrong with the child, when neglect can occur, abuse. Therefore, the proposal to extend individual education cannot support the KSČM club. Yes, the role of family in raising a child is indisputable in its development. But the state must be responsible for the quality, financing and availability of education. It is in the interests of the development and competitiveness of the Czech Republic, but also in the interests of the child himself. My second amendment concerns uniform entrance exams at secondary schools and the setting of an unobstructed threshold for admission not by the school director, but by the Ministry of Education. I have already given the reasons for this proposal. [[17.30 hours]] The third amendment aims to abolish the fees for stays at kindergarten, in the schools and also to cancel tuition fees at higher vocational schools. In the Czech Republic, many families are on the border or below the poverty line. Thousands of kids don't go to school lunches because parents don't. Many cannot afford an interest, a ski course, or a school in nature. In doing so, the right to education is one of the fundamental rights that should not be put in the way of obstacles, especially the reform of finance. Therefore, this amendment. By the last amendment, I propose to postpone the effectiveness of Section 16, i.e. so-called. joint education or inclusion, if you want, by two years. This means that it would shift from 1 September 2016 to 1 September 2018. The very concept of joint education is somewhat misleading. What common education is excluded from it by those who receive individual education when those who leave for secondary school, private schools, religious schools, etc. are excluded from this joint education? But the amendment itself. I believe that if inclusion enters into force this September, as previously approved, it will destabilize the school system, it will harm pupils and teachers of all schools, staff of school advisory facilities, strengthen private education, where pupils from mainstream schools will go. There will be a significant weakening of special education and a reduction in the quality of education at all. In my opinion, the Ministry of Education is unnecessarily and too subject to pressure from various non-profit organizations and Brussels. Instead of clearly supporting a functioning quality system of special schools that provide education according to the needs of individual pupils, instead of presenting clear arguments to these critics demonstrating the merits of the existence of these schools, they are throwing them under the bus. There are up to 30 pupils in a common school, with a maximum of 14 pupils in a practical class. Children with mild mental disability experience a sense of success here. Do you think they will experience it in a crowded classroom, where they will be together with children with various specific learning and behavioral disorders, with others who will have different degrees and kind of disability, some of that extraordinarily gifted and then ordinary pupils? Thanks to special schools, there is practically no illiteracy in the Czech Republic - unlike the states that advise us so selflessly. Pupils complete education and can learn, which allows them to find employment in the labour market. Elementary schools established separately for pupils with LMP, i.e. mild mental disability, are very well equipped with demonstration teaching aids and didactic technique. For the education sector, people and the world of work have professional classrooms, metalworks, woodworks, sewing and knitting workshops, training kitchens, universal workshops, lands, greenhouses, where practical preparation takes place. That's what's missing in primary schools. The teachers of primary schools of practical and other special courses attended not some speed course in a few hours, but five-year study of special pedagogy. In order to understand correctly, I do not in any way reduce the quality of teachers in mainstream schools. On the contrary. They're excellent professionals, but they have a different specialty. They are not less educated, but they are otherwise qualified, have no education and practice in the field of special pedagogy. Unfortunately, neither the Ministry of Education nor the educational institutions responded in time to the increased need for special educators and psychologists. The educator's assistant can't save it. First, they are so crappy paid that they do not rush into this work, second, there is a complete lack of them, and third, the requirements for their education do not correspond to what should be involved in their work. They only have an additional pedagogical minimum for high school. There will also be another administration for schools. The number of individual training plans will increase. And counseling centers? If other consultants fail to accept, there will be a collapse of counseling, a lack of legal deadlines, formalism, which will logically affect schools as well. Even now, as their number of tasks has grown, they are not objectively prosecuting and working at the limit of possibilities. No wonder some of them are about to leave. And that's not the start of this unthinkable step yet. So let's conclude. Since September 2016, the regions, schools, special educators, staff meeting and special centres and not a large part of the parental public disagree with inclusion. There's too much risk. Moreover, no time has been given for pilot verification of the new education system or for the processing of newly adapted school education plans. Elementary schools as well as other special schools have their place here. Putting the whole functioning education system into legal, financial and professional uncertainty is a hazard with education and will lead to the devaluation of public education. Therefore, my fellow Members, I am asking you to support my amendments, in particular the amendment to postpone Section 16 by two years, so that there is at least time for pilot verification and its provision of personnel, professional and economic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u3	I thank you, Madame, and please refer to Mr Karamazov's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed amendment contains three substantial changes - compulsory pre-school education, compulsory part of the entrance exams for secondary schools and compulsory mathematics graduation, i.e. all responsibilities. I will try to express my opinion on all these responsibilities and explain my two amendments on compulsory pre-school education and compulsory mathematics. The compulsory year of pre-school education aims to address a problem that does not exist in order to cover the inability to solve a problem that exists but is politically very sensitive. Ninety percent of five-year-olds attend the last year of kindergarten. But the government wants it to be a hundred percent, and it also wants 100% control over them. Of course, the government's proposal is aimed at children from socially disadvantaged environments. However, I strongly doubt that the new instruments will be used more effectively and actively than they have been before, although I would of course like to be wrong here. The proposed change merely puts pressure on parents who prefer individual education of their children. The state will usurp another part of education without offering anything in return. Kids won't learn any more, they won't be better prepared, nothing like that. There will only be unnecessary state regulations and, of course, a bunch of paperwork for parents and kindergarten schools that the government will turn into parents' guardians. It's probably going to shock the government, but if it wants to reduce the number of delays in entering school, let it tighten the delay rules, and if it wants to push parents from socially disadvantaged environments, there are more public authorities than kindergartens. They're supposed to be used to raise children, not parents. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore clearly reject the first obligation, and my first amendment repeals this obligation. The second proposed obligation is also problematic - a single entrance exam in high schools. On the one hand, I would really welcome the really representative tests that will tell how the pupils are doing after primary school. Perhaps such punishment could also take the form of entrance exams in secondary schools, but together with that it should also be said that pupils with results below a certain limit do not have a degree in graduating. The regions as the main founders of secondary schools have not taken such a step anywhere, and they probably will not, and the schools themselves will not, nor will they, willingly or even cancel. At the end of the day, high schools lower the standard to keep the weaker pupils, which is finally pouring into our universities. Instead of a comparative output, there are uniform entrance exams in the proposal of the amendment, which are to account for at least fifty percent of the evaluation. Despite nice words from the designers' workshop, I do not see practical benefits. High-quality schools with overhangs of pupils have years of experience with selection and their own tests, and therefore the new system will not bring them anything. [[17.40 hours]] Schools with less interest will continue to look for ways to fill their classes and accept as many pupils as possible. Whether it lowers the bar for admission to the lowest level or engages a purely formal part of the exam, nothing changes compared to the current state. In this case, I do not find the contribution of this part of the amendment to our education. Dear colleagues, one really big commendation is still due to the Ministry of Education and the Minister for the amendment tabled. Finally, a fundamental lack of state math is being corrected, when contemporary graduates must choose between a foreign language and mathematics as if both were not important. The introduction of compulsory math graduation finally fills the basic sense of state math, the determination of the minimum extent of knowledge that each senior must have and which schools must teach. Therefore, let us not look at this part of the amendment to the School Act as a revolutionary novelty, but rather as the removal of a mistake stemming from a lack of courage to accept the unpopular but necessary change of the past. Because the exact necessary and necessary change in math graduation is. Of course, the introduction of a three-subject state graduation is not a self-saving solution, but it creates an important stabilization element for our educational system. The result is a student who will control Czech and foreign languages and will be ready to analyze and solve not only theoretical tasks but mainly real problems. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's proposal for an amendment is presented by introducing a compulsory math degree. In fact, it will merely establish that the Government's regulation sets out the disciplines for which mathematics will be compulsory from the 2020/2021 school year. In doing so, the government can set all the fields as proposed, but maybe only one, or in an absurd case, none. Other fields are supposed to be up until the government regulation update - perhaps - in the school year 2023/2024. On purpose, I say the word, perhaps, because it is not anchored anywhere, and only it vaguely promises a reason message. There should be exceptions to this, for example in the fields of education of the group of art and applied art. And what other fields will have a permanent exception, no one knows. Colleagues and colleagues, in my amendment, I therefore want to introduce mathematics as a truly compulsory subject. Instead of exempting from the exceptions, and with the exception of the above, I want to lay down a clear and certain rule: mathematics graduation will indeed be compulsory. For the fields where the framework education programmes and the curriculum need to be adapted, the Government's regulation would set a specific date from the Spring Examination Period 2021. For fields whose students are already properly prepared and theoretically could graduate from mathematics immediately, mathematics would be mandatory from the spring examination period 2018. There is no reason why gymnastics should not graduate from three courses since 2018. So they would have had two full years to adapt. To the aforementioned exception for artists. The reasoned report presented by the amendment talks about the fields of art and applied art and their specificity. But it opens Pandořin's box for erosion of the entire concept of compulsory mathematics graduation. If it is not just a libation of culture, then what is their field so specific that they have an exception that, for example, future nurses or social services workers will not have? Other and other disciplines might also want an exception, surely they would "convincingly" justify it. There is no guarantee that the government will not succumb to it. Ladies and gentlemen, graduation for three subjects is the minimum basis that Czech education needs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The next is Mrs Putnová, who is not present here, so her application is being forfeited, Mrs Černochová, Mrs Maxová. And now, please, to Mrs Nohavová's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u6	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in my contribution I will focus on the part of the amendment dealing with pre-school education. The amendment to the Act introduces compulsory preschool education in the final year of kindergarten. Education in kindergartens in the Czech Republic is one of the best-developed, but the obligation of preschool education in the Czech Republic is not unlike other countries that have compulsory preschool education from the age of three. For example, I can mention Hungary. I welcome the MŠMT proposal. The amendment introduces compulsory pre-school education but does not introduce compulsory attendance. This does not mean the extension of compulsory attendance, compulsory schooling to ten years, as it is mentioned in the debate. And there's a difference. Kindergarten attendance remains the same as now. Just an apology from the parents, no medical confirmation will be required. Even today, parents must apologize to their children. The aim is to help children start their educational career. Unfortunately, not every child has sufficient support from his family and social background. A reduction in the number of deferrals is also expected from the introduction of the compulsory final year. The compulsory preschool year according to the proposal will be able to take place in kindergarten, in the preparatory class of primary school, in a foreign school in the Czech Republic and in another form is the possibility of individual education. It'll be up to the parents how they choose. If the legal representative of the child for whom pre-school education is compulsory chooses individual education in justified cases, he shall notify the head of the kindergarten where the child was admitted. I am not a supporter of individual education, but there is obviously no chance of removing it from the law, and I therefore propose in my amendment its tightening up. Although the original proposal deals with a case where parents do not cooperate with the school and do not allow the child to verify the level of adopted expected outcomes, they simply do not allow the child to be tested, but do not solve the situation where the parent formally allows the examination and the child does not succeed in relation to the level of individual education during the examination, and therefore it is found that individual education is so poor that it does not fulfil its purpose and thus the child will not meet the basic conditions for admission to the first year of primary school. In the amendment, I propose beyond the original proposal, as is the case for schooling in § 41 para. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. (c) where the completion of individual education is also linked to forfeiture, which, of course, is not an option for pre-school education, I suggest adding the possibility of completing individual education for its insufficient quality. In this context, what quality of pre-school training should be achieved is essential. If this level, which is to be verified, is not established in any way, this institute could be misused and the procedure of both the Director and the parents would be unreviewable. Therefore, I propose supplementing paragraph 4 with a text: or at least the minimum expected level of education under the framework education programme for pre-school education will not be achieved. So paragraph 4 would be: The head of the kindergarten where the child was admitted to pre-school education will end the child's individual education if the child's legal representative did not ensure the child's participation in the verification referred to in paragraph 3, even at the alternate date. And I am supplementing: or if at least the minimum expected level of education under the framework education programme for pre-school education is not achieved during the examination. On the basis of practice, I believe that this will ensure at least a minimum possibility for the school director to influence the quality of individual pre-school education, because without this adjustment, the director would not be able to end the poor individual pre-school education. [[17.50 hours]] So it's kind of an insurance policy. I am of the opinion that it is better to end individual education if it is found that something is wrong than to report it to Social Services, as I was told during the discussion of the MŠMT amendment to my question of what we will do if individual education fails to fulfil its function. I really don't consider social services a good solution. I therefore ask for the support of this amendment. In a detailed debate, I will sign up for my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u7	Thank you, Madame. Now, please, to the microphone of Mrs. Hubáčková. Mrs Dobešová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u8	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, I believe that the amendment represents a pretty good attempt at a fundamental step towards improving the education system. In terms of content, it focuses on solving two long problems of regional education, and I consider it to be very positive that the solution at the entrances to education levels is finally beginning, in contrast to the previous practice, when the solution was sought at the output. What is very important here is what is hidden in the whole amendment's subtext, that the state is finally aware of its role in addressing the demand for meaningful education. Similarly, the requirement for uniform entrance exams for graduates in the field of study can be evaluated. The voice of common sense also speaks of an effort to compensate for some educational chances before entering primary school by introducing pre-school education obligations. There are objections that the amendment restricts individual freedom and human rights, and I, on the contrary, recall the basic functions of the educational system. Although the introduction of compulsory pre-school education is far from a solution to all problems, it is one of the measures considered effective in most of Europe. The problems I see in connection with its introduction concern a rather large optimism of numbers, in your explanatory report on the capacity of the kindergarten. As I recall, a deficit of 56 thousand seats was introduced in 2014 and a fund was established for the development of the capacity of kindergarten and primary schools. It seems to work absolutely miraculously, because if the number of children rises by 11,500 in 2017, when the population is 3-5 years old by almost 30,000, then I wonder how the Ministry of Education concluded that 60-76 thousand places will reside in kindergartens. At this point, it is assumed that between 2014 and 2017, capacity will increase by 100,000 seats. The second measure at the entry point is the introduction of uniform entrance exams for admission to study in the senior fields. It is clearly more reasonable to sort out the candidates ahead than to unleash at the end of the graduation genocide, as it was this year. The actual introduction of compulsory math graduation is more than necessary at a time of technology if we do not want to be just a nation of passive users of imported technologies. In this part of the amendment, the distribution of the necessary measures into reasonable time and the very sensitive exclusion of artistic disciplines can be positively assessed. I just regret that the problems of integrating pupils with special educational needs are not similarly sensitive. The most shameful is § 16. I believe that the elementary school with all the support measures will not replace the current situation. The teacher will have to make and follow individual educational plans, decide and provide support measures, come up with other individual educational plans for an exceptionally gifted child, watch the work of an assistant, regardless of the fact that they are certainly only interfering with their presence and communication with the child. Not to mention the necessary cooperation with counseling facilities and school management. It happens that the assistant himself works with a child outside the classroom without the supervision of a teacher, and that is completely misguided and the results are consistent. They must also evaluate the work of other, perhaps even disciplined children, interpret the substance, evaluate the hour and other normal duties. There are several children who want to go to the toilet, drink, and a cell phone is under the bench, and this whole theatre has to be documented for possible checks. I feel like it's almost becoming a habit here in everything that works, that it must suddenly be different. I consider the return to joint education to be a leap back. It already leads to the establishment of private facilities and will lead to an even greater segregation of children who are not able to follow, regardless of ethnicity. The whole fun and business with support aids will cost quite a lot of money in the outlook. Those who have not yet understood the importance of education will certainly not be better off in joint education and the rest of the children will be lost on occasion. Special educators with practice and real qualifications will be few and many will find employment elsewhere. In addition, Section 172a on the establishment of the National Education Council is incorporated into this amendment, although it is nothing against nothing and basically something established randomly ad hoc is established by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u9	I thank the lady of the house and now, please, to Mrs Dobešová's microphone. Mr Laudát will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good evening. Allow me, too, to comment on the House's 611 press in the general debate. I don't want to touch the amendment to the school bill as such, but I would like to mention the matter of the math exam as a compulsory graduation course. In the amendment to the Act is given to selected disciplines, which are listed in the Government's regulation, the obligation to graduate four years after 1 September 2016. I believe that this is not the right step to achieve a compulsory graduation exam. Currently in the Czech Republic there are approximately 200 framework education disciplines that are included in the education system. With this step in the amendment we come to the fact that only some of the fields listed have been assigned to the joint part of the graduation exam a compulsory subject of mathematics. I think it's a good idea. I think the explanatory report also says that in the next step, this subject will be included in other fields. But I think, from a strategic point of view, this step is unhappy. Currently, there is much more to be offered in the range of secondary schools or in the number of places than the number of applicants. There are high schools, which are full of 60 percent in the field of graduating. And I know exactly what the decision-making strategy of pupils, future high school students, but also parents is like. It's not: let's do everything I can to achieve my highest degree of education at the given moment of graduation. It's: I'm going the way of least resistance to a graduation exam. And let's face it, if we list in the government's regulation the subjects in which there will be a compulsory graduation exam, then we're going to sort of put these majors into disability when choosing, because there's certainly a relative in those 160 others without a compulsory math exam, and therefore students will almost achieve a similar goal with a much lower effort. [[18.00 hours]] I understand why he's been taken like this. In the remaining framework education programmes, mathematics is simply not completed in such a number of lessons that it can be graduated at the first stage. But I don't think the Ministry realized how he behaved in the natural environment of a high school student. I'm going to give you an example of an industry that is included in that list of government regulations, it's a major in agribusiness. This field already has five graduation courses - three profiles, i.e. the professional part, and two in the state. So we're going to add the sixth-- math. However, such a student will basically receive the same certificate as a high school student, who is currently graduating only from four graduation courses and from this - and now listen to me well - in the state and profile section he can graduate from the same subjects, i.e. actually from two subjects. And we're saying that both of these students have a perfectly consistent graduation exam. In the case of students of vocational schools, one subject of the profiling examination is mostly composed as a set of several partial courses which the student studied during the course of the study. Therefore, if I take one subject of expertise, it can be composed of five objects. So at this point, we're trying to compare, if I overdo it, pears with apples, and we're expecting apples to come out. I must admit that, at a time when we say that we need to support technical and natural sciences, paradoxically, we are getting these technical and natural sciences into disability. In fact, we say that they will be much more demanding, and they are and will therefore be even more demanding than in other fields, and therefore, from the logic of the matter students will not in the first place seek these fields. I'm going back to farming again. The Agrarian Chamber in one district has done a survey of how many employees businesses in the district will need to be replaced by 2020. They received answers only from seventeen respondents and some others, and they had an unimaginable number - by 202 only 764 employees would need to be replaced in one district. Most of them with graduation exams. If I take it that in this district there are about 30 graduates of high school with an agricultural field on average a year, it's almost unmanageable. And we're still saying that we're going to put these disciplines in a handicap. I ask that you take these facts into account, which I am trying to present here, and the moment you vote on my amendment, which I would like to read in a detailed debate, my intention to reduce the number of senior courses with the math exam supported me. Thank you all, to those of you who have been able to pay attention to my speech, and in a detailed debate, I will read my amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u11	Thank you, Madame. Ladies and gentlemen, have a nice evening. Before we continue the debate, I will read two note cards. After 18 o'clock for health reasons, Mr Karel Pražák apologizes today and from 18 o'clock to the end of the day for working reasons, Mr Marek Černoch apologizes. Mr Laudát is also enrolled in the debate, and Mrs Černochová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Originally, I thought I'd start reciting Lebanese poetry here to revive it as part of my education, but I was warned here that I might be healthy, so I'm going to refrain from taking these steps. I would merely briefly comment on a few amendments that are not my work, but since the House programme has become quite erratic, two of my colleagues who wanted to load the amendments here yesterday had to apologize for serious reasons today. Therefore, accept, although of course, the view of them would be significantly better. Please have a press in the system, or an amendment under number 3480 to this press. It is Mrs Putnová's amendment. It concerns Czech schools without borders. I'm not going to read the individual partial because it's a very large material, just briefly to do so. The aim of this amendment is to support approximately two million Czech citizens or foreign nationals of Czech origin abroad and to present our country abroad through Czech schools. As Czech schools abroad, it is possible to identify institutions or activities that ensure the preservation of knowledge of Czech language and Czech realities to the descendants of Czech citizens abroad. In particular, these are nine Czech schools without borders, which are also regional associations coordinated by the Czech civic association Czech school without borders. The main goal is to educate the Czech-speaking young generation growing up abroad, which will be able not only to read and write Czech in adulthood, but also to maintain awareness of their roots and a sense of belonging to the Czech nation and the Czech Republic. The problem is, and that is why the amendment came about, the problem is that this merit - you certainly do not question - which is, by its nature, a public service, does not have the necessary legal anchor or stable resources. The proposed legislation relates therefore to the institutional anchoring of the Czech school without borders in the system of educational institutions of the Czech Republic as an institution which educates especially the children of Czech or Czech parents or with Czech ancestors in the Czech language and the realities of the Czech Republic. Secondly, it sets out the conditions for these institutions to act in order to ensure their quality. Thirdly, the obligation of MŠMT and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to support these institutions in both material and methodological terms is laid down. Predictable financing of these facilities is ensured, which is based not on the normative but on the cost principle, with the participation of the equipment being at least 50 per cent. I hope that then in the third reading, and I strongly urge you to support this, because whenever you come - and you all travel very much - abroad and you come across a Czech trail, one way or another, you always get a heartbeat and you're proud that we work there, and the more the better. Next is the amendment by Professor Putnová, Professor Zlatuška, Simeon Karamazov, Augustin Sylor, Nina Nováková, Jiří Mihola - I stress Jiří Mihola, wishing - Martina Berdychová, František Vácha, also a lecturer, Bohuslav Svoboda, also a lecturer, who is in the system under number 3688. I'm not gonna read any specific modifications here again, just for a little while. One part concerns a proposal which will enable individual education at the second level of primary schools in principle under the same conditions as currently at the first level, with the exception of an increased requirement for the education of the person who will educate the pupil. I think Ms. Semelová has made a negative statement about this here. And then on to the next two and three points. There is no doubt that education is a public administration, regardless of whether it is carried out at a school set up by a public or private founder. The State is therefore responsible for its quality regardless of the person of the provider, even if it does not take place at school but outside it on the basis of individual education. There is another very detailed justification for this proposal in the amendment, which, of course, is part of the explanatory report. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] You also have Mrs Mgr's amendment in the system. Nina Nováková under number 3676, where general objectives of education are extended. In particular, the general objective would also be the development of a person's personality... [[Silence for noise in the hall.]] Can I ask you to...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u13	Of course. I'm making peace, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u14	Thank you. The development of the personality of a person who will be equipped with cognitive and social qualifications, moral and spiritual values. Further acquisition of general education or general vocational education, understanding and application of the principles of democracy and the rule of law, fundamental human rights and freedoms, etc. Understanding and applying the principle of equality between men and women in society, for further shaping the consciousness of national and national nationality, for understanding and adopting the principles and rules based on European integration for coexistence in transnational and international terms, for the knowledge of world cultural values and traditions, for the creation of respect for the ethnic, national, cultural, linguistic and religious identity of everyone, for the understanding and adoption of European cultural values and for the traditions of humanism based on the spiritual legacy of antiquity and Christianity, for the acquisition and application of knowledge on the environment and protection, etc. And then there's this... You have a very detailed explanation again. Next is a proposal that you have in the system under number - again a colleague of Nina Nováková - under number 3677. I'll tell you what it's all about again. The proposal is based on the duty of parents to ensure the education of their children and, at the same time, by the Constitution of Guaranteed Rights, to decide on this education. The only practical restriction on parental rights is compulsory school attendance, which is legally determined for nine years starting from the school year. In practice, the right to pre-school education, which is currently guaranteed the last year before entering primary school, is guaranteed by the community where the child has permanent residence, we consider it a beneficial service of the state towards the family. We also consider it a positive intention to move the state-funded pre-school education limit to four or three years of the child's age. And there's a reason for that. And you have the last amendment in the system - once again, Mrs Nina Nováková, who I am adopting - under number 3678. On the other hand, the aim of the proposal is to strengthen the awareness of the co-responsibility of pupils and students in the successful course of the educational and educational process in schools, to promote the civil education of pupils and students, to strengthen the atmosphere of mutual cooperation between all those who influence the environment at a specific school. It concerns, in fact, the initiative of the institutions of the student and student self-government, also the school board to ensure feedback, so that pupils consider it their own, that the school is also their institution, where they are not forced to go, but where they also decide to discuss, to make proposals or to co-decision. So just in a nutshell, please read the details in those amendments, in the explanatory notes that are handled very precisely. I hope you'll support them at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u15	Thank you, too. I have one point of fact here, Mr Brázdil. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u16	Thank you for the floor. I'm afraid maybe I wouldn't get to the floor after Mrs. Černochová, so just one technical matter. I have heard that in this novel there is also inclusion into the first and second classes. [[Voice in the room: no.]] It's not. He's not, okay, so I was wrong, but still. However, I would like to ask - you know, teachers are more likely to be persecuted by those children at the moment. They call them names, threaten them, do all kinds of face stuff and stuff. Does the teacher have any options or boundaries today that he can go as far as raising the kid? Not in teaching, he's probably got rules there, but in education. Are there rules for teachers, how can they treat such a child? They can snatch him up, can they physically defile him in any way? It's a question - I don't know, I don't think I'm gonna get an answer, but it was just a technical remark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u17	Thank you, too. If the Minister does not respond, I will give the floor to Mrs Černochová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u18	Good evening, Mr Vice-President, so here we are again in the same lineup. Ladies and gentlemen, I think, as was said in the film Forrest Gump, when he decided to buy, respectively. He said, "Well, I know all about shrimp." I think it could be true of you, that you already know quite a lot about education in Prague 2. And I'd like to thank you here for your patience yesterday, for hearing me out, and I think from what I heard yesterday, I'd like to appeal to you one more time in the one thing I'm going to repeat from last night. Go really between second and third readings as part of a visit to your regions to the kindergarten, meet with the principals, meet with the faculty, ask them for an opinion on what they think about it. I'm not saying that I want to give you a homework assignment, but it really is a huge intervention in what has been going on in our education until now, and I don't think it's a change for the better. I don't want to repeat the things that I said here yesterday, nor do I want to delay, but please be so kind and take advantage of the possibility that you, as Members, have the opportunity that the next week is actually a committee, you won't be sitting every day in Prague, but find a moment if there aren't spring break, and go, go within your regions to kindergarten and talk to these people. And one request to the Minister of Education. I really think it would be appropriate to go back to the recasting, so that some of the things that are contained in the amendments are directly in the law, because it is also a business card for the Ministry of Education. And here, after Mr. Chládek's departure, a lot of directors and directors really rejoiced that the new Minister Valachová had arrived, and we are now taking that hope away from them by this law. As an opposition politician, I could actually be happy and I could say yes, so it is good that Mrs Valachová does not have the support of teaching staff. But I'm not happy because I'm also the mayor, who, in the role of the founder, will simply have to deal with the ignorance that's in that law in practice. So I'm asking everyone to think about whether we really want to change our education in this way. I think it's wrong. And so did my colleague Brázdil here, not in this law, but it has to do with the new standards, of course, because it's in the preamble. The inclusion should be reviewed, and officials of the Ministry of Education should not suggest further and further experiments to the Minister, which will manifest themselves negatively in the system. And I think the best solution would be if the funds were actually raised to the schools themselves, and those schools know very well, they know very well what they're going to need the money for. I did this in Prague 2 that I offered to the directors if they wanted to have a special educator in primary schools or if they wanted to have a psychologist. Every school in Prague 2, and there are ten basics, has this option, every principal. Someone combined it with two parts. I've made sure they're managers, they're people who know the situation in their building, and they know what's best for the kids who go through the educational process. Of course, parents know best, but we steal their children from them in this proposal. So please, once again, and I appeal to you all - go to your regions, talk to those professionals, and Madam Secretary, stop those experiments, don't let your colleagues peek things that are pointless. Drive more often among experts and educators, because they are people who still trust you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u19	Thank you, Madame. I have here a factual remark from Mr Zlatuška, Mr Hovorka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u20	Mr President, technically I would just point out that if the amendments were adopted, they would become part of the law, while now, if it were followed by my Černochová, they would only be part of the bill. But I'm more concerned about her giving appeals to see kindergartens and others in our spare time. I would recommend that we read in our spare time the very high-quality quantitative data in today's Diary in an interview with the Minister, who actually has eyes opening up data on this issue of inclusion in terms of the number of schools, in terms of the number of children involved, with a slight mental disability. From the point of view of the effects it has. I think it's qualified material, and it's certainly not necessary to drag it back into this law, as two colleagues have said since inclusion. Seriously, about what Mrs. Černochová said about psychologists. Psychologists in large schools were abolished by the Minister of Education under the ODS and Co.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u21	Thank you. With a point of fact, I'd like to ask Mrs Černochová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u22	I don't know if Professor Zlatuška wants to understand or not hear me. I was clearly saying that there are more of those proposals that relate to the same thing. And that it would be appropriate to say which of these proposals is so comfortable in the next education system that it would be necessary to go back to that, so that there is not just any change now, because the proposal is related in this section to a few others relating to the pre-school education. I didn't even tell you about going to school. I told you to talk to the people who run the preschool facility and let them give you an opinion. Because they are people who are really in this, with all due respect to the professor, so are those who have been in this kind of education for 30 years. These are people who know the issue very closely. And I'm not going to say anything about inclusion because it's not part of this law. I would merely recommend to Mr Zlatušek, through Mr President, that he read three other articles from last week.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u23	Thank you. I'll read the apology that came to me. Until the end of today's working day, Mr Milan Šarapatka apologizes. Mr Zlatuška is reporting with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u24	Mr President, I would just like to draw attention to the moment when my colleague here refers to the experience of 30 years old - the education really seemed different 30 years ago. And I understand that there are a number of sentimental memories among the educators of those times. But it wouldn't be good to go back there right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u25	Thank you. Mr Ludvík Hovorka, duly signed up for the debate, will now speak. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u26	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address Section 16, that is precisely inclusion, although the current law does not address this. But since I've been mayor of the village for 12 years and I've consulted these things with the mayors, they're very concerned about fulfilling the responsibilities that are essentially given, virtually. the rights deriving from Article 16 (1) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union; 6, and this is that children, pupils and students with special educational needs have the right to education, the content, forms and methods of which correspond to their educational needs and possibilities, to create the necessary conditions to enable this education, and to assist schools and educational counselling facilities. Somehow there is no problem with children, pupils getting the widest possible, but the problem is that especially small schools in smaller municipalities have a problem really fulfilling this. Therefore, I think that in this law, as it was, I would say, very humanely built, so that everyone has the best possible options and integration, so this does not correspond to the reality and possibilities of the smaller schools in particular. Especially those with 200, 250 pupils, I think that it is not possible to provide education for, for example, a child with some mental disorder. Note that such a child will not only be enough for an assistant, but that the child will also be able to disturb other pupils in the educational process, and this will, of course, complicate the education of others. Now maybe he's getting stronger years, and you can imagine in such a larger class, if there's a kid with some mental disorder, even if he has an assistant, I can't imagine his education in a normal, say, class, or a class where 26 children are fully capable, and that's one kid who's even with some mild mental disorder. I think the pedagogical public also points out that this is a problem for our schools and that inclusion problems are difficult to solve. Unable to create special classes with special educational needs. Material and spatial background are missing. Pupils need a different regime, more frequent relaxation, facilities for psychologists, etc. Maybe the funds the secretary is talking about will be secured. But that's not all. There's one more moment, and that's actually the effect of the majority, the class, and the one child with the disorder. And now I mean mental. Because I can imagine that a child who is disabled in some way has some disability, so he can deal with it with the help of an assistant, with the help of other children. But when it comes to some mental disability, of course it is much more complicated and difficult not only for the child, but especially for the educator. And, of course, for the rest of the class. So I believe that these things should be dealt with appropriately, and I stress that the mayors will have enormous problems filling this up. There will also be a problem with the ability of the pedagogical public to meet these requirements § 16 para. 6. I would also like to mention the status of special schools. Nowadays, teaching and counselling centres virtually refuse to recommend a child for education in a special school. Even children with mental retardation propose to engage in mainstream education. This already leads to child damage on its own, when those children with some mental disability are already failing in the first class. If that is the case, of course the child loses motivation and then it is very difficult to educate him, even if it would be quite possible in a special school. Special educational counseling centres issue only recommended opinions, which are interpreted differently by each party, and disputes arise between the parental public and the pedagogical public. And because of the low number of pupils of specialized schools, they are really limited and will probably gradually disappear. Although the secretary on the school committee said it wasn't true that they'd keep working. But according to the interpretation of Section 16 and what is to be prepared or what is to be realized, it is real that children in special classes or special schools will be much less. And, of course, we can talk about some delay here, two years there's been a proposal, or it's going to be in a detailed debate. Madam Secretary said if I put it off for a hundred years, everyone's gonna be applauding me. But I think even if it goes away by two years, the problem in two years will be roughly the same. [[18.30 hours]] I think that there may be far greater opportunities in urban schools, where there are, of course, much larger schools, founders have much more resources than in smaller schools in municipalities, where the number of children in schools is up to 200, 250 children. There I think it will be a big problem, and that is why I think that these things should be discussed and what is already relatively in the law should be corrected, and there should be some proportionality to the size of the school and the possibilities of schools. This is my practical knowledge, which I interpret on the basis of the mayor's request, which I also gave to the Minister. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u27	Thank you. Mrs Marta Semelová, Mr Karel Fiedler will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u28	Thank you. I would like to respond to my colleague Hovorka. I fully agree with you, my colleague, through Mr President, that the best thing would be to maintain the existing system, because the system of special education is really functioning and helps children who need it. The fact that I propose to postpone by two years, so in the current situation where there is no will to withdraw from this Section 16, at least I am trying to create room for some wider discussion, for some preparation, for the training of teachers, and for the preparation of other special educators, psychologists, assistants, who, although I do not know how much money, are simply not in the present situation. And I believe that if the deadline had been extended for at least two years, we would have been able to discuss it in the form in which it is, in the end it would not have been approved at all, or it would have been released from the law on the basis of an amendment. So for this reason, I'm asking for the support of the displacement of Section 16 by two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u29	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Karel Fiedler, duly signed up for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good evening, even if it's a proper application, I promise it won't be long at all. I have two amendments in the system, I will comment briefly, then I will just sign up for them in a detailed debate. One of them relates to the well-known thing, when in schools and in the ministry they probably also found that there is a problem with teaching students in some of the professional subjects within the various substances. I know that the Ministry has elegantly resolved this by some government regulation, which, to be honest, I don't like, because when we make laws here and then the government or the ministries regulate it with their regulations, I don't think it's reasonable. I will not make any unnecessary comment, the amendment just allows this problem to not happen here, so that teaching can continue as it went on until the wording of the law has made it difficult. I think it should be in the law, and it will never be a problem forever. That is why I would ask for the support of the amendment. The second amendment that I have concerns the structure of the disciplines, what we are constantly witnessing is that, unfortunately, schools produce graduates in the fields where the students have no application, there is no demand for them, and, on the contrary, we hear it today and daily, the industrial companies on which our exports stand today cost the results of our economy, they need techniques, they do not. I know we have low unemployment, but it was also in times when it was higher, they had trouble getting certain professions of students. And the structure of what educational fields we have, which students are based on these schools, does not correspond to what our state and our economy need. With this amendment, I am simply trying to move it around so that the structure of what will be written, where students will be able to report is more consistent with the requirements of industrial enterprises, manufacturers who make the greatest contribution to the state budget, and then we should really think about it and do something about it. It is a matter that is being dealt with in the long term, a bit based on the experience that is in Slovakia, and I think it is a very necessary thing. It does not interfere with matters of grammar schools, but only with vocational schools. I will then sign up for my amendments in a detailed debate. As promised, it won't be long and I'm done.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before I conclude the general debate, I ask if anyone is applying to it. I do not see an application, in which case I am ending the general debate. I ask the Minister, the rapporteur, if you want to take the final words. It's not like that. Thank you. Given that no other proposal has been made, I am initiating a detailed debate in which I am registering 12 applications. The rapporteur will therefore be the first to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u32	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. As I announced yesterday and justified my amendment here, which concerns the fact that pre-school education will start from two to six years old, my proposal is inserted into the system as House document 3690. I'm begging my colleagues to study it, see if they'd support it at the third reading. I would still like to read one of the amendments proposed by my colleague Kořenek, who is ill, and I therefore sign up for this proposal and allow myself to read it. It is proposed that the duration of the public office should not be included in the six-year period after which the school director may be removed from office. in Article 1, the following points (x) and (y) are inserted after point 50: (x) in Section 166, the following paragraph 8 is added: The six-year period referred to in the sentence of the first paragraph 3 is extended by the period during which the Director was released for the performance of public office; (y) in Section 172 (8) the words "§ 166 para. 2 to 7' is replaced by "§ 166 para. 2 to 8'. The following points are numbered. Justification: In practice, the person appointed as director and, for example, after three months to perform public office, for example, for a period of five years, after his return, is still in school for one year and nine months until the term after which the founder can declare bankruptcy. It is proposed that the overall six-year period after which the founder may declare bankruptcy as head of the school should be extended by the duration of the public office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u33	Thank you. We are now going to follow the duly registered Members and Members into a detailed debate. Mrs Nina Nováková is not present, she apologizes today, Mr Laudát will sign up to her amendment. I will therefore ask for a speech in a detailed debate by Mrs Marta Semelová and Mr Karamazov will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u34	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for my amendments, which are in the system under number 3513.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u35	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Karamazov, Mrs Černochová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u36	Thank you for the floor. I want to sign up for my two amendments, which I commented on in the general debate and have numbers 3648 and 3693. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u37	Thank you. Now, then, Mrs Černochová, Mrs Nohavová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Since I applied yesterday to the amendments for my colleague Benda, they were amendments under the number of House document 3691, and given that he made an agreement with Karamazov Simeon, who read the proposal before me, I withdraw this and I know that I will be applying to proposal 3691.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u39	Thank you. Now, then, Mrs Nohavová and Mrs Dobešová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u40	Thank you. I am signing up for my amendment, which is inserted under No. 3312.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u41	Thank you. I shall ask Mrs Dobešová. Mrs Radka Maxová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u42	I would like to sign up for an amendment that is inserted into the system under No. 3468. It concerns the compulsory math exam, where I limit the list of fields in which the first stage should begin the math exam. The reason for this is that the fields I have removed are those in which mathematics has only begun to study according to the new framework education programmes since 1 September 2015 and hence new school education programmes. I think these disciplines should not go until the next stage of compulsory math exams. At the same time, my amendment includes a list of these disciplines, for which the compulsory mathematics exam remains as an annex to the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u43	Thank you, Madame. Mrs Radka Maxová is now registered. She apologizes; Mr Soukup will represent her in order to read the amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u44	I refer, under the authority of my colleague Radka Maxová, to her two amendments, which are read under No. 3551 and 3552.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will ask Mr Novotný and Mr Laudát will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u46	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am signing up for my amendment under 'No'. 3321 relating to two parts. Firstly, I propose that the single centrally awarded entrance exams at secondary schools, from the Czech language and mathematics, are the only criteria for admission procedures for all secondary school founders. As a single criterion. Four criteria are currently being proposed, which I think will allow for speculation, the manipulation of results and so on. The second part concerns the compulsory final examination of mathematics, where I propose that the compulsory examination of mathematics be in all fields except those mentioned under Sections 62 and 85, which are talents. The reason is pretty clear. If we do this by choosing only a certain number of disciplines, today is a field of several hundred, and we choose from it sixty disciplines, where we will have to graduate from mathematics, it will result in pupils, of course, in the fields where math graduation will not go, and thus weaken what we wanted, what we promised and what is needed for our industry, that is, pupils will not go into fields such as electrical engineering, such as engineering and the like, because of course they will graduate from mathematics, but they will go into the fields of public administration and so on. So either math graduation should be in all the fields or nowhere. Making some exceptions and choosing a certain number of disciplines, I think, will only lead to weakening the disciplines we need, that is, technical disciplines. That's a short explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will now ask Mr Laudát. Mr Kudela will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u48	Thank you. I am obediently reporting that I am applying to the amendments in the system under No. 3688, 3480, 3676, 3677 and 3678. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u49	Thank you, too. Mr Kudela, now. Mr. Hovorka will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since I also went to kindergarten for about three months, I have prepared an amendment in which I recommend that the texts be brought together on when the kindergarten entry is being made and when the entry for individual education is being announced. Second amendment. The law allows individual education, it is said that children have to be tested after three and four months, but there is no longer talk about what will happen if the child does not meet any requirements that should be applied to it. So I suggest that this individual education can be terminated. I have inserted these two amendments into the system under No. 3720. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u51	Thank you, too. Now, then, Mr Fiedler. Did you agree to exchange order with Mr Hovorka? [[Mr. Caller was on the phone.]] Mr Hovorka will speak in a detailed debate and then you, Mr Fiedler. Come on, Mr. Hovorka. Come on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u52	I dare to make an amendment to this House press. The following point shall be inserted: in Section 16, the following paragraph shall be added: 6 and 8 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the possibilities of the school. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u53	Thank you, too. Now, then, Mr Fiedler. Mr Fichtner will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u54	I will briefly sign up for my amendments, which are in the system under No. 3118, this is the one concerning the regions, and then the amendment under No. 3319, where the Minister said that he was dubbed with another amendment containing a similar matter. I think the rapporteur will certainly be able to handle this in the voting procedure. The important thing is to make it right so it can work. Thank you, everything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u55	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Fichtner, in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u56	Good evening. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to subscribe to House document 3719, which is an amendment to the school law. In short, this amendment strengthens the position of the founder as one who guarantees the quality of education and enables the founder to withdraw the school director without giving any reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u57	Thank you. As I do not see anyone else reporting for a detailed debate, no one is reporting, I am ending the detailed debate. I ask the Minister and the rapporteur if you want to take the final words. It's not like that. Since no further proposals have been made, I am ending the second reading of this proposal. Thank you, colleagues and colleagues. Before I interrupt the meeting, Madam Secretary wants to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u58	I would like to thank all Members of Parliament for allowing them to pass through the second reading and spending their time today after a long three weeks. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-009-017.u59	Thank you, too. I wish you the rest of the day, and I'm interrupting the meeting by 9 o'clock tomorrow morning.
