ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u1	3. Draft law amending certain electoral laws and other related laws /German press 568/9/ - returned by the Senate The Senate returned the bill with amendments, his resolution being delivered as House press 568/10. I'm asking if Senator Eliška Wagnerová or Senator Radko Martínek is present. I see the Home Secretary, I'm going to ask him to take the floor at the newsstand so far. And if you don't, I'll take that the senators are excused. I therefore ask the Interior Minister Milan Chovanec to comment on the resolution of the Senate and the amendments tabled. . [[The Minister of Interior approaches the rhetorical site]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u2	I am, Minister, I apologize to you, but I have overlooked the chairman of the ODS with priority rights. . [[The Minister shall sit back at the rapporteur's table.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u3	I have a procedural proposal, and I'll give you a reason why. If I have good information, then the amendment approved by the Chamber of Deputies, with which the Senate does not so agree, was originally prepared by the Ministry of the Interior, so that, after being voted out by the government majority, the Ministry of the Interior went to the Senate with the fact that it was legislatively wrong. And she herself, the issue of the electoral costs, the third registered entities, is quite complex. I'd quite like the senators to shed some light on their progress. Because it looks like a complete technique, I don't think it's a technique, and I think it would be appropriate - I think we learned on the Grémium in the morning that the senators are counting on us to discuss all the laws that have been passed today. Well, if they're not here, then I suggest we stop discussing this point in the presence of the Senate's representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u4	I understand that, Mr President, but under the Rules of Procedure Act, I will, of course, vote on your proposal, but I note that the Chamber of Deputies, in view of the constitutional system, can discuss the bill returned by the Senate without the Senators. I'm just pointing it out, it's my duty as controller. So here is the proposal to suspend the negotiation of the electoral law and other laws related to the House press 568.9 and 10. We will decide on the suspension of this debate in voting 34, which I have begun and I ask who is in favour. Who's against interrupting this hearing? Thank you. Voting order number 34, from 149 in favour of 45, against 62. The motion was not accepted. So there is nothing left to do but continue, and I will therefore ask the Interior Minister Milan Chovanec to comment on the Senate's resolution and the amendments tabled for the plaintiff, the Government of the Czech Republic. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u5	Mr President, honourable Members, let me briefly remind you of the Government's bill amending some electoral laws and other related laws. The aim of the bill is to ensure greater transparency in the financing of electoral campaigns. The bill submitted is in line with the Government's programming declaration, under which the government has committed itself to tightening the system of financing political parties by introducing a spending limit for electoral campaigns. I agree with the Senate's amendment, as it is tabled. I note that, given that this is an electoral law, it is necessary for both the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate to adopt the proposal in the same wording. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u6	I thank the Minister for also drawing attention to Article 41 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, which concerns this. So I will now ask if you want to have a priority right for the debate. Until the debate, Mr President. [[Stanjuro]] So first, I shall ask Mr Chvojka for the constitutional committee as a guarantee committee if he wishes to comment as rapporteur on the Senate resolution? It's not like that. And for the inspection committee, Mr. Koníček? He's not interested either. In that case, I am opening the debate and giving the floor to the President of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjur in the debate. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u7	Thank you for the floor. I would like someone - either the Minister or the rapporteur - to explain to us the answers to my question. Here's the rapporteur. So I'll start an association I'll support Mr Chvojka when there's an election campaign. And I'll pay for five billboards that say don't vote for Chvojka. I can do that if I apply. And it's going to cost me, let's say 5 x 10,000, 50,000. I understand that, according to the House's version, this 50 000 would be added to Mr Chvojka's or his political party's electoral costs? That's what you voted for. That's a good guide on how to prevent a competing political party from doing anything because they're going to have a full limit. The Senate corrected it, but on the other hand, it did not actually cost us, so Mr Chvojka has a lot of friends all over the Republic who don't want to vote for him or want to vote for him, it doesn't matter - I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, it's really just as an example - but we have a ceiling for political parties in all types of elections, starting with regional, Senate, Houses and Presidential, but a ceiling for this, for the election ad that happens without the candidate's knowledge, which is also an interesting expression when it's positive, so I can see how it is without the candidate's knowledge: "I didn't know that at all, those thousands of billboards bought me friends." And that's not where the limit is. This is the Senate version? And I wonder what's better. Neither is good. And I'd like to hear the answer either to the minister, which is why I wanted those senators to come and explain to us that it's better not to give anyone a limit that buys us 10,000 billboards, and it's not going to go to the campaign. But we're gonna pretend that we've regulated campaign expenses, and we have an office that's gonna count our grades and our posters. But someone else who does a $100 million campaign without my knowledge doesn't count. And with a serious face here, we're saying that we're regulating expenses? It may not be good, but that's how I understood the difference between the Senate and the House version. I know that Mr Vondráček, who was very much taken for it, was involved. So tell me what's good. Or maybe they're both good examples. But then, seriously, you're going to say that we're regulating campaign spending? Well, just somebody. And no one at all. I can imagine I'm not going to name anybody, because then he complains terribly that they're all against him, so I'm not going to name him how many friends he has, companies, institutions, civil associations whose spending doesn't count to the Senate's limit, or whose expenses, if we use a negative campaign, according to the House's version, are going to count down on who the negative campaign is against. And we are saying very seriously here: and in line with the coalition treaty and the government's programming statement, we have tabled a bill that regulates spending on the political campaign. Yes, but only to someone, sometimes. I'd like you to either confirm these two cases or disprove them. I'm not saying I'm right. That's why I wanted to discuss it with the senators, what they meant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u8	Now a colleague of Mr. Plíšek is logged in, but do I feel that my colleague Chvojka wants a factual one? A colleague of Plíšek and then a colleague of Chvojka and a colleague of Vondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u9	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I had a similar reminder as my previous speaker. I have already warned the Chamber of Deputies that, on the one hand, we are introducing electoral limits on party spending on electoral campaigns, and on the other hand, we are allowing that law to be very leaky and to be circumvented in many ways. Senators figured one thing out. It seemed pretty absurd to me that the negative campaign of competition to another political party would be attributed to the party that is being talked about or against which the negative campaign is being made. It should be directed towards the advertiser or the election campaign. And this is one example. And it is clear that there are indeed more such holes in this law. I am terrified of the nearest elections to which this electoral law will apply, and I am very curious how the newly created Office for the Management of Political Parties will deal with this. The Authority will undoubtedly not be able to cope with the fact that private companies will pay and pay for the election campaign when private companies pay for advertising spots and politicians will perform in them, as we have seen in the advertising on the water chicken. So unfortunately, this law contains a lot of such leaky places. So I don't want us to say here that we've done a lot for some transparency in the funding of political parties. And it is precisely for the leakiness and inapplicability in some cases that we cannot support even the version approved by the Senate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u10	Thank you. Now a colleague of Chvojka and then a colleague of Vondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u11	Thank you for the floor. I've been asked by Chairman Stanjuro. I will not speak factually, but rather procedurally, as the law was discussed on the premises of the House and the Constitutional Legal Committee. He's been discussing himself for a long time. It is true that there have been quite a number of amendments that have tried to improve the original government proposal. Well, the provision concerning the campaign paid by third parties, and that is why colleague Vondráček volunteered, I remember that it was proposed by colleague Vondráček and that it was the original proposal of all our beloved Reconstruction of the State. I don't know now if I voted for him or didn't vote for him, it doesn't matter. As far as senators are concerned, I don't know their motivation, I don't want to speak for them, I wasn't the rapporteur who would handle this matter in the Senate, so they should comment on it. I don't want to speak for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u12	Thank you. Mr Vondráček's point of fact is now, then Mr Tejc. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u13	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate has been initiated - primarily the inspiration is Slovak. I know that, of course, the initiative was interested in this issue. Yes, I admit it was my amendment, it was not part of the original government proposal, so I should be talking about it, not the Minister or colleague Chvojka. But the problem is probably at the beginning of the basic premisa setup. It's not a goal here to try to regulate and limit all campaigns, because those third parties - I'm going to use the term of third parties... I don't think that's possible. I'm also in discussions with Slovak people - those who have had some experience with this... They say - it cannot be regulated, it cannot be completely eradicated by these mischiefs. The question is, if we didn't have this arrangement at all, could those third parties do it? I suppose so. And even without at least being registered. So it's not the point to regulate, but it's the point to at least bring it out into the light. At least let them go with their name on the light and their amount on the light. And then that responsibility remains purely political, not on the side of that office. And the phrase that these things are easy to go around... You can just go around. Not all ideas, such as the limits of the amount of gifts etc., were from the ANO movement. He'll always go around. It just needs to be done to some reasonable degree in front of the public. I hope we've looked at the legislation, not if it's bringing something, but first of all - is it hurting something, hurting someone, hurting someone? I dare say not in that sense. There is probably no perfect legal standard, but I think that this amendment has fulfilled its purpose, and what it intended, i.e. from banning the financial flows even for those persons who -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u14	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact is over. Now Mr Tejc's factual remark, then the preferential right of the Minister of the Interior and the President of the ODS. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u15	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that's what happens every time we give in to good proposals that are made at the last minute and do not have all the details accurately checked. However, in defence of the proposal, I would say that I completely disagree with the fact that the proposal can be interpreted in such a way that the limits, as it was said in the Senate, add up. However, nothing will happen if we approve the proposal in the Senate version, i.e. in a version that is not regulated by third parties. The only solution I spoke of on the committee is a solution that some have called unconstitutional. And this is that it would during the election campaign, for example. 60 or 90 days before election day, no one other than the registered political entities that have established limits was allowed to run an election campaign, which is, of course, defined. That's probably the only effective way. However, we have been warned that it could be unconstitutional because it would refer to the right to express its opinion freely on the subject of elections. Unfortunately, that's the problem that's here. I believe that the introduction of a limit for political parties is a step in the right direction. However, I recognise that, as President Stanjura has said, there may be a risk of circumvention on the part of those who are not registered and, above all, would have no limit. So I'm sure it's something to think about. But as I'm saying, I think it's less risky in this situation to approve a proposal in the Senate version.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u16	I thank Mr Jeroný Tejc for his time on the point of fact. And now with priority rights Mr. Interior Minister Milan Chovanec, then colleague Stanjura. Please, Minister, you have the floor. But before you start talking, I'm going to ask my colleagues to take their seats and disband the crowds of the House. We are voting on a very serious legal standard, which is subject to extraordinary rules from the Constitution, as the Minister has already said in his introductory words, because it is not possible to overvote the Senate. It is necessary for both chambers to reach an identical resolution. And it would be good for us to perceive this because it seriously regulates political work in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your peace. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u17	I here to explain the difference between the version of the Chamber of Deputies and the version of the Senate of the Czech Republic. From my point of view, the Senate has de facto made it possible for the political party to reject the negative campaign, because a third party campaign of up to 1.8 million. can only be counted with the consent of the political entity. If the version of the Chamber of Deputies, which was not prepared in this form by the Ministry of the Interior, were created here in the legislative process by a proposal from one of the coalition partners who did not consult us, but that is, of course, his holy right, then of course, it would be counted automatically. [[17,00 hours]] It follows that if I, as President Stanjura has told me, had I included, for example, the President, My recent campaign, so I wouldn't have any more limits. T and that now it is about the fact that this party can reject this campaign and has the right to say: This does not include the limit. From our point of view, from the point of view of the Ministry of the Interior, the Senate proposal is more logical and eliminated certain dangers that were there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u18	Thank you and now please contact the head of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u19	I would have responded to Mr Vondráček's words. He has this innocent face and he always says how he wants to do it all right and how he meant it well and that it's actually good. But basically, Mr Vice-President, you said that when a transport company owner orders a negative advertisement for coalition policy, in your excellent and transparent proposal, it will be deducted from their expenses and their limits on the election campaign. Such a nice, good, transparent proposal has been made and enforced in the Chamber of Deputies. I'm not saying it's not transparent, but it's totally crazy. Don't be mad at me. Add a negative third-party campaign in the House version to the limits of the one against which the campaign is headed negatively. And you're actually saying, "No, it's okay, as long as we know about it. But it's counting down from that limit. And that doesn't seem logical to me. The fact that we know this, some of them claim it, it's not even classified, is it? If someone takes it out, signs it, I think it's right, it shouldn't be anonymous advertising. On the other hand, the Minister says that the limit for a third person to use the same terminology is CZK 1.8 million. So if you find ten, it's already 18 million crowns. If you find 50 of them, and that's not such a significant number, that's about four in each region, and in some regions less than four, you're at 90 million, which the political party itself has as a limit. And if you find more than 50, like five in each region, you already have 70 times 1.8 million, third parties have a higher limit than a political party that runs a regular campaign. And you say, "Just as long as it's known." Ha. I don't know how many citizens read under that billboard, who ordered it. I don't know. Okay. Even if that were the case, at least don't talk about regulating election expenses. You don't do anything like that. You're just saying, we want to know who's paying for it. We have many idea, especially in your campaigns. We really do, we just have to look at the annual report, and who lends money to individual subjects sitting in the Chamber of Deputies, so we all know who's paying for it. That's not new information. But is it logical? I would understand if third parties combined had a limit, for example. 20 per cent or 25 per cent of what a political party has to make it always a minority, so it is not a majority. Or I would understand that a third party has a limit and at the same time a political party doesn't have a limit. But that's how you set it up. If there were 18 grand, it would be fine if they were small gifts. Why not, if there are 10,000 citizens, each of them will give 18,000. But not 1.8 million. So here I see the hypocrisy, the rhetoric, how we regulate something and reduce campaign costs, but really it doesn't have to be at all. I'm not saying it's gonna be like that when practice shows up. We're not gonna support the law in either version because of the question marks and the confusion about third parties. And linking the political view of every citizen who can express freely, with the fact that at the same time I have the right to order e.g. TV advertising for those 50 people for 100 million, I don't know if it's constitutional law that I have to have the right to order for 100 million campaigns. So we're always overreacting. I think it's perfectly okay for everyone to express in the campaign and hang on their fence "I support it, I choose it, don't vote for it." It's perfectly all right. And if we wanted to make it possible in some way, and I'm up for it, maybe we could take out the television, which, of course, has by far the greatest reach. Or billboards. I don't know if it's constitutional right to buy a billboard. It's not that I have a constitutional right to say my opinion. That's two completely different things. Next time, we could say that I have the right to a free billboard when I have less income so that I have the same chance of expressing my opinion on the field as my richer neighbor. And we would have gotten into some ridiculous proportions by now. So consider for yourself whether the law contributes. Personally, I'm good with campaign limits, but I didn't know that third parties would get in, and when we wanted to deal with them, we could say that third parties couldn't run a campaign, for example. 60 days in the form of paid advertising on TV, on radio and billboards. That is what I think could be in accordance with the Constitution, or the Constitutional Court would consider whether it is constitutionally conformal or not. This does not mean, as I said, that on all social networks, everywhere I can say my personal political opinion, who to vote for, who not, who I support and who I recommend not to vote for. I'm sorry - Mr Chvojka, I kind of summoned him, but only a little bit. I said either the Minister or the rapporteur. It's nice of me to hear this conversation, I know how it works. I asked if these two examples correspond to the reality in the House and the Senate version. Because I set them a little bit as an absurd example. I didn't see the answer to that, and I think that, unfortunately, yes, then you have to choose. Maybe the Senate version is a little bit more logical. But giving third parties power that they will determine the total amount of campaign costs and they will determine, and you have 90 million... Well, fuck you, nobody's gonna see you with that amount.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u20	Thank you. I'm recording two factual points. First to Mr Fiedler's microphone, then Mr Vondráček and then Mr Benda duly signed in. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u21	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. When we were discussing this press here in the House, if you remember, my colleagues, I said here that I was pausing on how simply, calmly, this law passed, how much was not discussed here, in my opinion, a very substantial law. And now here, what my colleague Stanjura said, we see exactly the consequences of underestimating this place. I just wanted to mention that I'm responding to what happened a little while ago. I put the amendments there, they didn't pass, it doesn't matter, you decided what you decided, but the simplicity of how this complex law passed through the House surprised me. But why did I sign up for a point of fact? In the meantime, I've been reading some House press, this one, I've been looking into history. Question for the Minister. I don't know, Mr. Secretary, if I've listened well or if I've been well aware of it. You said that this political entity would say that it would accept that it would be counted to its limit. Is that gonna be a positive ad or a negative ad? Who's gonna decide if it's a positive ad or if it's not a negative ad? What if, for example, I don't want to touch anyone, I'm not gonna name them specifically, some political party that's here in the House, they're gonna talk to someone about ordering him an ad campaign, he's gonna do his campaign, and then he's gonna say, "I don't want to go to the limit." Well, it's gonna increase the limit and the volume. If you could answer that, Minister. According to the discussion that is taking place here, it leads me to believe that I will be inclined to the opinion of my colleague Stanjura and I will probably not support one version, because we have managed to produce something here again that is such a failed cat dog.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u22	Thank you. Now, please, with Mr Vondráček's de facto opinion. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u23	Thank you for the floor. First, through you to Mr Stanjur. We're not really fighting. It's just that we all seem to see it from a different perspective, and we know about the problem. This proposal was adopted on the floor of the Constitutional Legal Committee after a proper discussion, after a proper discussion here, it wasn't from day to day. Any limits such as to give limits to third parties also sounded such things, but we seem to be at the limit of constitutionality again, as my colleague Tejc said, regarding the prohibition of any advertising at all. [[17.10 hours]] What are we up to? The end of anonymous campaigns, whether positive, negative, or offensive. There's always gonna be an equal to the electoral campaigner, there's gonna be an author. And the advertising service provider will have to respect that. Either there will be a political party, or there will be a third party known to be. No one else can do it under the threat of a fine. That's the point. That's what the proposal was all about. I cannot say that I am fully aware of the debate in the Senate, but I respect the fact that they thought about it there, say, slightly ad absurdum and accepted this clarification, and preserves the original idea of the matter. So I don't have a problem with that. Indeed, it was not the aim of regulating, but merely to point out the light and to avoid anonymous other election ads, election campaigns. And once again, if we didn't have that part at all, we'd probably be dealing with this mess because of the limits we're putting in place to a higher degree than we might be dealing with. Time will tell. Last sentence. We are setting up a new office to address this issue. The law clearly states that campaigns will be judged on whether they are done with or without the knowledge of a particular entity. I understand that this may cause a problem sometimes in practice, but perhaps we all have to assume that some quality of that office and common sense will work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u24	Your time, Mr. Ambassador. [[Messenger. Thank you.]] Thank you. Now please, with Prime Minister Dienstbier's priority right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u25	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, I would like to make a brief description of how the Senate negotiations took place, respectively. The argument, though I'm not responsible for the Senate to perform here. The proposal approved in the Senate is based on simple logic. In principle, it is not possible to prohibit third parties from campaigning and communicating their views during the campaign, as Jeroným Tejc mentioned here, because, of course, the most consistent and controlled solution would be such a ban, but the Senate did not think that it was possible to ban third parties under any circumstances. I think he's okay. There may also be subjects who do not want to support a party or campaign against it, but they want to express or comment on the party's attitudes to a particular problem, and it is probably not quite okay for them to forbid it. In such a case, however, it is not acceptable for a campaign of such entities that are campaigning for or against a party without agreement with it to be counted against its limit. That would, of course, be completely pointless, because it would be possible to purposefully eliminate the campaign of the party, because it could actually end the limit on purpose. The limit for individual entities that register and participate in the campaign is set. There is, of course, a certain risk that there may be a large number of subjects, which means that the amount is being loaded. But here, of course, it is not a gap in legislation in a situation where the majority in the Senate decided not to rule out a third party campaign. I would compare it to competition law. It doesn't have a gap either, it's not faulty because there are cartels. The sanctions may come in a situation where the cartel proves to be. If the cartel doesn't prove itself, even if it is, there's no penalty. This is not the error of the law, it is basically a general legal regime. And so will it in this case. If someone runs a campaign without an agreement with the political party, it doesn't count. If it is proven that there is actually an agreement with that party and that it is circumventing the law in this way, then of course there will come sanctions. But it can't be better in the right to set it, and the reasons why the Senate approved it in this way, I think they're clear from this. And maybe one last comment. I said that in the Senate, too. This legislation is not an exhaustive adjustment to the financing of electoral campaigns once and for all. Everywhere in the world, where they have adopted similar legislation, they regularly return to this, respond to experience from practice and supplement it, improve it. There are also new ways of running the campaign, new ways of financing, and there is a need to respond to that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u26	Thank you. I note one factual remark made by Mr Fiedler. I ask him for a microphone, then a priority right, Minister Chovanec, and then a proper application by Mr Benda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u27	Thank you. Senator Dienstbier here partly answered a question that I raised against the petitioner to the minister, but he did not refute my doubts, because Senator Dienstbier and Minister Dienstbier here said that if this campaign was not arranged, you would not count on it, and if it was agreed, but it would not be admitted, it would then be proved and sanctioned. And here's the catch! When will he prove it? When the election's over? That's funny! Remember, colleagues, when we vote on something here, we're going to set up a new office, and I'm starting to have very serious concerns about the functionality of what we want to introduce. I am not at all opposed to tightening the rules on election campaigns. On the contrary, I very much support this, but I am becoming increasingly in doubt as to whether what we are debating here is really being thought through in such a detailed way, and, on the contrary, this raises more, new and new question marks. How long are we going to judge whether or not this was arranged? Who's gonna judge? What will be the right of appeal? An appeal period? It's very, very unclear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u28	Thank you. Now please, with the priority right of the Minister of the Interior. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u29	Madam President, honourable Members, I may have made a bad statement earlier. Well, I'll try to get it to work. The office that is being created, of course, the things we are talking about, will negotiate with him in advance. This means that anyone who wants to support a political entity must first register. If the political entity disagrees with the campaign to be conducted, this third party may spend up to a maximum of 1.8 million. CZK with the fact that it does not count to the limit of the electoral campaign. This is because Mr Dienstbier mentioned that someone may wish to express their opinion on that political party in the form of a negative campaign or at least in a way that the political party or political entity or candidate entity simply disagrees with and simply disagrees with. If the third party has the consent of the political entity, i.e. the candidate entity, the campaign may, of course, be greater than 1.8 million, but up to the maximum limit for each type of election. This means, this is the mechanism that is here, but in advance registration, and if a third party would also spend more than 1.8 million in a negative campaign without the consent of the candidate entity. CZK, will receive quite a fine from the new office. The fine is powerful enough to change the third person's mind. If we had adopted the legislation of the Chamber of Deputies, de facto without the consent of the political party, anyone could have made a campaign up to the total limit and, in principle, would have prevented the political entity from campaigning, or at least there would have been a dispute over which campaign is which. For this reason, I find the Senate proposal more logical, which is why the Ministry of the Interior supports it in the draft that is to be voted on today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u30	Thank you. And now, I beg you, Mr Benda's microphone with a proper application. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u31	I am so sorry, Madam Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I think it's absolutely tragic that there's no Senate representative here and that we can't really finish this. I don't know which one of you knows what kind of text is in that law right now. I'm not sure myself. And I'm wondering if the minister actually knows what we regulate and what we don't regulate. I've been trying to put this together all along, and I doubt that the interpretation that's being interpreted here is meaningful at all. The senators didn't wake up, or at least I didn't feel like the senators woke up. The Home Office woke up, at least from the news I got from the Senate that started saying it had to be regulated differently. [[17.20 hours]] I'll just recap. Mr Vondráček's proposal was tabled here 17. 3, 30. 3. has been approved by the Constitutional Committee. The second reading was 12. 4, 25. 5. and 1. 6. They were all clean for two months to study it. 15. 6. Constitutional Committee before third reading, 29. 6. Approved in this House at third reading. And now someone comes to the Senate over the summer and starts saying that it's all wrong and that registered third parties are the same as third parties. And it will be said: it would be in danger that a registered third party will be counted to the political party's limit, and therefore we must remove those against whom it disagrees from the political party's limit. But please, I really want to know who knows what section 16 is today. (c) paragraph 3, to which the Senate provides an exception. If I correctly have the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, the amounts which the candidate political party, political movement or coalition, their candidate or independent candidate have paid or are to pay, including the amounts which they have paid or have undertaken to pay third parties, shall be included in the amount referred to in paragraph 2. This text shall be inserted in accordance with the resolution of the Senate "with their knowledge'. And we feel like we've regulated something. And I'm afraid we've only fatally opened it. Because this is third-party participation in the regular election campaign of the candidate entity. And here somebody can suddenly come, like the poor unelected president suddenly happened, that after he became Minister of Finance, the electoral debts were paid for -- here somebody can come and say, "Well, I'll pay for you. I don't participate as a special person in an election campaign, I don't have any registration at all. I am paying their debts for them." And when, and suddenly, he's not conscious of them, he says, "I was unconscious."is it possible to pay the debt? I fear that this Senate version brings far greater complications and far greater risks than that which it has brought to the House, and that it may lead to the fact that, in addition to the campaign of those third parties that we all know are going to regulate very complexly, we have yet to completely deregulate the campaign of political parties. I would ask that we now consider whether the text, including the resolution of the Senate, should be projected - because we know that we cannot go back to the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, we are in some kind of trap of electoral laws - that it is actually reproduced as we are getting it, or made available to us so that we know what will be voted on so that there is someone here for the Senate and able to defend their version. I'm really saying -- and it's composed of the press that they brought us here like this, the senát didn't give any reason, nor did he give his standard justification for that. And I'm afraid if we approve the Senate version, we're going a much worse and much more dangerous way. And we could've totally bailed on the registration of third parties if we said that I was on my campaign, on my campaign when someone was contributing to me, and I said, "It was without my knowledge."so it doesn't count for my campaign.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u32	Thank you. Now, to the microphone of the ODS leader Zbyněk Stanjura and then Minister Chovanec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u33	First of all, we're not under any time pressure. The first elections to be made are the House elections in about 13 months. I really think we made a mistake not interrupting the negotiations to have the Senate representatives here. When Minister Dienstbier spoke of the lessons learned from the campaign and then the amendment of the law, we already had one campaign here, where there were limits to electoral spending. My colleague Marek Benda was talking about it. Is it normal for unpaid invoices to remain, and then when the candidate becomes Minister of Finance, someone paid for the invoices, and we pretend that everything went transparently and brilliantly? And isn't Marek Benda right that we opened it with this? That I'm gonna order it, I'm not gonna pay, and then I'm gonna say, "I don't know about it. And this fellow here paid $85 million for us, but without our knowledge."? That's not normal. I really recommend stopping the negotiations, the press as if, in the up-to-date version of the motion after the Senate, printing it, asking the senators to come clean and explain it. Then nothing happens if we postpone it, because it doesn't apply logically this year's elections, and the next elections are in about 13 months, unless someone is planning early elections. But that would have to be 120 Members and Members in this Chamber of Deputies, and I do not think so. We're really not under time pressure, and there's no reason. And it really bothers me - I know it doesn't have to be here, and I didn't even object that we can't negotiate without senators present, but right at the point where both chambers have to agree, there's not a single leg from the Senate. I can't remember how Vice-President Filip read the list of those senators - I felt that this was the attendance list from their meeting, unless we voted that they could get off tonight. And not a foot. I don't know. I don't think the Senate needs a deal with the House. Then I have another solution, perhaps even better. If we don't want to interrupt, let's take five minutes, let's try to agree, let's say no, and as the classic in a famous Czech film says, Minister: again and better, Mr Administrator. And we can go back to that and consider all the risks. If the government can send us rejected laws in three days' time or three weeks' time, if it's about the SAO, then what couldn't the government send back a draft electoral law in, like, three months' time? That would still be okay before the next election campaign. Or all the risks we're talking about, somebody knows, modeled them into the bill, and they're already preparing a campaign to know how he's gonna be the one who's gonna use the new rules, and the other competitors are gonna wonder what else can be paid by a third registered person or third party in regulation and maximum limit of electoral expenses. The fact that we already have two categories and we talk about one, one, and each of them is viewed by the law in a completely different way. So, I'd like to formally propose that we interrupt this point by next Tuesday, and we've got it, if the House approves it, so that we can get the bill, including the elaborate changes from the Senate. I believe the Senate senators will come to explain. That's the first step. If you don't approve, I recommend that we don't support the Senate version, so we have a new opportunity to think about it and minimize the risks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u34	Yes, I'll take a vote on your proposal. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. I'll check you all out. I'd like you all to register with your cards. We will now vote on Mr Stanjura's procedural proposal to interrupt this point by next Tuesday, i.e. 13. 9. Initiating vote and asking who's in favour. Press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with serial number 35, to which 147 are registered. For 61, versus 66. The motion was denied. I have a point of fact here, I have to put it first. Mr Vondráček, please. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u35	I would like to congratulate my colleague Stanjur on the quality of opposition work when he wants to delay this law here. However, the issue of third parties is indeed in a way not the main one. I don't mean to say marginal, but it's not the substance of the proposal. These electoral laws bring far more important things. They are linked to the law on association in political parties, which has already passed both chambers and is, I believe, at the signature of the President. Now I want to ask. I'm so slow, I'd rather ask. So there's going to be some presidential campaign where we already have a limit, so the candidate can't leave more debt than the limit, because he's already kind of moved in those boundaries, and they're going to stay unpaid. [[17.30 hours]] And if anyone comes in third, they'll pay for it, but they'll keep the limit. If someone came in after the election right now, and the ex-post would be paying something that exceeded that limit, it's no longer registered. The law will be broken again. So I think it's being treated, including all the questions my colleague Benda asked himself. I think we have answers to them, and I'm sorry I didn't think of the argument with the cartels. There will simply prove whether it was with or without consciousness. Whether it was a secret or a public deal, it wasn't. But really the point of this whole proposal is just to eliminate those anonymous campaigns, not regulate them. And that's probably the basic barrier, why can't we just get a normal deal, but this is where we're going to have this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u36	Thank you. I'm recording two factual points. Minister, you have to wait. I ask the Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip and Mr Zdeněk Stanjura after him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u37	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I see this differently than my colleague Vondráček said. This is not a question of opposition work. Please, this is the law on political parties, on the financing of the electoral campaign, and in this respect, forgive me if anyone is in opposition or coalition, they are in the same boat. And we have a really serious problem here with exposing ourselves to the fact that third parties registered, unregistered, yet Mrs. Senator Wagnerová described in that document she sent from the Senate, the change that occurred in the Senate, changes the rules. So let's say if we're even going to regulate something, give it new rules, or cloud it all. That is, of course, an essential matter. The fact that we are setting up an office that this office is fundamentally breaking through Article 5 of the Constitution, the free competition of political parties, is a risk to the political regime, because, forgive me, 15 bureaucrats or how many you set up there will be controlled by hundreds of thousands of political party members, because there are over 150 registered with us. And now I'm not saying how many political parties have (?). But in this respect, we assign bureaucracy over political parties, over their free competition, and regulate the means that contradict the fact that this competition is free because it has registered unregistered third parties. That's gonna be a hell of a mess. That's gonna be a fucking mess! And you want to take responsibility for that! I'm sorry, I'm not!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u38	Thank you. Now, please, to the microphone with Mr Stanjura's de facto maid. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u39	Mr Vondráček, by your Presidency. Typical example of what you said, insults. I'm against anonymous campaigns. I was very clear. And it's not that I'm in opposition. You haven't answered my question once about how excellent your proposal is, so you signed up for it, and today you're plotting for the Senate version. Well, at least admit that what you've pushed is wrong if nothing else. And don't examine my motives if I'm saying this, why I'm in opposition or not. [[Because?]] And don't value it. Honor what I said and what I asked, not my motives. I'm really begging you. I'm not telling you that your motive could be to cloud everything. This is what Vice-President Filip was wearing, and I often disagreed with him, and he was right. You're just gonna make a mess of it, and you're gonna clap and we're gonna say how great it is. You don't mind if someone gets elected president and then someone pays their debts? As long as it's known! But it's not known at the moment of the campaign! What are the sensible sanctions for this... For one mandate in the House there is only a net contribution for the parliamentary term of CZK 3.6 million. So let's imagine that by exceeding the campaign, some parties will get 10 extra mandates, 36 million net money from the state budget of all taxpayers. What's the penalty for someone crossing that limit? It's going to be 36 million, respectively. More so it doesn't pay off? Will it or won't it? It won't. Instead of arguing or denying our concerns, you will say: I congratulate you on your opposition work, you do not want this law. I don't want the wrong law. I've already said in the last term that I'm up for a limit, but it's got to have a head and a heel. I'm against anonymous campaigns, anonymous ads, anonymous billboards. If anyone has a right and has a right to express himself, I think he has an obligation to sign. So there's no dispute at all. So don't look for a dispute where it isn't, and try to argue factually against our concerns and reservations. [[Attention on time.]] That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u40	Thank you. Mr Vondráček, with a factual point, will now be prepared by Mr Fiedler, also a factual point. And then, Mr Benda, with the facts. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Through you to a colleague. You added that sarcasm to the commentary. I didn't say it. You just used the tools that the opposition has to open the whole thing up so the whole place can be dealt with again, even though we all know we're trapped by the electoral law. We can't change this place anymore. So much for explaining. I certainly didn't want to attack you in any way personally. That bitch wasn't on my side. There's always someone paying for that president's campaign. It was never like he was paying for it himself. But the moment he pays, he'll have the limit and he can't pay more. I just don't understand you in this argument. If he exceeds his campaign costs, he's out of bounds, he's outlawed, he'll be sanctioned. And it can't be healed by someone showing up and paying for it. That's what happened in the past. Yes, I know that, but we want to fix it with the law. It won't happen again. [[Member Stanjura opposes from the scene.]] How can it not be fixed? I don't think you're right. I'm open to any discussion, let's keep talking about it, but the example you gave, so I just answered it. So please don't tell me I'm not responding to your material comments. I'll be happy to talk to you anytime.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u42	Thank you. I beg you, Mr Fiedler, in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u43	Thank you for the floor. I was particularly interested in the words said by my fellow Member Vondráček. We're trapped by the electoral law. I'm wondering what it means to be trapped by the electoral law. Is this a trap that shuts us down, that we made something bad - or, as I understand it, are we trapped by the electoral law? I'm starting to feel that this is really not a good thing, what we have to decide now. And also through Madam President, Mr Vondráček. It also really touched me, as did colleagues from the opposition, that it was a demonstration of opposition work. I really refuse to do that. But then I have to think about this vote from this point of view. A very pragmatic proposal by Stanjura - let us interrupt, not reject. We said, let's stop it, think about making the right decision. But when I looked at the board, who voted both, and Mr Vondráček, through Madam President, it was coalition work. The result of the vote, I'm sorry, that was coalition work, what you did. No, we'll push through it. We don't care if we do this or if we don't discuss whether we make the right decision. It was just the coalition job. I'm sorry, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u44	Thank you. I beg you, Mr Benda, and Mr Stanjura will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u45	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am so sorry to devote myself to the text of the law. It may be inappropriate in this debate because we are regulating something, but I am very much asking that we actually deal with the text, the text of the law. What the Senate did, perhaps in good faith - I think in confused good faith, because, in my view, in the original interpretation, there is no way that registered third parties running a campaign could count among those who paid for the candidate or for the candidate party's costs. They put them in themselves, we regulated them in some way. And now we're saying that if the Senate's wording is what the Senate says and where we really please read 16 c) par. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 is the limit, the parts that candidates have paid or are to pay, including the amounts that they have paid, with their knowledge, or have undertaken to pay for, third parties. [[17.40 hours]] That means, if it was without their knowledge, for them, for them as an orderer - I order a $100 million campaign for myself, it's not for any third person, it's for me - and somebody's gonna pay me half of it. And suddenly, the magic of these words, the words delivered - when I say 'it was not with my knowledge', they do not count to the limit, Mr Vondráček, through Madam President. That's what I'm afraid of. That's what I'm saying, there's a danger that I'm saying I can pay for someone during the campaign. And when they say, it was without his knowledge, so suddenly it doesn't fall within the limit? [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u46	Thank you, and now please, with Mr Stanjura in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u47	I'm free to go. Yes, it is as Mr Benda said. But as Mr Vondráček says, at least we know about it. But it's a good thing we know about it. We're really in agreement. I don't want to be ironic, and I really think we need to know who's paying for the campaign. But then the limit doesn't make any sense. Then you don't pay your premise, which you've been defending here, that -- he paid for it, nothing's happening, he didn't cross. But after the Senate is adjusted, it doesn't count to that limit. Then why do we have to limit the political parties? And then I have one specific question. I told you how much the political party gets. To keep me out of the House, I will tell the Senate, Senate elections - six years, 6 x 900 = 5.4 million CZK for the state contribution during this mandate the political party will receive. How much is the fine? Can any of those who want to vote in favour tell me how much the penalty is, if he has obtained the mandate with the limits allowed? How much is a fine if that political party gets $5.4 million for that mandate? It's above 5.4 million, isn't it? I don't know, I'm not testing you. I'm just asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u48	Thank you. And now, please, with Mr Fiedler's factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u49	When I listen to my colleagues, I am glad that this law has finally been stirred up on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, a debate that I have missed in the proper hearing in the Chamber of Deputies. And what my colleague Stanjura said here. I'm still sorry here, but I'll get back to what my fellow MP Vondráček recorded. Isn't that the coalition tactic? Just run it through the House before we figure out the holes? And one more thing I forgot about the last performance. What Minister Chovanec said here - and that is no reproach at all, Minister - is merely a statement. We're basically starting to talk about the fact that we're taking note that there are going to be some negative election campaigns. It scares me enough that we're starting to accept it, that we're talking about it as reality, that this is going to count. Please, colleagues, let's remember where we're getting to. That we're starting to acknowledge that a negative campaign, a top campaign, is going to be a common thing. It's just to the edge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u50	Thank you. Now please to the microphone with the priority right of Minister Chovanec, after him Minister Babiš. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u51	Madam President, honourable Members. By your means, I would like to answer Mr. Benda about who woke up. We have had a negative opinion all along, even when we were discussing the constitutional committee, on the proposal of Mr Vondráček. It wasn't a wake-up call. We have been saying all along what the risk is to this proposal. The amendment before you today, which is from the Senate workshop of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, has been consulted with us. That means, I have been consulted by our specialists in this area, agreed that this form, as it is here, is impeccable. That she's not a problem. About the draconian fines I was talking about. If the party exceeds the limits for the election campaign, from what it exceeds, it pays 1.5 times. That means it pays 50 percent more than it's exceeded. If it exceeds by a million, the fine is CZK 1.5 million. To me, this seems to be a rather significant penalty against the candidate. I don't know if it's going to be a negative campaign or a positive campaign. This is about whether it's the campaign that the candidate wants. Some might view a campaign as negative, some as neutral, some as positive. The point here is that the subject who wants to enter a political contest should register and have the consent of the political entity concerned to whether or not it will be counted against their limits. That is what the Senate amendment is going to do. From my point of view, the standard, as it is now in Senate form, is a step in the right direction. It cannot be excluded that over time it will change, like any standard that goes through certain developments. The question of the presidential candidate and the payment of campaign debts. I think that anyone who receives funds must admit it as a gift, must tax it, must pay a donation tax. And if there is any doubt about transparency or the reasons for providing funds, then there is a real chance to turn to the Police of the Czech Republic to investigate. If there's such a doubt. We live in a state of law. These are the legal instruments we have, and I think they're sufficient.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u52	Thank you. And now, with Mr Chvojka in fact, after him with priority rights, Minister Babiš. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u53	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Just one more time for the trial. I would like to respond by your means to colleague Fiedler, because I am a little angry with what he is saying. Of course, there are laws that have been going on for a long time, and there are laws that are going on for a shorter time. I must say that both the law that governs funding and the law that governs association, the larger law, both the laws, or both the amendments, were discussed at the terms of the Chamber of Deputies for quite a long time. This electoral law was on board about three or four times. I have to say, there was a debate there. Even the representatives of your party, or no longer your party, had various comments about it, and they are sometimes right. So it's not that this is some proposal that was approved, that he went to the House in January and ran through the committee, and the opposition had no right to speak to him, and in April he approved at third reading. It's not true. That's what Minister chovanec says. Sometimes all the flies don't work out. I, of course, cannot, as rapporteur, assume what problems may or may not arise. They can appear with the Office for the Management of Political Parties and Movements. But we'll see about that in the run. But the principles of this law are somehow progress compared to what was here for the previous 20, 25 years. There were no limits, these things didn't work out. So that's a big step forward. I repeat once again, and my colleague Vondráček will not be mad at me for this, perhaps it will be a memento for the future. The amendment came from sometime hated, someone loved Reconstruction of the State. I didn't vote for him. And it's really memento for the future that probably not everything they're presenting can be right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u54	Thank you. And now, please, with the priority right of the Minister of Finance, Andrej Babiš. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u55	Thank you for the floor. Today I was accused of breaking the law, by Mr Kalousek and Mr Korte, for which I have stated, following consultations with the Customs Administration, that they are both lying. And I can only confirm that they're both lying. Because under Law No. 17/2012 § 65 The Minister of Finance sends a report to the Permanent Commission for the Control of the Use of Detachments to Customs Administration. In 2013, I signed it 29. 10. 2014 pod č.j. I signed it in 153/14/31 and in 2014 I signed it 2. 10. 2015 pod č.j. V241/15/31. Here's the delivery to the Chamber of Deputies. [[He's pointing.]] It's in the reserved mode. [[17.50 hours]] So the reports are inside, delivered by the Customs Directorate General, Department 31, Chamber of Deputies, Parliament of the Czech Republic, secret file room. [[reads:]] A receipt for receipt of a classified document. He took over PhDr Jan Gabriel, Secretary of the Standing Commission for the Control of the Use of Wiretapping of the Customs Administration. [[He's showing the paper again.]] So here's proof that Mr. Korte got the 2013 report for 2014, and that he's lying and that Mr. Kalousek is lying. So I'm calling on him to apologize, because for the dozens of lies that went away here, it's obviously problematic to have clear evidence. But it is enough to see how much the subsidies for biofuels this year, from the state budget in six months, for example, CZK 350 000. The business is over. So again, I call on Mr Kalousek to apologize, and Mr Korte, because they both lie. I didn't break any laws, and I'm fulfilling my duties as Finance Minister under the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u56	Thank you. I note three factual points - Mr Stanjura, Mr Laudát and Mr Korte. So first, please, to Mr. Stanjura's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u57	I'm sure I know the rules of procedure. I know whoever's equipped with a priority right doesn't have to talk to the point. And I'm one of them, so I use it sometimes. But after quite excited and I would say a rather substantive debate on electoral laws, the Minister of Finance will come up with his exposé. I do not know what to do about it, how he contributed to the debate - a factual reminder. And there's been a violation of the Rules of Procedure. That's the law when we take the floor today, who broke the law. Because it is to respond to what has been said in the debate on this point from the previous speakers. At this point, we did not really talk about customs, Minister. Luckily. I don't miss it at all that we haven't talked about customs at this point. You totally broke the debate. But completely. [[A mockery from the Yes benches. The noise level is increasing.]] And now I don't know if we really need time to discuss the club, what we're gonna do with the law, because if we're gonna debate customs and some of the MPs are gonna run around here and say, "You're lying, no, you're lying... If it's even for the law, I don't mind at all. But it's completely out of order. I'm not saying the Treasury Secretary couldn't have said that. I could. But what good does that do us? You could have had a press conference, Minister. [[Minister Babiš responds from the government bench: I'll do it again!]] It's okay. No one can stop you. But I don't know if you've responded to this pretty serious debate about who can pay for election expenses, who can't, who counts, who is counting down. You totally broke it with your act. And when you complain again that you're not going as fast as you wanted, remember how it looks today from 2:00 p.m. and who's talking to the point and who's not. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u58	Your time, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u59	It's gone. Thanks for the heads-up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u60	I would like another de facto, and that is Mr Laudát. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u61	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I'm more or less gonna say the same thing. Since the Minister didn't report priority rights, he started talking completely out of the way to something else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u62	I'm sorry, I said Mr. Babiš goes with priority rights. I told you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u63	Well, I'm sorry. However, really, and it's not the first time, I remember... And when someone's watching the debate, they have to think that we're all already mature in the psych ward, because I did something before the meeting, before the program was approved, sometimes in June I criticized him, after which he woke up at half one and completely broke up the consumer credit debate. Now he did the same thing when his friends on the phone gave him the background. And this really doesn't serve, because then we can really act in the sense of the Arab saying, how Arab went after the Sahara and met the other Arab and asked him, "Please, what time is it? He answers: 35 in the shadows. And the following answer was, "Thank you, I don't smoke. And you're acting like that. Please. Like, really, when someone's looking at it, you can't listen to it anymore. Well, at least wait till the point is settled, do your inter-entry with anything. And then at least it has some logic. But breaking up a debate like that is very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u64	Thank you. I would now like to address Mr Korte's microphone with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u65	Thank you. I really don't want to thwart the debate on such an important law here, so I don't want to talk about what the Minister has tried to establish. For the Minister: I call the inspection body for Thursday 13 hours. I ask the Minister to appear with appropriate evidence that he has submitted a report for 2013, 2014, 2015 and the first half of 2016. That's all. There'll be plenty of room to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u66	Thank you. And now I beg you, Mr Fiedler, in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u67	It's gonna be for the speaker's performance, not for the point that's shining on our board. I would like to challenge Mr - now I don't know who first, because he will always be one offended that I named him first. So I would like to call on Mr. Babiš and Mr. Kalousek, and I will say it backwards, Mr. Kalousek and Mr. Babiš, to leave the shootings here in the House. I think it's bothering the citizens to listen to this, it's bothering us MPs in the House. I see it in the House today. I saw it last week on Wednesday on the budget committee. Please, just stop it. Take it up with the election election who wins. And stop with all your invectors and gunfires, and last week on Wednesday at the countdown by swearing and earlier nasty assaults, both the Chamber of Deputies and the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-003-003.u68	Thank you and I ask if anyone is joining the debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the debate. Before we proceed to the vote, I will convene my colleagues from the lobby and use the moment and load up the apology of Mrs Matušovská, who apologizes for today's meeting from 18:00 to the end of the day for personal reasons. We shall now proceed to the vote under Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the draft law amending certain electoral laws and other related laws, according to the House press 5689, as approved by the Senate, according to the House press 568/10'. Before I begin the vote, I will sign you all off and ask you to re-enlist with your cards. At this point, I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a 37-order vote, in which 152 are present, for 92, against 36. I note that we have adopted the bill as approved by the Senate, and I conclude the discussion of this point. We will now proceed to discuss the next point and that is
