ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-013-999.u1	United debate on points 8, 9, 10 / House prints 411, 412, 413/ I register two applications, Mr Votava and Mr Plíšek. I shall first ask Mr Votava. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-013-999.u2	Thank you for your word. Madam Vice-President, colleagues, colleagues, very briefly. We are in the second reading of the Constitutional Act on budgetary responsibility, so-called. the financial constitutions, as well as the related law on the rules of budgetary responsibility and related laws. They return to plenary after more than a year and a half. I want to say that the Czech Republic is obliged to implement Council Directive 211 85 - that was also mentioned here by Minister Babiš - and this implementation should have been implemented by the end of 2013, so we are at some delay. A three-fifth majority of the Chamber of Deputies is needed to adopt a constitutional law. The government coalition does not have three fifths, it may lack nine votes, maybe eight votes, maybe ten votes, as conditions change, and as some Members move from one club to another - in which I am slowly no longer orienting myself, where who belongs and how they will vote - however, the coalition's votes are missing. I mentioned here that there was a meeting of representatives of individual clubs in December last year. I also mentioned in my last speech who attended the meeting, and there the various representatives of the various clubs made their demands, when they actually made them subject to the adoption of these demands to add their votes to the constitutional law. It must also be said that the European Union does not strictly require a constitutional law on budgetary responsibility to be adopted. We are obliged to adopt a law on budgetary responsibility, so it can also be a common law. However, of course, the constitutional law has its seriousness and cannot be easily changed, disturbed, etc., future political representation would not be able to intervene so easily, whereas the normal law gives that possibility. But unfortunately, there hasn't been an agreement yet. I can also welcome the proposal made by Mr Plíšek to renegotiate. Of course, we do not defend ourselves, on the contrary, as I say, we would like to see this constitutional law adopted and thus approved by the constitutional majority. I would just mention perhaps the demands of the parliamentary clubs, perhaps they will supplement me or they will talk about it themselves, so as not to distort it, the statements are contained in the minutes of the meeting. For example, the Civil Democratic Party demanded - I will say this very briefly - that what is mentioned in the rules of budgetary responsibility should also be mentioned in the constitutional law, but this is a legislative problem. That is why we have said, on the basis of the expression of our legislation, that it is not possible, that we should not indulge the constitutional law, that it should be general and that the rest should therefore be in the rules. But I can see that my colleague Stanjura is shaking his head, so he's probably gonna have his way with it. As regards TOP 09, TOP 09 had a fundamental requirement of accession for the contract. Fiscalcompact to the head three budget pacts - and four, yes, thank you for reminding us - where we are, and now I speak for social democracy, they said yes, we will be obliged to do so when we are in the euro area. [[voice from the diaper]] That we do not see at present the reason why we should approach this, no one is forcing us to do so. When we enter the eurozone, it will be our duty to enter it. Even though we signed up for a fiscal compact. A representative of Dawn made a request in the form of an amendment - he is also put into the system - that measures relating to drafts of the state budget and budgets of state funds and their results be supplemented by a ban on raising income tax. Representatives of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia did not attend the meeting, I do not know whether they were invited or not invited, I do not know. However, I know their views, and I know them from the discussions in the Committee on Budgets, when - if I distort it, fill me in again - they were of the opinion that the regulation was too hard for the whole public sector and, above all, they wanted to remove health insurance companies from the public institutions sector. This means that those requirements do not apply to debt brakes, to health insurance companies. So I briefly summarized the conditions of the various parliamentary parties. So if the constitutional law on budgetary responsibility does not come through, the coalition has the strength to vote - I believe it has the strength to vote - the rules, the general law, so the general law would apply. I, together with my colleagues from KDU-ČSL and YES, have already prepared an amendment, respectively. amendments that are included in the system and which would respond to this. This means that some of the things that are in that constitutional law would be transferred to that Act on the rules of budgetary responsibility. In a detailed debate, I will then sign up for these amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-013-999.u3	I thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and please give Mr. President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura Club priority. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-013-999.u4	Thank you for the floor. My performance will be a little longer. I would like to present and explain in detail the position of the Civil Democratic Party and offer a compromise to the Government, which could support more than 120 Members of our House. I mean, the financial constitution - if I can use this in my opinion, a more precise and not completely legally formal name - is our long-term programme goal. During the last parliamentary term, we pushed through the government and sent a draft financial constitution to the Chamber of Deputies, then we held negotiations with the opposition, we did not reach a compromise, so the law ended after the House was dissolved. [[16.00 hours]] We can debate today and four proposals have been made during this period of the last four or five years. The first was our government's proposal. This was followed by representatives of political parties at the Ministry of Finance, where they clarified their positions. Then, in this parliamentary term, a proposal was made by colleagues from the TOP 09. This was House press number 24, which the Chamber of Deputies rejected. The proposal of the Ministry of Finance, which was sent by the Minister of Finance in May 2014 into a commentary procedure, was then made and the result was the proposal of Sobotkův's government of February 2015 and these are the three House prints that we are discussing today. If we look inside all four designs, all four work with three tools. The first is the creation of the National Budget Board, the second is the introduction of a debt brake and the third is how to deal with the management of self-governing bodies. I would gradually address these three sections or three issues. The National Budget Board. I'd say here's basically the easiest deal. All four proposals differ very slightly. Its task is to monitor the development of management in the public institutions sector, to evaluate budgetary responsibility rules, in particular compliance with numerical fiscal rules. The number of members varies from three to five for each proposal, my Chamber of Deputies voting for them, the number of employees is estimated to be between 10 and 15, annual costs up to 50 million. Kč. The Czech National Bank's budget is intended to be used for the castle. When we evaluate the four proposals, they differ very slightly and we are ready to support the proposal put forward by this government. The differences are really very small and there is no point in leading a serious debate to the financial constitution about whether there will be three or five members and who will vote for them, who will propose them. The purpose will be fulfilled. The budgetary costs are indeed in the tens of millions of crowns per year, which is no high amount. The second area, and there are the biggest differences of opinion, is the debt brake. If we compare the four proposals I was talking about, I'll first say our starting position. In our opinion, the Czech Republic must have a lower debt-to-GDP ratio than EU rules, because we are a small open economy and, as a small open economy, we are more sensitive to external shocks, so higher debt is more sensitive to government bond yields and, in turn, to economic growth. In the original government proposal from the last parliamentary term, we actually introduced five bands and individual measures according to the amount of government debt against GDP. The first band below 40 percent - there was actually nothing done. In the second band of 40-45 %, the restriction on the provision of new State guarantees was that the Government would justify the House of Indebtion Increases in the justification for the submission of the budget. The third band was between 45 and 48 percent of GDP in debt, when the government was to decide on binding min. 3 per cent of expenditure approved by the State budget. If this were to happen again, the government will freeze state budget expenditure, state funds and health insurance companies, etc. If the public debt was between 48 and 50 per cent, the government would be obliged to submit a proposal for a balanced or surplus state budget, budgets of state funds and health insurance companies. The same would apply to the budgets of local authorities. And if that were to exceed 50 percent, the government would have to ask the Chamber of Deputies for their trust. The moment the coalition works, it is certainly normal for the coalition to maintain its trust in the Chamber of Deputies. If I compare this with the House press 24, which the Chamber of Deputies had already rejected during this parliamentary term, it was essentially the same, only those borders were pushed up 5%, which was a compromise with colleagues from the left who considered the original figures too low. So the mechanism remained the same, only 5 percent of the debt went up when each instrument of the debt brake started. Then came the proposal of the Ministry of Finance, which was sent to an external commentary procedure, where there was only one border left, it was not gradual and the limit was set at 55 percent of the debt against GDP. But the tools were similar. They were concentrated into one. So the government should be obliged to submit a proposal for a balanced or surplus state budget, as well as the budgets of state funds, health insurance companies. A territorial self-governing body would have to approve its budget for next year as a balanced or surplus, public institutions would not be allowed to accept new long-term commitments and the State would only provide State guarantees on the basis of the law in force on the date of the deficit of 55 percent. Finally, the proposal that was passed by the government, which is the House prints 411 to 413 where 55 per cent were preserved - one border, but instead of a clear formulation of a balanced or surplus state budget, a popular Eurospeek was used, which means the government should be obliged to submit a draft budget that leads to a long-term sustainable state of public finances. You'll recognize that it's actually Brusselsic, that underneath, anyone can imagine anything. And other instruments, in principle, have been retained as balanced budgets for health insurance companies. In principle, all variants included exceptions to this strict regime, which are de facto the same in all proposals - in the case of natural disasters, also one year after the elections, that a new government is coming and cannot respond immediately and similar things. When you compare the debt brake and all four proposals, and essentially both the original proposal of the previous government, the proposal from the TOP 09 colleagues' workshop, but also the proposal sent by the Minister of Finance to the commentary procedure, are essentially the same. Although there are otherwise individual boundaries, or, on the contrary, in that last case, there were only single borders, but the instruments are about the same. The compromise created by the government, which we are discussing today, is the hardest to come from our point of view. And if I use a slightly sharper analogy, it's just a headline from the financial constitution, nothing else. It is probably under the influence of Minister Dienstbier and his legislators who claim that we cannot have parameters of the financial constitution in the Constitution. I think that opinion is wrong. And if we look at the surrounding countries, we might as well have it in the Constitution, because the moment we pass those laws as they are presented, it's no longer a financial constitution, it's an ordinary law whose change is accepted by a simple majority in the Chamber of Deputies. We took part in the meeting convened by the Minister of Finance. We have come up with our own compromise proposal, which I will now introduce to you. I've got four with me, virtually. six amendments, which are for all three prints, but in principle only two things are involved, there are variations. First of all, we propose, and we do not want to convince the government coalition to bring back the five bands, we respect the government coalition's opinion that the band should be one, or the number should be one. However, we are willing to offer it not to be 55 percent of GDP debt, but only 50 percent. I think "only" is inappropriate, so 50 percent or 55 percent. At the same time, we propose that the debt brake instruments, which are now in the Parliaments of the Press 412, which means in the normal law, should be transferred to the constitutional law, that is, to the House press 411. Then, of course, we propose to shift efficiency by one year, because due to the long discussion there deadlines, such as 1 January 2016, have passed, etc., this is more of a technical thing. And then we propose that measures relating to the management of self-governing bodies should not apply from 1 January 2016 but from 1 January 2020. I'll explain it quite simply. The next municipal elections will be in 2018, and I think that a new political representation needs to be given about a year and a quarter to prepare for efficiency and rules that may include a financial constitution. [[16.10 hours]] I will now present our amendments. To Parliament's press 411, this is the constitutional bill, I have prepared four amendments on behalf of our club. From the one that suits us most, to the one that is closest to the government's proposal. And I work there with two parameters. The first is a change from 55 per cent to 50 per cent of GDP. Those are the first two proposals. The third and fourth options retain the value of government debt vis-à-vis GDP at 55 per cent. And the second change -- in turn, it is reflected that instead of the Brussels, rubber definition in two variants, we propose that the government be obliged to submit a proposal for a balanced or surplus state budget. When I simplify this, the first amendment says: a balanced or surplus budget when we reach that value. The value is 50. The second proposal says leave the Brussels formulation and say at the same time, the value is 50 percent. The third variant proposal says: let us maintain the government's proposed value of 55 per cent and we propose a balanced or surplus state budget. And the fourth option, that's really the limit to where we can retreat. It's in constitutional law. We maintain the threshold of 55 percent of GDP, as the government proposes, and we maintain the Brussels rubber definition of what the government is supposed to present at such a time. I think that's a big step towards the government coalition. And if, in particular, members of social democracy are serious about how they want a financial constitution, we can meet in one of the four proposals, and we can find a sufficient majority for the adoption of this law. If, in these four amendments, we are moving the debt brake from normal law to constitutional law, then logically, under normal law, my amendment comes, which will remove the issue of the debt brake from that law. We can't have them constitutionally even in a normal law. And to the press, 413, there is only an amendment of a technical nature that shifts efficiency. There's nothing else. When I finish my speech, I will pass on all my proposals to the rapporteur. They're listed in the system. I will read them in a detailed debate. To sum it up. The Civil Democratic Party considers the financial constitution to be an important issue. This acceptance is so important for us that we are ready for big concessions and compromises, because even the very value in those we think is better than not having any financial institution. But we are not doing this because Brusel and the EU are asking us to. We believe that this is a good thing because it is a good thing for the Czech Republic. At the time we first came up with this, many of our political competitors and political opponents laughed at us. Subsequently, especially Euro-Hungarians, when they found out that a similar directive had been adopted by the EU, they suddenly claimed it. But they only report verbally. Here is a concrete proposal, a concrete step towards a government proposal, and I believe you will not throw it away. Unless you're willing to move a long brake from normal to constitutional law, it's not a financial constitution. It's some kind of normal financial law that can change the ordinary majority at any time. This means the majority present at the time of the vote. And if such a bill does not return the Senate or the President, then you do not need 101 votes in the Chamber of Deputies. Unless, of course, we find a compromise in one of the four. And those variations are logically one, two, three, four for us. In this order they are most suitable for us, we say it openly. We are prepared to support the laws, even if the least advantageous option of the amendment passes for us, that means the biggest compromise towards the government coalition. If you don't accept that, dear colleagues from social democracy, and I speak to you, you will clearly show what I think for a long time that you verbally want a fiscal compact and you want a financial constitution, but you don't really want it. When we were negotiating the first bill in the days of our government, I used such a bonmot to negotiate with the then expert of social democracy, today with the Minister of Industry and Trade, after the debates. You Social Democrats want a fiscal compact, and you don't want to meet it, the parameters. We as civil democrats want to meet the parameters for the Czech Republic, and we do not want a fiscal compact. These are paradoxes of Czech politics. That's just the way it is. And if you take advantage of our offer and handshake, you'll convince me that I was wrong. That I was too harsh with you and that even members of social democracy really want to accept a financial institution. However, if you insist on your current view that the Constitutional Act on the Financial Constitution is actually just a title, don't be angry with us, we will not play this game with you. Putting the title in the constitution is... Jiří Dienstbier may like it, but we really don't like it, and in that case, you can't win our votes. And in that case, you won't get our votes. I think I have made it clear that this is not a mere criticism and that we are bringing compromises. And I believe that, before the third reading, whenever it is in this parliamentary term, we will find time to work together and that one of the amendments in point 411 will be adopted. Then, logically, we must also adopt the de facto technical amendments in the Houses of thousands 412,413. Thank you for your attention and, of course, in a detailed debate, I will sign up to the amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-013-999.u5	I thank the President of the ODS. Another duly logged in is Mr... Sorry, with priority rights, the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-013-999.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, I would only like to respond a little to Mr. Speaker, Mr. Stanjura. He kind of surprised me with the 55 percent limit that he's a little questioning now. Because I know the statement when we were at the meeting, their statement was that, of course, they'd rather be tougher, more ambitious. But that is not the main reason for which they could not deliver votes for the constitutional law. He was talking about the concept of a sustainable state of public finances. It's nothing imaginary that we made up. I would like to quote here: The concept of a sustainable state of public finances builds on the terminology used directly in applicable EU legislation. It is based on Article 140 TFEU, where the criteria for the adoption of the common currency are defined, while the long-term sustainable state of public finances is evident from the state of the public budgets which do not show an excessive deficit within the meaning of Article 126 (1) of the Treaty. 6 contracts. That's 3%. This concerns the budget deficit. And 60 per cent, this concerns debt, i.e. excessive government deficits. I think it's a very clear term. That's not some concept that hangs in the air, and no one could imagine anything in his mind. Yes, it's as I read it. Again, I would reiterate that social democracy, and now I can speak for the whole coalition, is interested in adopting a constitutional law. Yes, he has his weight. It's not so easy to change, it's true. But if we can't get the votes, and I want us to act. I think we need to move on and come to an agreement, or then we don't have a deal. And then, of course, we'll only have rules that can be, yes, that's true, easily changed in some way. It depends on what representation will be on the oar if I put it this way. I mean, the current government coalition is acting budgetaryly responsible. I want to remind you that we are reducing budget deficits. We're reducing the debt. And that's what the ratios for gross domestic product and absolute figures are talking about. So no one can blame us for not trying to be budgetaryly responsible. We want to be budgetaryly responsible. Of course, we want to adopt the relevant legislation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-013-999.u7	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-013-999.u8	Just to clarify, the rapporteur misunderstood me, so let me just explain. These are four amendments. In two we work with a debt of 50 percent, in two we respect 55. These are actually variants. That's why what we said at the meeting is true. We think 50 is better. If the deal was at 55, there's no reason for us not to vote for the law. That's why it's prepared this way. And in every version of 50 and 55 percent, either the very clear formulation of the balanced or surplus budget is proposed, and in the second variant, the Brussels one, you've heard how simple and clear it is. I hope the quotes in my voice and in front of the adjectives were simple and clear. We didn't change any of the things we announced at the meeting. I have already said that we will also present the two options that I am talking about to negotiate, but if the fourth amendment, for example, were passed, which is the House Press 4850, both the Brussels definition and the GDP level are preserved there. It's just, and for us, it's not just, it's the fundamental change, it's not the normal law, it's the constitutional law. By proposing better parameters to us, that's what I announced at the meeting, we kept our promise. But if any of these four amendments are supported by a government coalition, we are ready and we will vote in favour of the constitutional law as a whole. If neither passes, i.e. We just can't vote for him. Well, just to be clear, I guess I didn't exactly say it. The fact that we're proposing to improve parameters is one thing, but even for the parameters that the government sets, if we put it into constitutional law, we're ready to support the bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-013-999.u9	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Plíšek, now duly applied for. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-013-999.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, let me also make a brief statement in the context of the merged debate. The rapporteur, Mr Votava, pointed out here that the proposed constitutional law on budgetary responsibility and follow-up printing is a year and a half parked in the Chamber of Deputies. A year and a half. And during this year and a half, only one meeting took place with the representatives of the MPs represented in the Chamber of Deputies, although the government coalition knows that it needs a three-fifth majority of Members to adopt the constitutional law. So the meeting of the MPs was far from exhausted, and as I learned from the media, the government coalition resigned to the constitutional law, so-called. deboning and moving the provisions from the constitutional law to the simple law and voting here. It would be good to make it clear here, because at this point, the constitutional majority of some agreement on the constitutional law on rules on budgetary responsibility is not, and amendments are already being prepared here, which move part of the constitutional law into a simple law. This means that there is no interest in dealing with the opposition and opposition MPs. Of course, neither did the constitutional committee's call. I therefore put forward a procedural proposal that the Chamber of Deputies should, first, interrupt the discussion of the press 411 of the Constitutional Act on budgetary responsibility and, in the sense of the resolution of the Constitutional Legal Committee, instruct the President of the Chamber of Deputies of Jan Hamáček to convene a meeting of representatives of all members of the Clubs on the draft Constitutional Act on budgetary responsibility. I give this proposal as a procedural proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-013-999.u11	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I'll try to reproduce it. We have two conditions. The first is until when, i.e. Until the representatives of the parliamentary clubs meet with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, this proposal will be interrupted. Yes? Okay. That is a condition that can be voted on. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. I'm shutting you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on Mr Plíšek's procedural proposal, which proposes that this item be interrupted until the President of the Chamber of Deputies convenes a meeting of representatives of the various factions of the Chamber of Deputies to agree on how to proceed with this law. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 96; 128 Members are registered, for 49, against 60, the proposal has not been adopted. Let's keep going, then. First of all, the rapporteur, then Mr Dolejš and Mr Volný. Please, rapporteur, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-013-999.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I don't see why we would interrupt the hearing. I want to strongly oppose this, and now I am speaking really for social democracy, I will leave it to ANO and KDU-ČSL to comment on this, for example: We are interested in adopting a constitutional law, we have not resigned to anything, we have not resigned to the fact that it will only be in the rules of budgetary responsibility, but the reality is that there has not yet been any agreement. It is not true that it was only at the joint meeting, of course we exchanged views among the different clubs on this subject. We want to act and I do not see why we would interrupt the legislative process. That is why we also voted against it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-013-999.u13	Now Mr Dolejš's factual remarks, then Mr Volný. The Minister wants a point of order? It's a point of fact. So, after Mr. Volné. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-013-999.u14	Thank you. I understand that the coalition wants this over with, but the question is the purpose of all this. The problem of debt brakes and financial institutions is being discussed, say, for 15 years. During that time, he admitted certain developments and brought certain experiences. And the experience is contradictory and they're kind of right about those who point out that the debt brake doesn't always have to be exactly what helps. Because what can help besides, say, fiscal responsibility is also able to find a certain optimal mix between structural and countercyclical measures, and also unnecessarily not fit pitchforks into important segments of public finances, such as territorial administrative units or public health insurance. We have repeatedly raised debates and cannot be heard. An intense debate in the post-2010 parliamentary term took place and hit hard not only on political conditions, power conditions, but also on what happened to Petr Nečas' government. And now it's as if we've dusted off the subject, put it in the programming statement, and it's being fulfilled. So that the famous wolf would get his portion, and the goat would jog around the world. And I don't think that's the point. When we look at the European compact, it is enforced and how. The southern wing of the eurozone is booming. At the very least, Portugal is fighting against taking appropriate action on them. Italy, there is also a threat, and a country where there is no immediate threat of the application of the European compact, so it invents an immense law, which is probably, as I am listening to it, because the compromise is not such a compromise, will end by approving a normal law and the normal law will overrule when it is appropriate. [[Time warning]] And if I know the conditions, maybe sometimes it'll be done by the '90s. So this is actually losing some sense. I think the debate should be longer than just until the third reading. [[additional time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-013-999.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for not having to turn you off again. You're good. Mr Free with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-013-999.u16	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I give a little credit to Mr Dolejš, but we are the last people in Europe who do not have this law, and it is a great shame for us. I am glad that, in this House, we as a coalition have, in addition to the utterly destructive opposition, which is TOP 09, and the constructive opposition, which is the ODS, which I want to praise with this. Because, yes, they put their designs on the table and put something on the table that could be discussed again. And I personally, and I believe that ANO will also be pleased to discuss this. We still have enough time until the third reading to get a possible compromise to get the hundred twenty. And we'll be there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-013-999.u17	Thank you. Minister with a factual remark. Please, Minister. Mr Klaška and President Stanjura will be ready. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-013-999.u18	Thank you for the floor. Of course, it is probably good for me that the European Commission is telling us to be budgetaryly responsible. We are, some by nature. So I want to ask you to really approve. It's a shame, we're the last in Europe, it's making our image worse. Today we have a government debt of 35.5 percent, we have withdrawn it by six points from the start. So 55, 50 - it doesn't really matter to me, we're at 35,5 and I'm sure it won't change until the end of our mandate, but I hope it'll be even better. So, please, let's approve because it's making our rating worse, because they say we don't have it, we don't have the only law. So it would be really good for us to finally approve, and the difference of 55 to 35 is gigantic. Well, 50, in the finals, I think we're somewhere else, and we're one of Europe's least-indebted countries, and I think we're gonna improve that position from the seventh place, and I'm sure my goal is to get to the top five. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-013-999.u19	Thank you, Minister. Mr Klaška with a point of fact, after which President Stanjura. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-013-999.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, on budget responsibility very briefly, there were about three or four variants during this parliamentary term. We were prepared to discuss different options except perhaps only one, and that is what is coming so called. a fiscal cliff, because it wouldn't do any good. It means nothing's happened for a long time, then the line comes and then the huge restrictions come. This is known from America. In the US, it always turns out that the fiscal reef shifts and shifts. So we're ready to discuss the proposed version as it is, and the question is, where do we get to? We'll be ready to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-013-999.u21	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-013-999.u22	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Volný is wrong. We are not constructive opposition at this point, but if the government presents our original proposal, it is only because we are sitting on other benches that we will not say anything else. The explanation. I was describing the difference between the variations quite in detail in my performance. But I'd like to say we're looking for another motive to raise our hand for, not Brusel. Some of you have such billboard passwords that it's going to be us and not Brusel, and then it says - and Brusel wants it, and Brussels is a disgrace, and we have to do it because what we're going to say in Brusel. And we say that it is good for the Czech Republic and for the Czech economy and it doesn't matter whether they have it better or worse approved next door. It's good for us. That's why we've been supporting this in the long run, and that's why I'm saying that just because we're sitting in other benches, we're not gonna change our mind and we're not gonna be against it. If you do this more often, that you would either not break our good laws or adopt our programming proposals, then of course we will support it too. Unfortunately, it's not. And unfortunately, so that the praise of the government coalition is not so much because they praise themselves, who else would do it for them?, so yes, there are high tax revenues. But how do you deal with them? How do you use it? Why aren't you reducing the debt forcefully? Today you're praising how much surplus you have in nine months, I'd wait for the 12th month, because it's just more objective. But at the same time, you're planning a deficit of 60 billion. for next year. That doesn't add up, you two sentences. So why don't you plan a deficit of 20 billion next year.? And the argument "but we plan higher and then the result will be better" may be politically pleasing, but it lacks economic logic. And if you look at the detailed budget implementation, let's really wait 12 months and then we can debate both income and expenditure. That makes sense, not somewhere in the middle of the financial year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-013-999.u23	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Černoch, who was duly applied for by Mr Vilímec. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-013-999.u24	Thank you for the floor. There was a constructive and destructive opposition. We also regard ourselves as the Dawn as constructive opposition. The proposal that I am going to make in a detailed debate is precisely that, in the event that the state emerges from the crisis, when it will have to reach out to those not quite standard means, so that it does not affect ordinary citizens, so that taxes do not increase. That's all, we take it as a constructive proposal. And I'm joining in with what Mr Stanjura said that when he jumps out of a window in Brussels, we don't have to jump. This is done to make it good for the Czech Republic, not because we are the last country not to have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-013-999.u25	Thank you. After the President, Mr Vilímec is now duly applied for. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-013-999.u26	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, a lot has been said. I confess that I was quite surprised on Monday when I spoke with my colleague Votava in Pilsen that, in principle, the government coalition wants to vote even on a regular proposal on budgetary responsibility rules if it fails to pass the constitutional bill. But, as you can see, the interruption didn't go through, so the will and calls for the House to approve a sort of classic legislative left-wing again are quite high. When I read yesterday what Mr Votava, Mr Klaška, Mr Volný, was preparing, I wondered how much it was possible to approve, especially in relation to territorial self-governing units, sanctions and detention, for example. the statutory revenue guaranteed by the budgetary determination of taxes without being treated in any way by the constitutional law. I am convinced that it is simply not possible that such an intervention would be completely unconstitutional. So, in case - I don't want to talk here about how indebted the state is, how indebted the regions are, how indebted the municipalities are, we all know that the biggest problem is state finance, not territorial finance - but in case that the will of the government coalition after the approval of the ordinary law on budgetary rules at all costs, without the adoption of the constitutional law in the form that we have offered as constructive opposition, I think it is appropriate, because then we are really getting into the problem of disproportionate intervention, unconstitutional intervention in the rights of municipalities and regions, so it is actually appropriate to make a proposal in such a case if the proposal is submitted by President Votava in a detailed text, to make a proposal that certain passages from that standard draft law on budgetary responsibility should be removed. I note that in a situation where there is some sort of agreement that I do not want to anticipate now that it will be possible to approve the constitutional law on budgetary responsibility, so that in this constitutional law there are obligations on the part of the state as well as obligations on the part of municipalities and regions, so I am prepared to withdraw the proposal or those proposals which I will then read in detail. But in case this does not happen - and it appears that the government coalition, the Minister of Finance, the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, is ready to push through the ordinary law on budgetary rules, on budgetary responsibility rules without constitutional law. If this were to happen, as a variant proposal, I will read in detail the proposals that will set out the passages associated with the financing of local self-governing units. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-013-999.u27	I thank Mr Votav. I ask who else is reporting to the merged general debate. Mr. Klaška. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-013-999.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just a tiny, tiny comment about what Mr. Vilímec said. And that is - territorial budgets or restrictions on territorial budgets. I have gathered for this account, and now it is not for Mr Vilímc, through Mr President, but perhaps for the representatives of those cities and municipalities, namely the Union of Towns and Municipalities. I met with a Vice-President, and I told him I didn't fully understand that, in fact, territorial budgets would want the poor state to give them a raise, which would make it a little worse for the bad - in quotation marks - economics. And then these communities are going to say, "we do well and we don't want to be a part of it." I think it's a schizophrenic situation, that it's either one or the other. That it doesn't exactly go both ways. We sort of figured it out, and I hope we got the message back then. I still think that either there's one option or there's another option. I'm fine for the second option, which means let the municipalities develop, let them have enough resources to do it, but if we're all not quite well enough, it's one for all of us, all for one. I don't think we can do this without it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-013-999.u29	Thank you, Mr Klašek. I ask who else is reporting to the merged general debate. If there is no such person, I will end the merged general debate. I ask about the final words of the rapporteur, or the Minister. There is no interest, I do not see any proposals to return the guarantee committee to discuss or shorten the deadline for third reading or not to address the guarantee committee's proposal. We will therefore proceed to the debate in detail, first of all to paragraph 8.
