ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-051-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 51st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. This meeting was convened pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 41 Members. The invitation was distributed to you through the parliamentary clubs on 3 November 2016. I'd like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, let me know who's applying for a replacement card. In the meantime, Mr Birke will be voting today with Mr Birke's replacement card number 13. And now we will proceed to the designation of two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint a Member of Jiří Dolejš and a Member of Kristýna Zelienková. I wonder if anyone else has a suggestion... I can't see. I will repeat once again that there is a proposal for us to vote in favour of the verifier of this meeting of Mr Jiří Dolejš and of Mr Kristýna Zelienková. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 1. 102 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 96, against no one. I note that we have appointed Mr Jiří Dolejš and Mrs Kristýna Zelienková as verifiers of the 51st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Mrs Strnadlová will be voting with the replacement card number 54 today. Milánek Ivan asked to apologize for his absence to the meetings by the following Members: Adam Vojtěch for health reasons, Adamec Ivan without giving reason, Antonín Pavel without giving reason, Mrs Bebarová Šincl for Vostrá Miloslava from 12 o'clock, Jiří Běhounek for Zemánek of foreign travel, Rom Kostřica for Adam Rykala, Jana Černochová for Pavera of work, Jan Farský until 10.30 for Pilný of employment, Ivan Gabal for reasons of foreign travel, Vlastimil Gabrhel for reasons of employment, Miroslav Grebeníček for reasons of work, Josef Hájek for Martin of employment, Jana Hnyková for Vondrášek of family Igor, Jiří Holeček for Josef of foreign travel, Vítězslav Jandák for reasons of family travel, David Pavlína from 10.30 for Soukup of work, Miroslav Kalousek for Karel of health Tureček of work, for Jan of work, for Květa of work, Jan Jiříslav Koskuba for reasons of health Soňa of Marková o's. Furthermore, the following members of the government apologize: Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka from 12 o'clock for work reasons and ministers Andrej Babiš for personal reasons, Pavel Bělobrádek for work reasons, Michaela Marksová from morning meeting for work reasons, Jan Mládek due to foreign travel, Svatopluk Němeček for health reasons, Kateřina Valachová for work reasons, Lubomír Zaorálek from 10.30 for work reasons. Next, I have further apologies. Today, Minister Dienstbier apologizes for the whole day, today, for health reasons, Mr Milan Urban apologizes, for the whole day of the meeting for work reasons, Mr Jaroslav Holík apologizes. And so far, those are all the apologies that have come to me. We will now proceed to the appointment of the 51st meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. It is not possible to propose any change or addition to the programme, nor to extend the approved programme. President Petr Fiala is now reporting with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-051-01-000-000.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister and members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, in my speech I would like to justify what we expect from calling this extraordinary meeting, and I have asked the government, the Prime Minister, a few questions about foreign policy, which I consider essential in terms of answers to the Czech public. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I would like to remind you that the Civil Democratic Party, as well as other opposition parties, have repeatedly convened or are trying to convene extraordinary meetings of the Chamber of Deputies on foreign policy issues of the Czech Republic, on the ground that the government does not inform us, the Chamber of Deputies, sufficiently about its foreign policy actions. And the balance of Czech foreign policy is not very good. We assume that the Chamber of Deputies is to be informed about foreign policy. He's supposed to know what the priorities of our foreign policy are. Where the government is going and why it is taking some steps that seem incomprehensible at first sight.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-051-01-000-000.u3	I'll ask you, colleagues and colleagues for peace! In case you have a need to deal with some topics, discuss them, I'll ask you to go to the lobby. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-051-01-000-000.u4	The latest developments not only on the domestic, but also on the foreign political scene clearly show that the state of the size of the Czech Republic must have a clear, understandable foreign policy that has broad support and therefore legitimacy to defend its national interests. And it turns out repeatedly that Prime Minister Sobotka's government has neither. Her foreign policy is unclear, indecisive, weak and incomprehensible. I would even say that at times it seems that Prime Minister Sobotka's government has no foreign policy. Because foreign policy, it is not only that I respond to some challenges from abroad, it is not only that I have some diplomatic relations that I somehow implement, but foreign policy according to any standard definition is a strategy or approach chosen by the government to achieve its objectives in relations with external entities. And with me and a lot of my colleagues, I don't see any strategy like that targeted by the national government. [[9.10 hours]] Foreign policy must have content, must be the result of a political process, must be the result of a debate, so that it has the support of the opposition to support the general public, and at the same time its content, formulation and, above all, implementation must be based on the constitutional framework of the rule of law. Nor is it fulfilled in the Czech Republic, as I will show in my performance. Foreign policy should develop on the basis of a broader consensus on the main issues, given the overall coherence and exceptional importance of the topics covered. And that's not what Prime Minister Sobotka's government does. [[Still noisy in the hall.]] The strength and degree of vulnerability of a medium-sized or small state, such as the Czech Republic, does not depend solely on its geographical location, demographic development -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-051-01-000-000.u5	I apologize, Mr President, for entering into your speech, but I repeatedly need to ask you, colleagues and colleagues, to keep your voice down, because I do not hear what the President is saying. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-051-01-000-000.u6	Thank you. So I repeat that the strength and degree of vulnerability of a medium-sized or small state, such as the Czech Republic, is not only based on its geographical location, demographic development, economic performance and military strength, but also on internal political, administrative and social cohesion and on the quality of governance. And again, unfortunately, as Prime Minister Sobotka's government does, we have a weak foreign policy, and that is, of course, against our interests. The government itself is disunited in the fundamental content of our foreign priorities. And I'm stressing that. Not that there is a disagreement between government and opposition in foreign policy priorities. That's bad in itself. Even the government is unclear what its foreign policy priorities are. The meeting of the Minister of Culture Herman with the Tibetan spiritual leader of the Dalai Lama and the chaotic reaction of the government is just the tip of the iceberg -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-051-01-000-000.u7	Mr President, I apologize once more. Colleagues and colleagues, if you do not respect the peace of mind in the hall, I will begin to appoint Members who cancel their speeches. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-051-01-000-000.u8	So once again, I will mention my last sentence, interrupted in the middle, that the meeting of the Minister of Culture Herman with the spiritual leader of Tibet the Dalai Lama, and what happened around it, that's just the tip of the iceberg. An ledovec that shows how inconclusive and unclear our foreign policy is. Let us just remember the confusion and conflicts concerning European migration policy, virtually. issues relating to the adoption of migration quotas, for example. While the Minister of Interior refused quotas, the Minister of Human Rights convinced us to accept even more refugees than the quotas would set us. When it was decided to introduce quotas, the Minister of the Interior, who was to defend them in the Council of the European Union, and it was a matter of priority in terms of our national interest, was not informed that our current ally Poland was retreating from the joint position of the Visegrad Group states, while the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for European Affairs already knew that. Another example could be the ununited statements made by Foreign Minister Zaorálek and Prime Minister Sobotka, for example, for political support by European Commission Chief Juncker. And I could bring many examples of disunited practices and attitudes in foreign policy. The disunity of parties on foreign policy or disunity within the government and the overall disunity on foreign policy create confusion and a vacuum that the president actively fills, thereby disrupting the Constitution's order that the government is responsible for foreign policy. Unfortunately, the accents of the President's foreign policy activities, which are not corrected by the government enough, lead to the challenge of our Euro-Atlantic direction and, on the other hand, various Oriental and Eastern experiments are offered here. All of this has the effect of becoming illegible, unpredictable allies, while being read and predictable is one of the prerequisites for successful foreign policy, one of the prerequisites for being sufficiently reliable partners, for example, within the North Atlantic Alliance. And while I am at Prague Castle, I must remind you that Prague Castle is supposed to be a place where defending Czech interests abroad is to be supported, but instead the Castle has become what it is not supposed to become, an autonomous centre of foreign policy and, unfortunately, the defence of some foreign interests in the Czech Republic. But this centre pays all taxpayers, and neither will the Prime Minister's attempts to re-enable certain things, such as his state-paid expedition to a conference organized by the Russian oligarch. In this context, Prime Minister, I would like to remind you of your own words from the statement of four constitutional officials, where it is said that the personal activities of some Czech politicians are not an expression of the official policy of the Czech Republic. And unfortunately, this sentence, in the context in which I mention it here, fully shows that this so-called statement of four constitutional agents makes no sense, makes no sense either in terms of content or politically. Despite this non-standard statement, our confused foreign policy towards China resulted in the abolition of the visit of the Minister of Agriculture Jurečka in China, where he was supposed to open the market to Czech farmers, at a time when both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Agriculture boasted support for agrarian diplomacy. So it turns out that with this non-standard, unusual, humiliating political declaration, we didn't really get anything. We have just created some diplomatic precedent here, which has sent a significant signal about the deviation and unilaterality of our current foreign policy towards some countries, namely China. To make you understand me correctly, I do not want to question the reality of China's economic and power position in the current international order, I do not want to question the Czech government's efforts to diversify Czech exports outside Europe. It's all right. But the question now is no longer whether to trade and develop relations with China, but the question is how to develop relations with China and how to trade with China. For example, for our relations with China to be beneficial and beneficial to the Czech Republic, they must not be privatised in the hands of several individuals. Unfortunately, we see that most of the volume of investment in the Czech Republic is realized through the mixed Czech-China Chamber of Mutual Cooperation, led by former Minister of Defence and media advisor to Prime Minister for China Jaroslav Tvrdík, and we are witnessing the regional expansion of Chinese investment, supported for example by another former Foreign Minister and this time by President Jan Kohout's advisor not only through the Czech-Sechuan Trade Council. This situation should lead us to the fact that, as the Czech Republic - and above all, it is the government's task - to clearly define the strategic industrial, technological and security sectors that we will protect from foreign influence and investment. The development of relations with China is a good incentive for the government to do this as quickly as possible. If he doesn't know how, then I remind you that the discussion on this topic in Germany, which is our closest business partner and, ultimately, the country through which we carry out the most reexport to China, can be an inspiration for us in this regard. [[9.20 hours]] We should take gradual, but realistic steps to help the Czech business open up the Chinese market so as to at least partially reduce the trade balance deficit with China, where we are currently importing ten times more than we export. And as realistic and mutually beneficial as our relations with China should be, they should not just be pragmatic and apolitical. Indeed, maintaining political dialogue, the subject of human rights, civil liberties as a cross-cutting topic of our foreign policy, and I would like to remind you that here, Sobotkův's government has also set itself as one of its objectives. So if Sobotkův's government has set it up, it should hold it, and if it doesn't stick to that goal, then it should tell the public, and it should change that goal publicly. What I have mentioned here is just an example, it is not the only foreign policy issues that governments, but not only governments, and broader political representation in this country, should at least agree on as a framework. I don't need to remind you of the outcome of the American elections. But the outcome of the US elections, among other things, indicates a very likely change in US foreign policy accents and change in international relations. Anyway, it means for Europe that we will have to take more care of our security and our prosperity. President-elect Trump has made it clear that allies will have to pay more if they wish to continue the participation of the United States in European security, and that Evropan must accept more of their own responsibilities. I'm asking how the government intends to respond to this. How he prepares for it. How it wants to define the content of Atlantic, Euro-Atlantic bonds in the future. The answer to this is certainly not the Prime Minister's proposed joint European army. But those answers will have to be provided by the Czech Government, and we first have to define the answers here at home, we have to agree on them, and then we can promote them somewhere. Another big issue is the question of our strategy in the future direction of the European Union. British Foreign Minister Johnson is visiting today. He's here to, I suppose, discuss Brexit with the government. Yet, to this day, the government has not comprehensively informed the entire political representation of what its strategic and content priorities are in negotiations on the appearance of the UK, what it expects from negotiations and, most importantly, what the government's position on future institutional and political developments is, on the future debate, on the debate that is going on about what the European Union will look like in the future. And there are further questions ahead of us in this context, and not only in this context, as well as in the context of migration and the security risks facing Europe: the future of the Schengen area, the future of the reform of the whole so-called. The Dublin system. These are questions that affect each and every one of us. These are questions that affect every citizen, because they concern the freedom of movement of citizens, the possibility of doing business, but also the rights of our state independently and sovereignly to decide which of the foreigners may reside in our territory and so on. These are key issues, and we need to know what the government holds in them, what matters it promotes abroad, how it defends the interests of the Czech Republic and what interests the Czech Republic has actually set itself. And we don't have answers to these questions. Dear Prime Minister, we have some troubled times ahead of us, and I hope I don't have to tell you that, and we need to be prepared for these troubled times. In this situation, we must make the most of the strength and potential of our country in order to defend our national interests and to achieve our objectives in international relations and within the European Union. And what our foreign policy looks like so far, how it works, what its specific results are, it reduces the strength of our negotiating position and threatens the good position of the Czech Republic abroad in the long term. Because we are, and that's the old truth, that we are as strong on the outside as we are at home united. And if the country's leader cannot rely on a broader consensus and long-term consensus in foreign policy, he is weak abroad and cannot enforce anything. This is not news, this is the basic rule of foreign policy. Here I can remind Churchillův's words: "If we don't have enemies inside, enemies outside can't harm us." All of this tells us that, at these times, we need to have a broader national consensus on what foreign policy priorities are and how we will promote them abroad, but at least we need to have this consensus at government level. Finally, Prime Minister, I call on you to remind Members and citizens of the Czech Republic once again, to present the priorities of Czech foreign policy, to explain why we do not stick to them in some matters, to explain why you co-initiated your signature under a non-standard, strange, humiliating letter from the four highest constitutional officials, and you should also explain to the public and to all of us what the purpose of this statement was, who wanted it for you, what it was for, and, above all, whether you are going to take such non-standard, really non-standard, unusual steps in foreign policy in the future. Dear Prime Minister, it is your personal responsibility not to consult with the opposition of our foreign policy strategy. It is your responsibility that our foreign policy is incomprehensible and disunited and long-term harms our interests abroad. I therefore ask you once again to convene a meeting of all relevant political forces so that we can agree on the Czech national position and the government can enforce it abroad. Consider this repeated challenge of mine as a helpful step, as an effort by the opposition to participate in shaping the national consensus and strengthening the position of the Czech Republic abroad. Prime Minister, at this meeting, we want to give you the opportunity to explain to the public, not only the opposition, what you are watching in foreign policy, what you will be watching in the coming months and years, what your ideas are about foreign policy priorities and how you want to defend the national interests of the Czech Republic abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope and believe in this regard in your common sense and in your political responsibility that this time it will not end as always in the past that I will perform, the Prime Minister will speak after me, then someone with priority rights and the debate will be over. I believe that you will allow the approval of the programme by your decision, so that foreign policy issues can be asked to the Prime Minister and to the members of the Government by all Members of this Chamber of Deputies who are interested in this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-051-01-000-000.u9	Thank you, Mr President. However, before we proceed to the vote, I have about five Members with priority rights here. First, however, I will read that today, with the replacement card number 26, Mr Vondráček will vote. Furthermore, today, Mr Mihola apologizes for the whole day for working reasons, also because of illness, Mr Karel Andrle Sylor, also today from 10.45 to 12.30 for working reasons, Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický. For today's day, Mr Ivan Gabal cancels his apology, and from 12 o'clock to the end of the day, Mr Grospič apologises for personal reasons. Next, we will continue to perform with priority rights. Mr Laudát is now reporting and the Prime Minister will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-051-01-000-000.u10	Mr Vice-President, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not perform and attempt to repeat what President Fiala has already said. Of course, everything he said is true. We repeatedly offer a helpful hand to discuss more across the political spectrum about foreign policy of the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, this wish is not answered. In today's world, it is no secret that tensions, the index of instability, the risk index, all possible risk indices, etc. are growing dramatically. You have obviously come into this state, although it is chaotic, I see a line of some kind of economic diplomacy, and actually in a way, whether wanted or unwanted, you have made a very sharp cut for more than two decades in which Czech foreign policy has been clearly defined, clearly oriented to modern world democracy, I am thinking in particular of the European Union, the United States, Canada and others and other countries. Instead, you went east. You've added to that, and you're mixing a very dangerous mixture. After 1990, or after its creation, the Czech Republic gained a huge reputation with our allies, whether it was in the North Atlantic alliance, in the European Union, in the United States. I want to be here again, and I am saying this repeatedly, to remind you that thanks to Václav Havel's policy and respect for him, we have obtained an exclusive approach, for example. in the United States as one of 11 countries for research and unmodern technologies, with the exception of some military and private. They're opening the door for us to the most advanced country called. Western Europe.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-051-01-000-000.u11	I apologize, Mr President, and I will request, in particular, a silence in the left side of the hall. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-051-01-000-000.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-051-01-000-000.u13	Madam, I'm going to ask you if you need to deal with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, go to the lobby so you don't disturb. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-051-01-000-000.u14	Thank you. I'm not saying that we shouldn't try to help our companies, help them support them with some guarantees to try to find new markets in more risky countries. No one here has prevented you from taking up your duties, Prime Minister, and your government, from establishing trade relations with China, Russia, etc. However, what you do to allow yourself to be politically blackmailed and bent over the spine is a huge risk towards countries with which we not only have real defence interests, but also, of course, partner relationships. I just want to say that relations with China developed more dynamically at a time when no one bent their backs, when no one was squeaking ministers or high constitutional officials for welcoming the Dalai Lama here. Nobody was squeaking, and it didn't happen that we had to put off the true name of Armén genocide forever just because now there's a power plant under threat, which will probably be paid by taxpayers in the finals anyway, and it's going to cost 14 billion. Crowns. Then it's gonna be trams and stuff. Where does this spinal bending end? I'd like you to actually tell me where this spine bend ends. I think it is very illustrative if we compare the development of trade relations between some states, e.g. Portugal, France, Germany and others, e.g. China, when China is still so hard-pressed, versus the Czech Republic. If any country in the world feels or feels that trade is important to it, it will do so. But if somewhere, especially when they are different semi-totalities or totalitarian regimes, they feel weak on the other hand, they will also take advantage of it politically. And it's not funny. If you think it doesn't concern normal people, then after I tell the new year a very terrible story, which applies e.g. Turkey, as far as it can go. Except for academic land, ladies and gentlemen. If we look at it, it was huge, even though it was not mentioned after the economic crisis in Russia, you remember when President Zeman and others opened up the markets in Russia. We're also losing our investment, our guarantee, and now there's a lot of silence. Is it really worth it? But what you are champions of, or your party comrades here, is digging up the European Union, which is often beyond the edge of kicking and questioning the defence alliance. I'm in their position, so I'm really gonna start closing open doors to my markets, virtually. to its state-of-the-art technology. You really do make a very, very risky policy. It is often operated e.g. in the case of China, by having significant markets there and by starting to produce damage control. Well, the license was sold, if I recall, sometime in 2007, when we welcomed the Dalai Lama, we treated it with kindness and pride. Not now. I would ask the Foreign Minister whether he could say whether he wants to continue this policy for the rest of the parliamentary term and risk the very possible consequences of what this foreign policy, which you have been running here for three years, will lead to. I believe that if someone, when there are changes in the government, I think that ministers who should command or consider their staying should be more. From the point of view of our trade balance with China, Russia and other countries, which was probably a priority for you, I think you might as well admit that your economic diplomacy has failed in this regard. With China, the trade deficit has increased dramatically. We have a trade deficit with Russia. So where are the successes? Where are the elevated exports? For the first time in history, the turnaround with the United States is greater than with Russia. [[Minister Zaoralek from the place: Is that wrong?]] The question is, if it's wrong - no, it's delicious. But I'd like it to be even better. But you didn't do that, Minister. As long as we're talking this way behind our backs. I welcome it. Please don't do anything funny here. And I think that if something really goes wrong, it's your whole branch of foreign policy. [[9.40 hours]] The very thing that took place around the Dalai Lama visit. I am very sorry that even the parties and parts of the parties I respected until recently will today be more important to them than morale. I think the Senate will become a moral swamp if it elects its chairman Mr. Štěch. I don't remember after the '90s that someone so humiliated their own nation as the ones who signed up to make a statement on this matter. If anyone didn't know who Mr. Štěch was, then didn't you just mind, even if it remained in the shadow of Mr. Vodička's scandalous performance at the wake in Terezín, you didn't mind what Mr. Štěch said there, how did he perform there as a politician of the era minus 20 years ago and perhaps even worse? In relation to Germany. You didn't mind. So if you said you were already set up for 14 days on how nothing was going to happen, then you're not looking. And I don't know if he spoke for himself there, or as the second highest constitutional official in the hierarchy, as president of the Senate. So it's not just China. And I was sick of the way he acted, the way he got off, the way he was embarrassed, in Terezín. It bothers me how you, on the one hand, make a policy of continuing sanctions and vote in favour, or do not have a problem with the negotiations in the European Union, but also Mr Štěch, President Zeman and others have said the exact opposite. So what's going to happen? And it's worth it - I don't know, I don't think anyone's gonna bring the President to justice, but aren't you at least able to bring your candidate to continue the Senate President? What are people supposed to think then? But what are our allies supposed to think? What are they supposed to believe? And can anyone tell when the line will be when he will act as the second highest constitutional officer and when he will act as a rank senator? I believe that your policy, and now I'm talking about the entire government coalition, is confused, opaque, and that in this swamp that you're creating and atrophy here, I can tell you that you're still putting into it the moves you're deceiving the public with. For me, it is very disgusting when people who do the exact opposite here and in their political practice are built as human rights and freedom fighters. I would like to call on you, as President Fiala said, to allow the approval of the agenda for this meeting to be limited to priority rights, because the things that foreign policy has to deal with are huge penzions. It is a migration crisis, it is relations with totalitarians and semi-totalitarians, their influence on the Czech political scene, it is a changed situation, or it is likely to happen after the election of the President of the United States, and other things. Please allow the Members to express their views. You have refused several times, as with the other two points, to approve the inclusion of a point on the House program. That is why we have nothing left but to reach out for extraordinary meetings. Because otherwise, the public won't even know what you're really doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-051-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. Prime Minister Sobotka will now take the floor with priority, and Minister Zaorálek will prepare himself. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-051-01-000-000.u16	Thank you. Good morning, honourable Members. In fact, I'm glad the opposition called this meeting. It is appropriate for us to discuss what they are and what the priorities of Czech foreign policy will be, that is one of the most important topics today. I would say that foreign policy is ubiquitous today and is much more concerned with what is happening here in our country than it was in the past. Above all, the last three years we've been through are really dynamic in terms of international events. Chairman Fiala here said we're headed for a troubled time. That's not what I think. I think the troubled times have already begun, that the troubled times are already here. And these last three years, if I remind you of them very briefly, you'll understand that this is reality. We're in the middle of a very restless time, it's a turbulent time. After all, the outcome of the President's election in the United States confirmed that things are changing. We have experienced the eurozone crisis in relation to Greece, we have experienced the annexation of Crimea and the conclusion of the Minsk agreements, we have experienced the escalation of the migration crisis and the cruelty of the Islamic State, we have experienced Brexit and also a very sharp presidential campaign in the United States. But we have also witnessed an attempt at a military coup in Turkey. There have been brutal terrorist attacks in several European Union states over the past three years that have shocked all of us in an unimaginable way. Now I'm not going to speculate about all the causes of these and other turbulences or escalation of international tensions. I'm focusing on the most important part of my performance. Most importantly, the Czech Republic has a transparent foreign policy. This foreign policy makes us an understandable partner, not only for our neighbours, not just for our partners within the European Union, but also for our allies within NATO and even for our partners within the United Nations. Last year, the Czech Government adopted two key documents defining our foreign policy. We have approved the concept of our work in the European Union, and we have also approved the proposal tabled by the Foreign Minister, the concept of our foreign policy. These are the principles, these materials are the principles that the entire government has agreed to, the whole coalition government has agreed to. And these principles are publicly available to everyone. Everyone can thus get to know our priorities in relation to the European Union and also in relation to foreign policy in general. I want, of course, to respond in my speech to those questions or important issues that the previous speakers mentioned, both President Fiala and President Laudát. However, I will talk first of all about the fulfilment of these priorities, what we have said to ourselves that we will promote in the coalition government and what we are actually doing in reality. We not only approve concepts, but we are also moving towards their implementation through concrete steps in foreign policy. We continue to act as the Czech Republic very actively and always try to act in the name of the best interests of the Czech Republic. The fact that we are acting actively, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs will confirm this to me, also confirms that today, here in the Chamber of Deputies and in Prague, we will be negotiating with the British Foreign Minister who has arrived here, the Iranian Foreign Minister who has arrived here, and we will negotiate with the President of the Swedish Parliament who has arrived here. It is evident that the Czech Republic and this small illustration only today here in Prague, that the Czech Republic belongs to countries that are active and are also a sought after partner. The promotion of our interests, our national interests, which we have as the Czech Republic, requires cooperation. I myself gave the initiative to meet in the form of constitutional officials who are responsible for foreign policy and to coordinate. It's a format that hasn't been here in the past. The President of the Republic meets, the Presidents of the two chambers, who are responsible for diplomatic activities of these chambers, after all, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence meet, that is to say, the people who most often represent our country on the outside. This has not been the case in the past, this coordination has not worked and I am convinced that it is a good thing that we have implemented this format and that this format works effectively. Among other things, we are also trying to coordinate foreign trips so that it makes sense from the point of view of the taxpayer. I agree that the disunity of foreign policy is hurting us. That is why I mentioned at the outset the fact that we have a transparent foreign policy and that we have approved the key documents that frame it. We say the same thing abroad that we say here at home. And I would like that to apply to all those representing our country abroad. [[9.50 hours]] And now, honourable Members, on those priorities. We made it clear at the beginning of our mandate that this government is pro-European, that it wants the Czech Republic to act actively in the European Union. Our main concern, which we have and which we have also clearly defined, is to maintain a united European Union and prevent trends leading to its degradation. That's not a theory. Tendences that can ultimately lead to the decomposition and breakdown of the European Union exist here in reality. And if we are to choose whether to support the tendencies that ultimately lead to the Union falling apart, and that is reality, or whether we support the tendencies that will lead to the European Union being maintained, then we have chosen and we have clearly said and we have demonstrated this for three years that we have supported the tendencies that will keep Europe together. I am convinced that this is also our national interest. Our country is mine. defined by economic prosperity, by jobs. Our country is based on export. We produce goods and services that we cannot in any way sell on a small domestic market, which is 10,5 million. population. Our country is dependent on us to free trade in what we produce and invent here. Europe provides us with an opportunity for free movement, free market, and our country benefits from it. We are clearly profiting from the fact that we can offer our goods and services within the great European market. And I want us to profit from it in the years to come. As far as Europe's future is concerned, the two priorities are the most important for us. Firstly, we must manage security in the territory of the European Union. Secondly, we must strengthen economic growth and prosperity in our countries. The Czech Republic has led a group of V4 countries and we have a chance to meet our priorities in this cooperation. We have had a great opportunity to meet these goals at the head of the Visegrad Group. We chaired the V4 from mid-2015 to this July. In our Presidency programme, we have committed ourselves to moving forward in the agendas, where cooperation works within the V4 Group. In energy, security and defence cooperation as well as in support towards the countries of the Western Balkans and their integration into the European Union. We wanted our countries' cooperation to be more visible on the outside and to bring concrete results home. I would like to remind you that this was precisely the period of the Czech Presidency of the V4 when V4 was most prominently reminded of its position to our people here in the Czech Republic. I am convinced that during the Czech Presidency, people here have come back to view the V4 as a real viable format that allows the Czech Republic to influence what is happening in Europe. Before our Presidency began, it was discussed whether the V4 was even meaningful after we joined the European Union. Well, it turns out that it makes sense during our Presidency. The main political issue of our Presidency was migration. We chaired the V4 at a time when the European Union was experiencing the most likely impact of the migration crisis. And it was the Visegrad Four - and none of you can deny that it was the Visegrad Four, which, from the start, held a clear and realistic position on the migration crisis. Firstly, our response to the migration crisis, which we have said from the very beginning, must interfere with the causes of migration, not with the consequences. Secondly, it is not possible for refugees to move between the EU countries without any rules, without enforcing compliance with the rules. Thirdly, it is not possible for the external borders of the European Union to be without control, it is not possible for the rules not to apply there. Finally, fourthly, redistribution by compulsory quotas is not a solution. All these principles aim to ensure security in our countries. You know that these views of the V4 Group have not been accepted positively in Europe. A number of older EU Member States criticized the V4. They said we didn't understand what was happening, that we didn't want to be solidarity, that we didn't see the real problems. Around the positions held by the Czech Republic at the head of the V4 there was a really big debate in Europe. And I am convinced that it was the V4 that brought its view and its own solution into the European debate. And the result of this initiative and pressure from the V4 Group is that the proposals that we strongly disagreed with were not adopted. Permanent quotas have not been approved. Instead, we started to look at proposals for effective assistance in countries of origin. We have begun to address the strengthening of security forces in countries that are transiting in terms of migration. We advocated that the Balkan migration route had been closed. I merely recall the fact that it was a meeting of the V4 countries that took place here in Prague, where representatives of Bulgaria and Macedonia were present, i.e. those countries that had greatly contributed to stopping the migration pressures on the Balkan route. We also have an agreement with Turkey, which has reduced the migration pressure towards Greece. Although our proposals and the V4 countries were criticized at the beginning, we were able to get wider support for a number of our issues throughout the European Union. The second thing I would like to mention, which has been raised here, is the question of sanctions against Russia. The Czech Republic defended two basic principles in the debate on sanctions. Firstly, it is impossible to ignore the fact that international law has been violated in the case of Ukraine and that the sovereignty of the country has been violated. The occupation of Crimea and Russia's clear ingenuity in what was happening in the east of Ukraine have undermined Ukraine's sovereignty. The international community, including the European Union, had to respond clearly to this step. The second principle that we defended in the debate was that the Czech Republic has its own national economic interests. And when the debate on sanctions against Russia started, it was the Czech Republic and some other countries that defended their interest so that those sanctions would damage us as little as possible. And I'm convinced it worked. We have managed to agree on sanctions against Russia. All Member States have supported this, but at the same time, as the Czech Republic, we have negotiated a structure of sanctions that is the least damaging to our real economy and our jobs. So with regard to sanctions against Russia, we agreed with other countries, we found a reasonable solution, but it was a compromise in which, fortunately, our own economic interests and our jobs here in the Czech Republic were also taken into account. The second thing I would like to mention next to the European Union is the relationship with our neighbours. I attach great importance to this neighbourly policy. You know, there's often talk about NATO, there's talk about solving global problems in Libya, Syria, there's talk about the whole European Union. But we shouldn't forget a normal ordinary thing like good relations with our neighbors. And it turns out, and the migration crisis has shown that having good relations with neighbors pays off. It pays off not only economically, but at a time when tension increases, when there are problems, it is important that we be surrounded by countries with which we have solid, correct and friendly relations. Where we're not surprised. Where we don't shock. Where there are no pressures to create tensions between our countries. I am very glad that if you look around us - look at Poland, we continue to have joint meetings of governments. You will look at Slovakia - a joint meeting of governments, the best relationships we have had in history, we maintain. We maintain and Slovák are our closest partners. We are very often coordinated in terms of positions in the European Union. With Germany, and I will get to that, we have established a strategic partnership. But we have significantly shifted relations with Sasko, with Bavaria. These countries are an important business partner for us. And Austria. We agreed with Austria on the Slavkov format, to meet the premieres of the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Austria, to discuss the priorities of neighbourly relations. And the communication between the Czech and Austrian governments has improved significantly. [[10.00 hours]] I think that's the second important result. We are a respected partner within the European Union and are able to assert our opinion. I have made this clear to the migration crisis here, and I have made it clear in the debate on sanctions against Russia. That's one important thing. But the second important thing is that we have excellent relations with all our neighbours in this region where we live, where we work, where our people do business. And there are no conflicts that we would have with any neighbouring state of the Czech Republic. I think it's very important. I would particularly like to mention Germany. Germany is our main business partner, one of our neighbouring countries. I am glad that although we did not agree on the topic of addressing the migration crisis, mutual Czech-German relations can be considered to be the best in history. We have close relations on economic issues, we are dealing with practical issues relating to transport links. Our countries are structurally similar in many ways and our economic model is based on industry, my great tradition is engineering and I think there is a huge potential for good cooperation in terms of innovation of the Czech economy. We formally followed our relations with the Germans until the start of our government, which was adopted in 1997. And I am glad that we have agreed with Germany, and the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic and Germany have signed that we will start a strategic dialogue where we will focus on developing partnerships. We talk very intensively to each other about practical things such as dual education, cooperation in science and research. These include clearly transport infrastructure, improvement of motorway and rail links between our countries. Again, nothing abstract, nothing global, distant reality, but the things our businesses and our people clearly need. We are talking about high-speed railways to Munich and Dresden. As I said before, Czech-German relations have shifted considerably over the last three years. After all, this has been confirmed and confirmed by mutual visits at a high political level. Speaking of Germany, I also want to mention France. I would like to announce that we are continuing to negotiate a strategic partnership similar to the one we have with Germany, also with France. We are trying to strengthen cooperation, because France is also one of the important economic partners and investors in our country. And we believe that, especially after Brexit, communication with France and Germany is important to us. It is an important part of our strategy to keep Europe together. V4 is our key platform, through the V4 we also promote our national interests in the European Union, but at the same time we do not want the V4 to be alone in Europe. To be isolated somehow. We need to maintain a dialogue between the V4 and the other Union states. Therefore, as Čech, we are trying to communicate with the Němec and we are also trying to communicate intensively with France. The last point concerning the European Union and the future ahead. We supported Slovakia, we supported it in launching a debate on the future direction of the European Union. We have a situation where the United Kingdom is looking for a difficult way to leave the European Union. I think it is important that the strong European Union's supporters now come to the floor in Europe, who will be able to maintain and cooperate. Of course, we also have to think about Czech interests in relation to Brexit. And I am convinced that, in relation to brexit, our concern is to maintain access to the British market, but it is also our concern to ensure the rights of our employees and our people who work and study in the UK. This must be our priority. Take care of our people. Those who do business with Britain, but also take care of our students, the employees who work there today. And I don't want these people to be discriminated against in any way. I don't want them to be subject to any attacks that, unfortunately, have multiplied after Brexit in the UK. So far, negotiations with the Brit aren't running. Europe has agreed not to negotiate with Britain individually, we will act as a whole, and negotiations will begin when the United Kingdom announces that it is performing. The moment hasn't come yet. So we will not negotiate individually, but we are preparing our national position, which we will want to put into the position of the entire European Council when Britain announces it to us. I am convinced that I would conclude with this on the subject of relations with the European Union that Europe is an important shield for us against the effects of global change. Today is a debate, and it is interesting that the effects of global change are being discussed today, particularly in relation to the results of the election of the President of the United States. But global change also affects Europe. We are talking about the issue of the competitiveness of steel industry in the Czech Republic. What are we going to do against cheap steel imports into Europe? We're talking about delocalizing the industry. An effort to transfer jobs to countries that do not have social and environmental standards. I believe that the EU, its trade policy, its common practice can be a useful shield for our country and other European states against the negative effects of global change that unfortunately are taking place in the world today. Ladies and gentlemen, at the outset, I mentioned the great turbulence on the international stage. I mentioned war conflicts, I mentioned a deterioration in the security situation in the immediate vicinity of Europe. I am convinced that there is no alternative to the North Atlantic alliance as a guarantor of our security in terms of security. There's no alternative. This does not change the fact that, as the European Union, we are to look for ways to be an active partner within NATO. And I would like you, honourable Members, to remember what our government has already done. Remember what you yourself approved here in this House when we presented the 2015 budget when we presented the 2016 budget and what you will approve in the next year's budget. We really don't have to wait for Donald Trump to tell us to increase defense expenses. Our government three years ago, when a government coalition was formed, when the crisis occurred in Ukraine, we changed the state's security policy. We accepted new security documents, and we started to really increase defense spending. That wasn't here before. We don't really have to wait for Donald Trump to tell us to take care of our defenses. We started to take care of it immediately after the accession of this government, just as the security situation around the European Union deteriorated. Defence spending is growing every year, and I believe that they should also grow in the coming years so as to draw closer to the goal set by the coalition. Defensive expenditure will be 1.4 % of GDP preferably in 2020. No stowaway. We must take our commitments in NATO seriously. We need to take our defenses seriously. What good is an army, and what good is an army that hasn't occupied 40 percent of the tables? Such an army was absolutely not capable of fighting. What good was an army that didn't have elementary ammo supplies in case of combat deployment? When I came to the position of Prime Minister, the then Secretary-General of the North Atlantic Alliance came here to describe the point after which the Czech Republic did not fulfil its obligations under NATO. And that wasn't last year. That was at the beginning of our mandate. What we inherited from previous governments. It's different today! The situation has changed significantly. [[10.10 hours]] As far as elections are concerned in the United States, I see no reason why the results of the US presidential elections should lead to a deterioration in the relations between the Czech Republic and the United States. I would consider it extremely unfortunate if the United States' tendency to isolate, particularly in the security sector, but also in the economic area, was strengthened. As I have already said publicly, I hope that President-elect Trump will be able to calm down the up-and-coming situation in American society. Our country is interested in the best possible trade climate between Europe and the United States. Our country is interested in continuing to guarantee the United States' commitments as a member of the North Atlantic Alliance. Members of Parliament, honourable Members, the black and white division of the world into camps does not, in my opinion, apply. It's not a retreat from any of our values. We are values and we remain in Europe. We are and remain in the North Atlantic Alliance. But I am also convinced that we cannot ignore economic reality. We live in a globalized world. All states are under pressure from the changes I was talking about a while ago. Of course, here we have the framework of international law and we must demand that it be respected. We have a framework here for the United Nations. But none of this will solve the question of how to maintain our position in the global world, how to maintain our competitiveness, how to maintain our prosperity and our jobs. The stupidest response to the problems that globalization brings, and proof of complete cluelessness, is the attempt to somehow cut off from the world and somehow isolate itself from the world. But I don't think closing eyes like that has ever helped anyone. In recent weeks, an intense debate has been launched on our relations with China. I would now like to quote to the beginning of my statement on Czech-Chinese relations excerpts from the concept of foreign policy, which our coalition government approved in July 2015. It says: "China represents one of the world's largest economies and an important player in solving global problems. The Czech Republic will seek regular political dialogue in relation to China, which will enable cooperation to be developed in a wide range of areas, including economy, health, environmental protection, science and research, culture and human rights. In addition to bilateral relations, the main framework for dialogue with China is the strategic partnership between the European Union and China.' In other words, our concept clearly states that China is an important economic and political partner for us. It's a concept approved by the entire government. Therefore, from the beginning we focus on setting a new level of mutual relations. Our priority and catching up with the deficit from the past is increasing the mutual trade balance. It has already been said that the Czech Republic is significantly passive in the mutual trade balance. It's a condition we inherited from the past. I am glad that our exports to China increased by CZK 8 billion between 2013 and 2015. That means our exports to China have increased by 20 percent over this period. It's not small at all, and it's not even an obvious number. It grows every year. The volume of investment in the Czech Republic is also growing. When our government came in, we didn't have any direct air links to China. We have three direct flights today. And the fact that the promotion of mutual relations is successful and has real economic benefits is also proof that almost 400,000 tourists from China are likely to arrive in the Czech Republic this year. Since 2013, the number of Chinese tourists has doubled, their influx into the Czech Republic. So it is obvious that the thawing of relations with China, a pragmatic improvement in relations with China, has opened up new business opportunities, not only to those who are trying to export their goods and services to China, but it has also opened up opportunities in domestic tourism, in Czech spa, in Czech health care. This is all the space that the government has opened for our people, for our businessmen. And without changing relations with China without thawing them on a political level, none of this would have happened. None of this would have become a reality. And I'd like to have a really cold mind with China in this debate. Sometimes I feel that the debate goes beyond rationality and gets into the land of hysteria. Please keep our senses cool and look at Germany's economic relations with China. What relations France, Great Britain, Holland have with her. All these countries have been actively trading with China for years. We're just catching up on the delays we've had in these states today. For us, export support is really a very important thing. I'd hate for it to be referred to as some kind of foreign policy cinderella or something that's here as a pendant. No, it is one of the key objectives of our foreign policy - to create the prerequisites for us to be successful as a country in order to be able to prosper as a country. Unfortunately, in the area of export support, and I didn't go back to the past, and I wouldn't, but I have to say that I was very surprised by President Laudát's speech now, before I started talking, because he referred to the Adulary case as something that may be a problem for our pro-export policy or something that may be a problem for our foreign policy. I just want to remind you that the loan of the Czech Export Bank for the construction of the power plant in Turkey in Adulary, implemented by one of the companies of the Vítkovice Group, was approved in 2010 and 2011. This loan was then granted. Ask yourself who was in charge here at the time. So please don't talk about Adularya here. This is the responsibility of the management of the export bank that the right-wing government has put in place, and it is the responsibility of those who sat under the right-wing government in the supervisory board of the Czech Export Bank. Unfortunately, I have to say, unfortunately, our pro-export policy is burdened with a huge number of cases that come from exactly the same period, from the same period as Adularya, and which can cause great losses. I only recall the Slovakia Steel case - provided in 2008. Kaza Krasavino - provided in 2007. Rjazaň case - granted 2010. All of this will have a multibillion-dollar impact on the losses of the Czech Export Bank. This really was not a happy time in terms of our exports. We have to deal with this now, and we have to pay for it on behalf of other state budget expenditures. But I'm going back to pro-export policy. We have made the business mission organisation system more effective. The moment we go to a country where it makes sense, we organize business missions. When I do as chairman of any foreign trip, I always try to take our businessmen with me and try to prepare a good program for them. I think it's important that this is taken for granted. The war between the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has stopped. As far as export support is concerned, there is a clear concept, there is clear cooperation. And it has its results. And please again, if you want to criticize the government's pro-export policy, go ask about the Chamber of Commerce and Economics, go ask about the Confederation of Industry and Transport, whether they give you their opinion on whether the government is cooperating with them or not in terms of pro-export policy. Listen to what entrepreneurs themselves say, how we try to help them and create conditions for them to succeed. And the same goes for investment, for investment here in the Czech Republic. [[10.20 hours]] I want to mention not only China, I also want to mention the Republic of Korea. After all, the Foreign Minister has just returned from the Republic of Korea. It is Korea, which is our important partner in Asia. It is Korea, where they came from under our government - and our government has agreed and prepared conditions for this - two significant investments: Nexen is building in the Ústí Region and Hyundai Mobis is building a new factory in the Moravian-Silesian Region. It is the result of our economic diplomacy. We have opened a branch of CzechInvest in Seoul and we are trying to have very correct, very intensive relations with Korea in a number of areas. After all, we agreed with the Korean President on strategic cooperation with the Republic of Korea. Even the relationship with Korea. So it is not only China, it is also Korea and other important markets where we are trying to penetrate, but where we want to get investment. Ladies and gentlemen, I have tried to summarize my view of meeting the priorities of Czech foreign policy, particularly in the European context, but also in the economic context. I believe that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who will now perform after me, will certainly complement my speech in much more. I would really like to recommend to all of you who are interested in foreign policy the conceptual documents that our government has approved, which clearly define the limits of what we are doing, what we are doing for our country, so that our country is a respected, respected and strong partner. What we do for our citizens so that our citizens have jobs, and what we do for our companies, so that our companies can export their goods and services and they are put as little obstacles as possible. I am convinced that our foreign policy contributes to our country's success, contributes to the fact that our country is safe, that we have friends, we have allies, and we are able to promote our national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-051-01-000-000.u17	Thank you, too, Prime Minister. I'll read an apology. Today, at 10 o'clock for medical reasons, Mrs Kovářová apologizes. Furthermore, Prime Minister Zaorálek will speak with priority and Vice-President Filip will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-051-01-000-000.u18	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The Prime Minister didn't, but the speakers in front of him really turned on my blood, so I thought, no, I have to be diplomatic. I'd like to say one sentence first. The Czech Republic is an internationally recognized active player in current policy. It's already been said here. I just got back from South Korea last night, and I talked to my counterpart about five times, the last few hours. The result is very important projects, and not only in the economic area. Korea is our very important strategic partner in that area, and these trips are regular today, it's normal work... Even when there's internal turbulence, we have something to talk about. That's a very strong relationship. I'd like to speak for a long time, but I'm due at the State Department in a moment, Mr. Zaríf, Secretary of State of Iran, who is returning my visit to Tehran recently. The Czech Republic has a chance to offer Iran its transformational experience, which we have been asked to do with the fact that we are a country that has passed through socialism into a new system, and there is great interest in knowing about our privatisation, the way we have acted. So we also have something to talk about here. At the same time Boris Johnson arrives, with whom I agreed to visit Prague for the first time. Frank-Walter Steinmeier wants to meet with me on Sunday, German Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier. This is where I hear we're about to be decomposed. What bothers me is that we're, in fact, disintegrating, that foreign policy, or that we don't have a concept. If I have more time, I will tell you thoroughly how we worked, and I will mention it at least, the concept of Czech foreign policy, and as I understand it, and I am convinced that we are actually doing this in a conceptual manner. More than possibly at any other time in this country. So I reject these statements in particular, and I reject the fact that we need some big gestures to change something that is supposedly incomprehensible. I recently drove in a car at night and I hear suddenly from the BBC where it says: Washington Post published a thank you to the United States of the Czech Republic for releasing and saving journalists in Syria. I don't know if you registered it, it wasn't on our news, and I don't know why. It was pretty good to hear. Thanks to the Američan of the Czech Republic. Here in the House today we are discussing - I have been given the initiative here - cancel the embassy in Damascus because this allegedly legitimizes the regime that is discredited. Yes, that's right. Officially, I even received it in a letter. It was in the media. It was Mr Gabal, who called on me to do so. So I'm telling you, these are the kind of gestures you want. Honestly, I don't understand the politicization of Mr. 14th Dalai Lama's acceptance, a completely unnecessary politicization that doesn't happen anywhere in this way today, because don't be angry, but his holiness of the 14th Dalai Lama doesn't want any politicization. He doesn't really want to be politically accepted. I dare say I know for sure because I know his views. And, of course, it's the government coalition's fault, I admit it, it happened to us, it's not the opposition's fault, and it was a mistake. And I was ashamed of it because I felt like we weren't exactly following the elementary rules that were part of when you wanted to talk to someone and you wanted him to be a partner. And that is why I wanted to agree to show that we are holding what we have agreed, because in foreign policy, sticking to what has been agreed is crucial everywhere in the world. And I always wondered when I had the opportunity to start doing this job that I wouldn't repeat the mistakes of the past, because I know that this happened repeatedly in the Czech Republic. I'm not here to recruit and get back to it, but we've managed to make relationships worse in the past 15-20 years, and not with distant countries, even with neighbors, quite fundamentally aggravated relationships simply because we haven't kept our word. And that's not servility, my friends! It's absolutely not servility to me. I don't need to be obsessive. If someone pushes me or tells me I have to do something, I'm the kind of person I'd be angry about. It even happened to me in the past when I wasn't in this position when a representative of some power came to me and laid before me and said, you'll do a), b), c), d), so I almost broke down the door with him. I'm not in the position of someone today who has to take orders from someone or slouch in front of someone. And if it's a hunch, I'm not doing it. If someone really pushed me, I wouldn't do it. And I understand those who don't want to huddle in this country. It would just be good to know who's hustling and who's not and what's hunching and what's just saying, we haven't succeeded in this, my friends, because we look like we want to humiliate each other in a completely incomprehensible way. I had a bad feeling about that. Not because I'm shaking in front of someone, Ježíš Krist, what's gonna happen?! It was another thing that bothered me to look into someone's eyes. It didn't make any sense. Someone's gonna say to me, "Are you crazy? Or why are you doing this? Does that mean you don't give a shit about everything? This is no time for a long debate about China's history and its frustration with the West. I always want to start talking about it, because it's really not a nice history, the way the eight imperial powers in China behaved a hundred years ago, it's terrifying history! Humiliating, humiliating. It's in the Číňany, that's what you'll experience. I always say, when I interviewed there for Chinese TV, the first questions I got were on the cannonboat policy and what happened 100-150 years ago, and that perhaps there were also Czech soldiers who were robbing gold in Beijing. As part of the Austrian army, of course. It's curious for you, but it's true. The Číňan just feel humiliated. They don't expect anything good from the West. And yet you know that in China, who seeks to separate the country, there is an enemy. It's just been like this for centuries. We don't have to accept it, we can think of something else, but we should respect it, because it's just someone's opinion that I think it's important to be able to have conversations with. I agree here with what President Fiala said when he said that pragmatic relations with China are not enough. I totally agree with him. Pragmatic relations are not enough, we really need political relations. That's absolutely true. And I've been saying from the beginning, when you find what I said at the beginning of those relationships, that I don't actually have any excessive expectations in the economic field. I'm incredibly concerned with dialogue. And I was even skeptical that we were able to achieve something in a short time because I knew how Asian partner in general was relatively long-term. [[10.30 hours]] I'm sorry, but today I'm going to say that if we're going to talk for a while about the economic area of a relationship in China, it's not exactly true when it just sounds, look, exports have fallen this year. That's not true. That's just one number. Overall, it seems to me that the entrance is impressive. You know, in such a short period of time, give three flights, and I have information today that three more lines will be set up, which is actually proof of the movement that it is. The negotiations that are being held. And yet you all know that when it comes to billions of investment, these are things that are being prepared in the long run. A few months there, six months there is no measure. And it's very hard to report on something that's going on right now and where I can only suspect the outlines of what's in play today. But it is true that what is in these outlines, in those negotiations, is quite considerable resources and considerable investment. And it won't mean we'll be under the influence of China, nor will it mean we'll be vassals, friends. I mean, look at China's massive investment in many other countries today, including Germany, etc. Although somewhere else, they complain that the investments aren't as big as expected. The logic is simply that China has funds and that it is looking for markets in which it could apply them. And the Czech Republic is a very interesting partner for them. You know why? Because where Čína is limping is the development area. And he has partners in the Czech Republic. This means, what is the most interesting area of cooperation, it is a connection in the field of development. There are simply interesting meetings and interesting projects that I am convinced will and can be mutually beneficial. So making a balance is premature at this point. But I think it was worth telling the Číňan - we're a correct partner, predictable because they care. I'm just afraid of the gestures. Gest, which brings great attention here, great popularity. I'll take your word for it before I start, so I'll tell you. I've come across the words of Ferdinand Peroutka... [[Laughs in the hall.]] I know what a challenge it is to quote Ferdinand Peroutka in this country. That's why I'm going to say it exactly. It's from 1937 about the remarkable difference between politics and literature. I didn't read it in the original edition, I confess. Here begins the problem. I read it in a re-edition from 1991 in the proceedings of General Affairs, State Education Publishing House in Prague. The page is 211 to 218. I find this idea of Peroutkův interesting in terms of foreign policy. Says Peroutka: "The first and decisive sign of political activity is to do something, not just to think or declare something. If we want to do something about politics, we must embark on rather patient, slow, sober, and often gray - looking work. It is not possible to rely on a passionate cry or a unique act that should save everyone once and for all," Peroutka says. "It's harder to moralize than to find an effective method to actually do something." And Peroutka says this search can't be done without moderation, even though it's easier to get applause from radically pleasing gestures. He's got a nice sentence here that I can still quote. "He who fights against the excesses of freedom fights for the preservation of freedom. Although this will not be understood by fanatical supporters of so-called freedom." That's what I was gonna say. We're full here today -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-051-01-000-000.u19	Mr. Secretary, I'm gonna interrupt you for a second. I know this is an excellent speech, but I would like to welcome your colleague to the gallery from the point of view of your inclusion in the Government of the Czech Republic. Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Islamic Republic of Iran Mohammad Džavád Zaríf came to visit us. We welcome him here among us. [[The MPs get up and clap.]] Minister, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-051-01-000-000.u20	I'm just sorry, and I assure the Minister that I will try to finish in time to start the talks in time. [[With laughter.]] Because today it often seems to me that it is worth remembering these words of Peroutkův, because we live in such a quite violently hysterical time. And we are often criticized for not making any more spectacular gestures, more dramatic, in foreign policy. Yesterday I read somewhere that I should become a hawk. That it's a great time. I read that now that the elections in America have gone this way, now it's an opportunity for the State Department to become a hawk and hit Russia because the United States is changing its position. Those are such far-reaching considerations, I don't think they're very precise. On the other hand, I will read that on the other hand, I am too afraid and that I should be much more pronounced. This doesn't surprise me, because when I started, in Brussels, a foreign minister told me, a colleague, I think he was a Holanďan, as I started: Now get used to it, you'll be slapped from the left, from the right. And that's not gonna end. I was thinking no, that's impossible. I'll explain. I can give it to people in Parliament and they'll believe me. Well, I was wrong. I found out that slap from the left, from the right, is really the classic bread that awaits someone who's doing foreign policy today. I'm not even mad about it. Just from this I began to think about how in such an environment not to fall to this, nor to one extreme, but to try to really create some unified common practice that a person is able to agree with most of the time. Because the dramatic challenges, the dramatic challenges, what are the results? I noticed there was a dramatic call for a week of restlessness. That's typical, the gesture! A week of restlessness, it was announced what I noticed. That week of restlessness... It found fertile soil, but in the United States. That's where it really led to mutiny, you might say. That means that this gesture turned out to be a success because there was... However, I understood that in the United States that week of restlessness and elections there led to people saying: Enough of the talking heads. Enough with the media heads. Enough of those who told us what to think and what to feel. The Prime Minister has already spoken about the election in the United States. I confess that for me such an important moment was an unfortunate statement that escaped from Mrs Hillary Clinton's mouth when she said that much of Mr Trump's electorate was losers. Sounds to me like he's a little key to the election. Because I think it's very dangerous for politics and foreign policy if you start thinking you have a patent. And that the others are losers who don't understand anything. And then no wonder Donald Trump became the spokesperson for those poor losers. Those who are not the winners of globalization. And it's quite curious what we have in the United States today. The Republican Party is now the spokesperson for the outsiders! That's something completely new that we didn't have, and we'll see how they deal with it. It's a remarkable choice the Republican party has made with Donald Trump. But I am, because it will be said here that often, as confrontational as Mr Trump's many statements were, so allow me to say one thing that I find interesting for my idea of finding a common policy. It seemed essential to me that the US President, even after such elections, came forward and spoke about the need to unite America. And one quality that was in his performance seems worth picking up. If you remember, he complimented Hillary Clinton in his performance. He commended, appreciated how tough she was, how tough she was, how tough she was, and that she was great. I confess to you that here in the Czech Republic I find this generosity quite... That's something we might notice. And we could register it. The generosity to the losers. I think we Čech have a whole range of very good qualities, but I don't know if we have one. So I'm just saying this as a recommendation. Let's learn, we can learn something from everyone. Here, I suggest we learn this generosity because we're gonna need it. To be able to look at someone that I don't stomp on him and try to make him disappear from the face of the earth, but that I take him as a loser with some respect and respect. I take this as an example of something that we could see positively right at the start of the launch of the new President of the United States of America. And let me... You know, this is what the Prime Minister said. He said that we live in terms of foreign policy quite at a time of such a very uncertain and unpredictable terrain around us. That's right. That is why foreign policy is becoming more and more the subject of public debates. [[10.40 hours]] And I actually have a painting I've been trying to do for a long time - and maybe I'll try to explain to you what I would want Czech foreign policy to try. It seems to me at this time, when I think of this nation, this country, this state, that it is as if, after years, we find ourselves in a situation, I would say a ship that is stuck somewhere on the shores of some wild, dark continent, perhaps Africa centuries ago, we'll just get out there as a crew, as such, and we're supposed to go down that relatively unpredictable landscape. Do you understand? We are a society that may not pass through space, but in time, a period that brings surprises that bring uncertainty, where we meet things that are often hard to estimate. And in a situation like this, it's really hard how this community behaves and how we're able to treat each other. That's why I'm talking about generosity. If we are able in such an unpredictable situation, quite adventurous, our squad, our quest, if we are able to agree on where we are going, on that direction, and to have a certain basic consensus on that so that we can even move forward. Do you understand? 'Cause in that march, there's going to be a statement that somebody's yelling, "We're not going west, we should turn more west," or someone else's just gonna say, "and how we're treating the surrounding tribe, kind of servilently, that's what happened so much, we might want to become their vassals." Do you understand? There's a whole bunch of things that are suddenly irritating, and now it's about making this clear in time so that we can move forward at all, and that we're even a society that goes somewhere in foreign policy. Just so you know, this deal and the ability to deal with these things-- that's why I'm not defending myself from these debates that here-- This morning it was said that everyone, even the opposition, must be a part of it. Yes, because if this section is going to work, if we have a chance to survive this test, it's a test, and it can be a test, because we don't know what's going to happen to us, it's actually very important that we be prepared to have some internal resistance to be able to handle the unexpected that can come. That's why the debate is important. In fact, I've been following from the beginning by maybe taking the slaps from the left from the right, but the important thing is not to fall into any extreme, but to try to build some common basis for moving forward. A quest like this, let's say some scout squad on the march, that's what we are today, and it's how we stand because the world is unpredictable. And it's not quite clear what's in store for us tomorrow. Do you understand? We don't exactly know who the next President of France will be, who will be our partner in the West we're talking about, how even the West is changing. The security we may have felt yesterday is not so certain today. It makes it harder to know and it makes it harder to find a way in and to clarify unnecessary errors or inaccurate descriptions, because the situation may already look different. Do you understand? For me, foreign policy today is also linked to the ability of our division to somehow put together as a team capable of moving forward and able to agree on something. That is why I consider Parliament and this land an important place for us to be able to do such agreements and, let us say, to rule out some unnecessary errors or bubbles that arise on that road and which sometimes attach more importance to each other than they deserve. I'd like to remind you of one thing. Because, then, when I thought about how to unite it, it is also because what you see around here today is a dangerous tendency for countries to break down. Even on foreign policy issues, countries are divided. So let's say the new president of the United States is the first to say "we have to unite," because it's hard to go anywhere if you have a divided country. And you've got a lot of divided countries today. It's not just that the United States must unite after these elections. I could name you - but I probably shouldn't - other countries that are struggling with such a basic division of society today. And it's even close around us. And this is a danger which, of course, is also at risk in the Czech Republic and which needs to be faced. When I joined the State Department, the first thing I announced was an audit, an in-depth inventory of foreign policy. We just turned to all the unions and said, "What you're doing, give us all your agenda, and let's ask ourselves if it makes sense, if what you're doing isn't completely out of control. So we put together quite extensive material, where we dealt with who was doing what and if it was any good at all. Then we continued to work with it. Not just with us at the Ministry. We've turned to professional institutions, we've even turned to you, you may not remember that, we've turned to committees, we've even had two debates here in the House. This means that we have done an in-depth audit and a debate on what are all the different foreign policy objectives that we are pursuing, which are thousands, and where we should clarify what is essential. The result of this work was finally the concept that we presented during this period, and that is where we actually set the main objectives. We said it was security, prosperity, sustainable development, human dignity, including human rights, service to citizens, the good name of the Czech Republic. We even said that Euro-Atlantic space is crucial to us from the perspective of the Czech Republic, then the other territories. I then even decided that this concept will be updated every year, which means that every year it will be worked out how to work with what we have generally formulated in this way every year. When I talk about the expedition that marches on that dark, unpredictable continent, it's actually like a plan for every year we want to go to, what we want to do. And that's what we're working with. We actually work with this, according to which the unions work, according to which the Czech foreign policy works. I say this because I reject the idea that Czech foreign policy is inconclusive. On the basis of this general study, we then developed further strategies. Strategy towards the Western Balkans, non-European territories, the concept of development of external development cooperation. So we built a pyramid of how to proceed, precisely to make sense of it. And, of course, not just this. The important thing is that today in that space, in the process of the jungle, we are actually constantly running into events that we were unable to predict, or it was hard to predict, such as brexit or military coup in Turkey. So what we're doing is actually entering into these new things, which often affect this completely fundamentalally. And that doesn't mean we're losing it, but based on the concept we have, we're responding somehow. Completely simplified. If I take a brexit, what was our answer to the Brexit? We have taken part in the European debate on this, and we have supported the need to continue a united Europe. We rejected debates about institutional changes, about reopening primary law, and we said that the basic thing is to prevent polarization of Europe. To create various centres in Europe, which God forbid in some time will be against each other. Because, as old Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk said, the formation of poles in Europe leads to war sooner or later. This is the experience of the twentieth century. Do you understand? We are also looking for an answer to the new situation, and that is how we act. This means that even our performance in those foreign forums is not random, but it is part of this conceptual approach that we have chosen. And I think that it was just as right in light of recent events when we said that one of the key areas is the building of a European security and defence union. It was said here in the opening speeches that we started talking about the European army. Let's say it's a slogan that gives this theme. I believe that it is extremely important today that it is the European Security and Defence Union, that Europe will be able to stand on its own to a certain extent, that we will create some sections that will be able to carry out missions within our borders, where necessary for the security reasons of the Member States, that are things that have long been calling for us to be able to implement them. It is not so surprising to announce Donald Trump - how are we supposed to help Evropan when they don't meet their budgets? That it's such a shock, we shouldn't look like that. It's been hanging in the air in America for 20 years - why do we Američan have to pay Evropan defenses? Are the Evropan so much poorer than we are that they can't pay for it themselves? This is a common view in the United States. So that Donald Trump expressed it in such a dramatic way may have scared us a little bit, but we could count on this. It was a matter of time before it happened. Finally, Barack Obama, when he was recently in Europe, spoke very hard on this subject. [[10.50 hours]] This means that this is a topic that we have to deal with, and that we also have to stand up to it as the Czech Republic and, let's say, be an example for others, that is a strong topic. That's the conceptual answer to what's going on. So it's not like we suddenly thought of it. So what is the concept rather than having a certain general idea and putting the specific reactions into it? We don't react confusedly. Someone said we only respond to situations. Look, everyone has to respond to the situation, because few people here knew that they would have to respond to brexit and conflict in Ukraine, and I don't know. The events we see around us were just unexpected. We don't have prognostic experts today who would be able to tell us what the key events of 2016. It's just that the events usually fall on us so much that we can't be surprised. But that doesn't mean we can't be ready to act. We have to count on the alternatives, and that's why I just don't feel like I'm surprised. Today we have a new American president. I think that the president is going to represent a certain new chapter in relationships because it's obvious that he has new views, but that's not something that's gonna scare me or panic me. I think that in something even those new views may be quite necessary, and we will wait for exactly what they will be. At this point, we don't know many things yet - who will be the Foreign Minister, who will be the other creators of American politics. We are ready to act for the Czech Republic. We have a whole series, a big agenda with America that we want to continue. It was said here that I was just angry that someone here said that we now have a bigger deal with America than with Russia. Yes, but our growing trade with the United States is one of the fastest growing export destinations, well, that's a joy. I consider it a good thing, a conceptual thing. And it's not random, that's what we're doing. I have repeated hundreds of times here that I would want the Czech Republic to push for quality products that it sells at a decent price in countries such as America, Israel, Switzerland, Germany and so on, because when we achieve good prices for high-value products in these countries, it allows us to increase wages here in the Czech Republic, which I understand as a strategic objective of the nation's economy, that we are increasing living standards here by means of quality production, which we will sell in the most demanding markets. And I'm happy for everyone like that, and I support it not only verbally here. We're really doing something about it, we're even setting up there, we're strengthening economic representation in those countries, right in Israel. We even have a new diplomat for science and research. And in those other countries, we put people there to help us do that. Those are the things we get paid. I'm prepared to brag about it here that we've increased the scope of trade, exports, cooperation with the United States, because it's a challenging market, and apply to it, that's what we're good at. So I guess it wasn't meant to be, but I'm thinking, don't criticize us for that, that's something that corresponds to the interests of the Czech Republic. It was said here that we made an incision in Czech foreign policy. That's what I'm interested in, too, the expression that we made some kind of incision. So what cut did we make? Yes, I agree, it is not all the same, it is true that our policy is not the same as our predecessors' policy. I'm not hiding that at all. I have no secret that we have brought a change, and I can tell you what. The first thing is China, far from the only one, because I did not agree that we had frozen relations with China. I didn't agree with this country... By the way, in 2008, 2009, when the world crisis broke out, they all athelied that China's economy held the world together, because that was when Economist published the first-page plane, one engine was America, the other was China, the American engine hiked and the Chinese one kept it in the air. This was an image that was in the West. Back then, we were happy that China and its economy were even holding the plane in the air. So remember, without Čína, it would be hard to cope with the economic and financial crisis. So let's not play hypocrites. That doesn't mean we won't be critical of China. And I'll even tell you, the Czech Republic is on top of criticism against China. It is precisely because we have a dialogue that we have not had before that we can criticize at all. But I repeat, we have to do this by following the rules of the game, and we don't take steps that are incomprehensible. Then we can criticize and then we can talk to them directly about it. And they deserve criticism in a number of areas. But it is not enough, as it was before this government came, when we could only criticize in pubs for ourselves, because we didn't talk to her at all. So, yes, we've changed this policy, and I think it's far more sensible, far more effective. And we also changed Czech foreign policy. I'll tell you in a completely simple way what I didn't agree to. Here in this country, there have been voices in foreign policy in the past, in 2003, no one is claiming it anymore, but there have been a lot of those who said that we had to attack Iraq, that this is Western policy, this is supposed to be a European position. How many were there who faced it? And when you said it was wrong, that it was ill-conceived, they said to you, "Quiet, you are not of the West, you are acting improperly, you should be silent." So it was in 2003. Many of you don't remember. But that's not enough. [[He speaks in a very fast, strong voice.]] Then when the situation in Libya, in this country, remember, look, there were people who said in foreign policy that we had to attack in Libya. I can name them for you, but I won't do it, it wouldn't be fair. So it was said at the time: that is European politics, to attack in Libya. You all know how it turned out, we're still reaping the consequences. Completely broken ground. How we need a partner in Libya! Well, we don't have it there, because the country suddenly, after our great ones, can't be put together at all, and we're paying for it in a huge way. What's more! I could name the names of those who have said here in foreign policy: in Syria, let us invade, let us overthrow Asad! You want to hear the names of the people who said that? [[Voice from the O.R. Yes.]] I'm correct, Mr. Colleague, so I don't want anyone... But there were those who said: overthrow Asad! This was also Czech foreign policy. And this was also thought to be Western policy. Everything is considered a policy of the West. I'm saying it was a bad policy. And today it's not Europe's politics anymore. Today, when we say that things can't be dealt with by invading democracy, this is European politics today. We're not somebody today, like we're weird. This is the thing we share today. When I say this, I share it with European partners. I'm not out of European debate, I'm not the one taking the country to the East. This is where it slides, and unfortunately it started one speech in Rudolfinum, now I hear it all the time and I see signs - we want to go west! And there is an absolutely false impression, absolutely false, that someone is dragging Czech politics somewhere else. What exactly is the West? For me, the West is connected to critical thinking. To me, the West isn't... You know, it's like when I said I wanted to, like Peroutka says, it takes a calm, considerate policy, not gestures. You know, the big gestures, somebody takes an example more in oriental despocy than in the West. That's not what I understand about the West. I think of him as a critical environment in which you get what you think critically. That's the West for me. On the contrary, conformal attitudes, I don't think they're worth much there, nor do they take you as a partner. And I hope this applies to the West for the future. This means that I am critical of a certain part of the Czech foreign policy of the past, and I am able to say what I did not like and what I did not like, and it can be found that I did not agree with it at the time. I'm not gonna bother you, it's that stupid "I told you so" thing, I don't want to repeat that here because I think it's funny. But just so you know, I didn't remember until today that this criticism of a certain understanding of foreign policy, and I spoke to it earlier, it's not that I woke up today. So I'm gonna be straight with you. Yes, that is where foreign policy has changed, because I think that at that time it was wrong to think, and thank God Europe today is closer to what I say. We are unable to change regimes in the Middle East by breaking in. We're not gonna be able to put it in there because it's not that big of a deal. I was talking to Staffan de Mistura, and he said to me, "You in Europe shouldn't talk so much about who you want, or you don't want to lead Syria, if you want, or you don't want Asad, 'cause in Syria, people are wondering why these Evropan are always meditating on whether Asad does or not, that's our thing, isn't it? If they give us a chance to decide and choose, they have nothing to say to us, who we will make tomorrow as a representative of Syria. So the fact that we live here by who we put in there is the remains of what was said to be, let's go in there, make order. I'm sorry, today we have experience of breaking in and making order, that's a hell of a thing that, unfortunately, isn't going to be chronically successful. And that's not cowardice when I'm here today saying that this is a much more sensible approach. This does not mean that I do not want Europe to be involved. I even think we have little involvement in Syria, and you know that the Czech Republic is very much involved in Syria. We're there today because of the embassy we have, we're actually delivering guidelines, the principles that we're making up in Europe. [[11.00 hours]] Today, on that last visit, we delivered a request to create an eastern corridor in Aleppo to enable humanitarian aid. That was the specific thing we were handing over in Damascus. Also the červený Crescent. Unfortunately, what happened was insufficient, because it was too short of a truce, so it didn't work. But we were involved in a specific solution to the matter. Thanks to the contacts and information we have, we're able to try something there. And don't be mad at me, that's how our reputation grows. When our services work in these places, they tell me if they're not there, that others envy us because they know we're in the field, that we know what's going on there, and we're able to design solutions. In the debates held in Brussels, too, this information gives me the opportunity to speak much more intimately and competently here, because we have first-hand information. But that's against what I've heard here again, and the mood I often feel here, what Czech foreign policy can do. I really don't agree with that. Let me tell you again what I started. The Czech Republic is an active international player and is part of foreign policy, and strong! And in a lot of things, I'd say we're playing above our weight because we have a great tradition and reputation because we're an industrialized country and because they think we're a solid stable partner. And I am even glad to be able to represent and conduct foreign policy for a country with such a reputation. You know well that in a number of countries and the Middle East and so on, where many others have engaged in painting maps and so on, the Czech Republic is a country that is perceived as not coming with power demands that are not threatening to redraw maps, and which is very well equipped economically, industrially, to be able to help those countries. I feel like we have a huge advantage in a number of countries today. We have a very good chance of working together. So I feel like a representative of a country that has a remarkable history that has a legacy of extraordinary economic, political, cultural abilities, and all of this helps a person to do foreign policy in a way that we should not be ashamed of. I reject any suspicions of bending and servility. In my opinion, these are media things that are quickly created, and then sometimes they are hard to fight. But I guarantee you here that Czech foreign policy is being done today with a straight spine like a country that is a partner to others, even countries that are many times bigger than us, and I guarantee you that I wouldn't bend to anyone if they wanted me to. But I'm capable if there's a mistake, so I'm able to apologize or say this won't happen again because it wasn't fair. We don't want to humiliate anyone. The crazy thing is, it can happen to someone who's way bigger than us. And I'm sorry. I want the Czech Republic to keep its word to be a predictable partner, correct, and I want foreign policy to be a matter of broad public consensus. That's why I used the image of the troop that's going through the hard time and the continent full of pitfalls. And I would very much like us, like that scout squad, to keep ourselves together, and to show that we have qualities that, even in difficult times, will allow us to move forward. Because like I said, it's a test. I understand it as a test of our ability to make a deal and make a deal. What I would consider to be the greatest misfortune is a society divided into extremes where we can't really figure out what we want and where we're going. So I would like to help this joint march of the Czech Republic and I am prepared to discuss all these matters in committees and in the House. I'm just sorry that Minister Zaríf is expecting me. It's not an expression of my rudeness, it's that it would be very incorrect to keep him waiting. So I'm so sorry, and I'm only leaving because I'm ready to come back and go anytime.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-051-01-000-000.u21	I thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for his speech, and I am sure we will be happy to release him to take care of his departmental colleague. I'm gonna ask for a replacement in the meeting because I'm duly logged in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-051-01-000-000.u22	Good morning, my dear colleagues. Please to the microphone with priority right of Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-051-01-000-000.u23	Thank you. Madam President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I would like to discuss the priorities of the Czech foreign policy if this point were to be included after the government presented a document on these priorities, and I expected this, frankly, after British citizens decided in a referendum to withdraw from the European Union. I can't support this point, which is actually based on the fact that somebody's gonna cause a conflict here, the conflict will open up, and whoever brought it on wants to grill the government on it. I am a representative of the strongest opposition party and I consider this procedure not illegitimate, but stupid. Let me say a few things about this unopened point that I have to respond to, which is why I did not want to appear before the Prime Minister or the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Even how some have taken this up, who spoke before the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister, allows me to say that I do not consider today's negotiations to be a negotiation that would lead to the unification of Czech foreign policy from the perspective of both the government coalition and the opposition. But if we already have this point, or we have the proposal, let me at least say what I thought was necessary to remind you at this point. It is not possible to say, after the outcome of the UK referendum, that the current bureaucratic model of the European Union is sustainable. Integration, and European integration in particular, is an objective process, and in this objective process we must clearly look for our own role as the Czech Republic, as part of Europe, not now I mean the European Union. And rejecting institutional changes also means rejecting the necessary changes that the citizens of Europe are waiting for. I don't consider this step and procedure to be right. Maintaining Europe's integration means accessing it from the point of view of the needs of citizens, not from the point of view of the needs of European bureaucracy. What I can confirm is that it is not possible to consider the right foreign policy the way in which we will mentor other sovereign states. The Czech Republic, as the legal successor of Czechoslovakia, confirmed in 1976 after the Helsinki Conference that it would respect the international pact on civil and political rights. And let me remind you, for several times in this House, that Article 1 (2) (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) 1 clearly states and obliges us, in its own way, to behave like a sovereign state, so that we can demand it from others that each nation has the right to its own political regime which it chooses and to use its natural resources. This is indeed the basic introductory phrase of the international pact. Therefore, if we want to create our own political regime as citizens of the Czech Republic, as a Czech nation, if you want, and use our own natural resources, we cannot promote politics anywhere, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs has just commented, that we will invade and create a political regime for them according to our expectations. That's impossible. First, everyone who wants to do so violates this international pact by which we are bound, and second, he makes a grave mistake in his own policy and actually reduces the seriousness of our state. [[11.10 hours]] If I've heard here in the opening speech by President Fiala that the president may be stepping out of foreign policy, that's ridiculous. I do not remember the greater unification of the President's and Government's progress than it is now. Despite all the peripetia that they have between them. But I remember huge excesses both at the time of Václav Havel and at the time of Václav Klaus. This was a much bigger dispute at the time, much more conceptual, and forgive me, much more striking Czech foreign policy on its knees. And now I'm gonna try to say to the company that's going somewhere. I agree with the Minister of Foreign Affairs that our procedure must be a step forward. And this is no fun, nor is it a repetition of old schemes, and on the contrary, I believe that the procedure must be supported by some specific document, which, among other things, by the government. I'm waiting. And here I am reminding you, because as this meeting has been called up, we are not allowed to discuss the concept of Czech foreign policy, so I will not vote for the agenda of the meeting, because only then can we talk about individual foreign policy points. What's going on? If we are to make progress, we need to know what changes the Czech Republic will have to make as part of the European Union. I remind you that we have entered Europe on the basis of a referendum. If we want to do something else, we must call for a referendum on whether we want to stay here or whether we want to stay in the European Union. Or if we have our own politics and our own whims, we will cause Europe to fall apart on its own. Her bureaucratic model. That's the first moment. The second point is that the issues of building a security and defence policy or a defence union, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said, are a question of fundamental conceptual change of what it looks like in the Treaty of Lisbon. In this respect, Mr. Juncker's scream surprised me. Because we can't afford to pay two armies, twice security. What has been proven? That the security policy, although based on the principle of cooperation and belonging, does not prevent the dangers facing Europe. It has clearly been shown that Frontex cannot control the protection of the European Union's external borders, the external protection of Schengen. And when someone tries to do that, even in their own way, as Hungary did, it is purged by the European Commission. You've got to be kidding me. So either we want to protect the external border, and then we don't have to talk about whether or not they have to restore the protection of national borders, or we don't want it. And those who do not want the protection of the external border, i.e. the Schengen border of the European Union, are working against Europe, against individual national states, in my view, and I strongly disagree with that. What has been proven? And I could go back to 2014 and 2015, when the big migration crisis started. All we talked about was how he threatened us. No one was talking about how to prevent the migration crisis from addressing its cause. That's what bothered me the most. Because you can't deal with the consequences permanently without solving the causes. And if the migration crisis is caused by the broken Libya, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs said, by the war in Syria, by the terrible situation in Iraq, then if there is no peaceful solution in this territory, then we cannot resist perhaps paying Turkey 6 billion. Euros, or another state, for holding our own borders. What good is our participation in NATO if it is to be a defence pact? When I recall the Washington Treaty and think of its articles, I ask who is defending the internal territories of the States of the Pact. If it's not NATO, then what's it for? In that case, let us really discuss how security and defence union will be built. What means, where we take it, and how we do it. I am in favour of a calm and prudent policy. I'm not up for any excesses. But in that case, we must clearly state who will be the guarantor of the Czech Republic, its territory, but also the territory of our neighbouring states, whether Slovakia, Austria, Germany, Poland, when I took the closest neighbours, but also other states of Europe, who will guarantee that this territory will not become a warground for the third time. That means the territory of war operations. But no one's guaranteeing that. The last guarantee was in the Helsinki Treaty of 1975, which was called on security and cooperation in Europe. The guarantee of no fighting on this territory was then the Soviet Union and the United States of America. It was logical. It was in the bipolar world. But it ended in 1990. The one-polar world came to an end when they decided everything in Washington, and this world also ended. And it is obvious that if we are to guarantee that the territory of the Czech Republic and the territory of Europe will not be a warplace, so for Europe to build its security and defence union with its own resources from taxpayers' own money, it must guarantee the three points of the multipolar world that are already firmly formed. And that, of course, is the United States, the Russian Federation and China again. Because they're permanent members of the Security Council, and without them, we're not taking over the guarantee. These three states. Because England and France, as permanent members of the Security Council, will have to see to it that this territory does not become a battlefield. But that will be in their interest, so I have no doubt that they will be in favour of these three other permanent members of the Security Council guaranteeing us any other security conference. Please, he doesn't have to be in Helsinki at all. It may well be in Prague and we can demand that those who are currently forming our security system, whether it be the NATO pact, whether it be the built security and defence union of Europe, guarantee us that there will be no war here. There won't be any war operations. There won't be any war operations. That the flows of refugees will not aim here and will not threaten the integrity of the individual countries of Europe. That, in my opinion, is a crucial matter. And if we don't want to think about her, we don't have to. But I'm not going to think about her being an artificially created problem that she's done here by one of the government ministers who thinks she can be part of a collective, a government, a collective body that decides in the congregation, and at the same time do whatever she wants. Yesterday I said that I respect other people's opinion that I respect that we can have different opinions about individual things. But I cannot respect anarchy in matters which threaten the very principles of our state's functioning, our parliamentary democracy and our future. Don't be mad at me, I can't support this point because I don't have enough ground for it from the government. But I expect him. I expect the government to explain what change it must make in its foreign policy concept just after the UK has left and the conditions in Europe and the European Union itself have changed. I believe that we, as the Chamber of Deputies, are entitled to this and that the government has sufficient time and strength to present this to us. Thank you. [[Applause from Members of the KSČM]] .
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-051-01-000-000.u24	Thank you and please another with priority rights and that is another Vice-President of the House, Petr Gazdík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-051-01-000-000.u25	Good noon, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Unlike many others, I do not feel like an expert on foreign policy and I would very much like you to allow this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies so that others who are the experts on foreign policy can speak for our club. I am only looking at this with my common sense, and therefore - unfortunately, there is no Foreign Minister, but there is a Prime Minister who may be able to answer my common sense questions. If we are talking about the acceptance statement of the highest constitutional officials of the Czech Republic towards China, which the government said was necessary, then I must ask: Is this treaty really binding for us between the Czech Republic and the People's Republic of China, even if it has not been discussed by Parliament? Do we have to follow it? Can the Chinese embassy enforce it and demand some assurance? The Foreign Minister himself said in one of his statements that the treaty was not legally binding. Article 10 of this Treaty refers to respect for human rights. Are you convinced, Prime Minister, that our government is convinced that China respects human rights? We all know the reality. So only one party must respect the commitments, namely us, and China must not? So are we really equal partners of China, we are a proud country and a proud partner just as China is? The Minister spoke publicly, and that is another question of my own, about the government's closed negotiations, where the treaty was supposed to be discussed. And I would like to ask: How can the Foreign Minister speak publicly in the media about the government's closed negotiations without the government deciding to uncover the negotiations? Why doesn't the government cover it up or release a record so we can really know what they were talking about? Those are my simple questions, and I believe I'll get an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-051-01-000-000.u26	Thank you, Vice-President Gazdík. Now, with priority rights, Mr Marek Černoch, President Stanjura will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-051-01-000-000.u27	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. After the performance of Prime Minister Sobotka and Minister Zaorálek, it will be a response with such an indication that the behaviour of the government in foreign policy resembles anything other than the foreign single policy of an advanced sovereign state. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister, who here has spoken flamingly about this House remembering what all this has been approved of, that we should not forget. We don't forget, Prime Minister, because it was this House, which, for example, adopted a resolution rejecting visa-free travel with Turkey, which you, through the media, indicated that you would not follow this resolution, that you would not respect it. So I ask, do you respect the House, or do you not respect the House, or what it is? The next question is such a reaction to the words that, at the beginning of the House, there was talk of an increase in the military budget, that each state should carry out its duties, that they criticize us for it. This was also heard from the mouth of Minister Zaorálek. Yes, it's true, Prime Minister. It's true. I was a member of that commission that was supposed to negotiate some comprehensive consensus on foreign policy in the framework of the military increase, in the framework of the military modernisation, and after several months of negotiations by this commission, which I think worked perfectly uniformly across the political spectrum, so after months of negotiations, this commission suddenly ended. And when I asked why, I was told that Prime Minister Sobotka had decided to do it all his way. Well, you've blown up this commission and this effort, Prime Minister. That's reality. You're talking about respect. Your government, Prime Minister, doesn't even respect its own government, i.e. people among themselves. How else can it be explained that when negotiating the adoption or non-acceptance of mandatory quotas about a year ago, Minister Dienstbier suddenly informs the media that we are capable and that we should accept 15,000 migrants when another member of the government says otherwise? It is a unified government policy, is it a unified government action in foreign policy, or is it not? The government says: we have a united position on China and its foreign policy. Then Minister Hermann will accept the Dalai Lama on official soil, which, as we are about to learn, is not the official position of the government. So what's the official government position? And if Minister Zaorálek here says in a fiery and emotional way how economic foreign policy improves at a dizzying pace, and from his words one feels that we are almost an economic power, why is the share of exports - imports with China only 10% in favour of Czech exports? Why are you just saying how you're gonna work on this? So start really helping Czech exporters and don't tell them everything is covered in pink light. You're changing your mind as it suits you, and in the case of foreign policy, you're showing what foreign policy of a sovereign state really isn't supposed to look like. You are unable to agree on a single procedure, you are unable to agree on a single consensus. The time that is coming is really difficult and it will be even more complicated. There's no point in lying to yourself that it's gonna get better all of a sudden. On the contrary, I think it will be harder and harder and it really needs to act as a sovereign state in foreign policy. Just look at the events of the last few months, let it be a migration policy, let it be a brexit, the current state of the European Union. The European Union cannot accept the slightest reflection and continues to pave the way for bureaucratic solutions. brexit, Secretary of Zaorálek, wasn't a coincidence. This is the result of the separation of European politicians and elites from their own citizens. The result is that they have stopped listening and listening to their own citizens. It's in a "say what you want" mode, and we're still gonna do it the way we want" way. We had a meeting with the President of the Parliament of Sweden yesterday. I have to say, it was after a long time a meeting that personally filled me with some optimism, that it was without political correctness, that things were said completely straight and as they are. And it really doesn't work out any other way in the next few months and years, because if we keep cycling into some constant political talk and slap each other on the shoulders, how it's all going to work out and how it's all gonna be good, it's not gonna do any good. And I would like to invite Minister Zaorálek to come and see the Committee on European Affairs. Not at a time when it leaves for the summit or when it leaves for the European Commission, but at a time when this committee is discussing an agenda coming from the European Union. These agendas are mostly regulations and directives, and when the Czech Republic or any Member State stands up to it, it gets a diplomatic answer: say what you want, you can do it, but we'll do it our way anyway. This is no way to act. And until we confront the European Union in the sense that the Czech Republic is a sovereign state, that it will defend its own citizens in the first place, there will simply be no other way. So start acting unitedly, build the Czech Republic the respect that the Czech Republic deserves, and defend the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic. Your own citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-051-01-000-000.u28	Thank you, Mr Černoch. Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura now. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-051-01-000-000.u29	Nice almost noon, nice colleagues, nice colleagues. By the time I got to the main one, many of you were smiling to tell me that the Foreign Minister had announced a brief speech and then talked for a long time. So, you guys who weren't here last term, I have to assure you that he kept his word, and it was a brief speech on Lubomír Zaorálek. I really do. [[Laughs in the hall.]] That's it. [[11.30 hours]] And now, without irony, I want - well, he's not here again - to ask the Foreign Minister to come to the Chamber of Deputies sometimes, because I kind of miss the fights with him. Because unlike other members of the government, he has some opinions you can argue with. And that is far more valuable than those who are silent and we have never heard any opinion from them. And I really don't mean that ironically. And today, when I saw him here again... You understand - you understand - you understand... [[♪ Showing off ♪]] So I was so nostalgic about the ten hours a week he used to talk here every week. Ten hours wouldn't be necessary, maybe two or one would be just like today. And since the Prime Minister has been talking for a long time, but he hasn't told us anything as usual, my performance is more likely to respond to the words of the Secretary of State who said something to us. He started this - and that is the thing that we, as citizens' democrats, would underline and agree with - that there should be continuity in foreign policy. I'm sure he does. The state, a reasonable self-confident state, cannot change its fundamental priorities in foreign policy after each election and according to the momentary political coloration of the Czech government. So that's the thing that we totally agree with and call for repeatedly. I liked his first sentence in the Prime Minister's performance. Although she was not honest - he said 'I welcome that we can debate foreign policy today', but at the same time I know from the debate with many of you that although the Prime Minister welcomes it, he will not support his club so that you too can perform, who do not have priority rights. So it's like this - I'd like a pub, but not to go to it, like Jara Cimrman said, or one of the characters of that famous play. So if you really want to debate foreign policy and where else, other than the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, you defy the recommendations of your fellow Members and vote. If you have anything to say about it. If you're interested in anything. If you have a question or an opinion. Well, here's the space. And unfortunately, it's created by the opposition. I agree that we are in troubled times and we are going to harder times. And it is strange, therefore, that either at each or every other parliamentary meeting, the government does not come alone with a proposal for a debate on foreign policy, and we have to do this and enforce it, get signatures and convene extraordinary meetings. So either we are in a difficult and troubled time, and the government is aware of it, and that is why it often has a debate in the Chamber of Deputies, or we are not. The Foreign Minister used us to be such a troop. I'd say we're supposed to defend national interests, but it's actually the same thing, just in other words. And we agree again. And remember, at least a year, we've been calling for a debate on foreign policy here, and for a year we've been trying to get a basic sentence in your head - outside and in foreign policy we're just gonna be as strong as we're gonna be at home. And we see that not only is there not a debate on the common position of the Czech Republic between the government and the opposition, between the coalition and the opposition, but obviously from practical steps, and the President of the Fiala pointed them out, there is no debate within the government coalition. Yet the Prime Minister here will say a false sentence: our foreign policy is transparent and unified. If it wasn't so sad, it's almost ridiculous. The Foreign Minister said a rather serious matter, and I would also say a serious accusation. I agree with the two speakers from social democracy that relations with our neighbours are crucial. And the Secretary of State said we had worse relationships with our neighbors when they came to the government. Well, I'd like to know which one. Because if she's in something, and she really is, the continuity, she really is in a very good relationship with all our neighbors. And it wasn't always so idyllic. Let us remember - and we happened to be in government at that time - a strong movement against Czech nuclear power plants from one of our neighbors. And we defended Czech national interests and defended the position of the Czech Republic. If this is considered a deterioration in neighborhood relationships, I don't see it that way. That is simply what we defend our national interests and strive patiently for our allies, i.e. and our neighbors, explaining our position and getting them on their side. So the next time the Foreign Minister is here, I'd like to hear a specific answer to that first question I'm asking, which neighbors we've had worse or bad relations with. I don't think it's true. In those two performances I recorded at least three strategic alliances - I am talking about Prime Minister Sobotek and Foreign Minister Zaorálek. If you remember their words well, aside from China, South Korea and Germany... I don't want to argue with that, I just want to ask two more specific questions to the government as a whole. What does it mean to be a strategic alliance, and how many strategic allies do we have? Because if we have 20 of them, it kind of devaluations the word strategic. For us, for the citizens of the Democrats, it's simple. The strategic alliance is NATO and the European Union. In the first place. And we're not defending ourselves. And you are pushing us - especially the left is pushing us - such a simplified and false view that the right does not want trade relations with China. But that's not true. We are just saying that we should treat China as our allies and our strategic partners from Europe or from America. So we don't ask ourselves a false question, whether human rights or trade. To deal with this like the Němec, the Brit, the Američan who deal with it both ways, and it's not a dilemma - one or the other. And there's the success of their Asian foreign policy, if I may say so. When you look at the numbers, imports from China have risen by more than 50 percent during this government. And the export-import relationship is roughly the same, 1: 10. This is not a favourable relationship for the Czech Republic. I really don't. So let's try together - and I say together - to make this trade more balanced, i.e. our larger export. But when we're talking about pro-export policy here, I'm convinced that this government is neglecting, or doesn't put so much emphasis on not using such a strong word on Japan, the key economic power in Asia. If you ask which goods can succeed on the Chinese market, it is automatically goods that have succeeded on the Japanese market. And we don't even have business representation in Japan. We don't. And that's a thing that can be handled and changed by an executive decision. We don't need any law to do that. I would recommend that we talk about this together and try to talk about it and do what we say, that success in Japan is the key to economic success in Asia, because, as it was once in the Czech Republic or even during communists in Czechoslovakia, when every German commodity was automatically understood by the population as the quality, this is how it works with Japanese goods in Asia. And we use little, and we support little of our exporters to Japan. We all know that Asian markets are all complicated. And it's not just the geographic distance, it's another culture of business, it's another culture of negotiation. So it's difficult. But we should focus especially on Japan. Today, we heard it from the Prime Minister's mouth, this will be Boris Johnson, Secretary of State of the United Kingdom. The fourth question I'm asking in my performance. What is the position of the Czech Republic on Brexit? What's that? Did we talk about this? Coalition - opposition? We didn't. Although we have repeatedly called for it. So I'm asking if you guys at least talked about it with each other, three government parties, what's the position? And I'm going back to what Minister Zaorálek said. How can we promote our view on how the European Union should proceed on the issue of brexit when we have not said it here at home in the Czech Republic? And we will keep telling you that we will be strong outside just as we will be united in the Czech Republic when you believe it and when you act accordingly. Because this is a concrete proposal on how to defend Czech national interests. And we didn't even start the debate. Maybe the intersection is bigger than we think. Maybe it's smaller than we think. But we didn't find out at all. [[11.40 hours]] This, of course, has to do with the key question of how to change the European Union. Our political opponents often say: the ODS wants to leave the European Union. It's not true! It's not true, it's a dirty political attack. Nothing else. But at the same time, we are Eurorealists. We're quite proud of it. And it is quite smiling when those who have neglected us for ten years have ignored us, and not only in the Czech Republic, but also in Brussels, today with a serious face, walk to those microphones and say, as Mr Juncker: We must reform the European Union! Okay, well, let's not play who said it first, let's just let the ODS say it for 10 or 15 years, and let's really talk about it. And the Foreign Minister here will say: we have argued that the primary law of the European Union should not be changed. Wrong attitude! He's not consulted with the opposition! Without a change in primary law, there will be no profound reform of the European Union and, unfortunately, it will then self-destruct. Really. So you who are naively pro-European, listen to us who are really pro-European, because our program says how to save it. But it won't work without reform. Reform without changing primary law is nonsense. So then we're a weak partner. Because the Czech government does not have support in this position, we think, in the Czech political scene. He has partial support, I agree with that, I'm not saying it's just social democracy. But it's serious, and we're not talking about her again. And we ask, "Why? Answers are possible two and one is worse than the other. The first is that the government, the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister is afraid of the debate. That's the wrong answer. And second, I think even worse, that they don't really know what the Czech Republic is supposed to promote and what the position is. And they chose their favorite non-conflict tactics - we'll wait for the big guys to agree, and then we'll join them in the mainstream. But we are a full member of the European Union, we have a chance to create a majority opinion. But what is the opinion of the Czech Republic, the political representation of the Czech Republic about how and how to change the EU? Or we'll listen to the cliché that leads nowhere, virtually. the EU's demise is that the only answer to these legitimate citizens' issues is more Europe, more Europe, closer integration, little integration, we must add. It's just not like that. And I feel, and I think you have to give me credit for looking back at the three years we sit together in the Chamber of Deputies, the only debate we have about Europe, the European Union, is this: we have to draw! We're not pumping! We're gonna save him! Let's move! One program, the other program! This operational programme, 24 operational programmes, eight operational programmes! Over and over. That's one. And two, you have to approve! We're in danger of infringement! They'll start negotiations with us! But we're starting with ourselves! It's not them and us! What are we afraid of? We're the last of the Paris deal! Instead of asking, "Is that a good thing? Aren't we making hundreds of billions of costs for our companies here? It's a legitimate debate! And when we say it's good, let's talk about whether or not to ratify it! And not that we're the last. Let's be proud that we didn't sign this stupid thing last! There's nothing wrong with that! When someone's last or in a minority, it doesn't mean they're wrong. And look how other states do it! It defends its national economic interests very effectively. And they often hide it under the cape of uniform licenses, uniform certifications. Ask Czech companies how they obtain certification for their products, especially in the old Member States of the European Union! How complicated it is. Only the Minister of Transport sits here. From his resort he could tell long stories about our railroad manufacturers, what artificial administrative obstacles they have. Which, of course, we are not even willing to name and we are pretending to be about consumer protection, product quality. It's not like that! Very often, almost always the specific economic interests of large companies are behind this. And not Czech. And he's hiding behind the certification, and I don't know what it's all about. You all know it. And the third part of European policy over the last three years: we must implement! We have to! We have to! We have to! Remember, EIA, and now I could make a service bill, etc. And it kind of reminds me of this: we're holding the budget, and either you do what we want or you don't get the money! And I don't want to question the size of the money, but let's see how it is! 2014 to 2020, let's say N+2, so 2022 and maybe 2023, that's nine state budgets. If I round it up, 9 times 1.5, it's approximately 13 beats. CZK of Czech expenditure. And that's going to be 650 billion.? And that's not pure money. Let's get this straight: 650 billion. and 13 beats. And if we're paying about 35 to 40 billion. Every year, so from the 650, subtract some 260. And you're somewhere at 400 billion. Ten years from now. And we're at 40 billion. per year. And we have 1,250 billion. expenditure. And 40 billion. It's about 3.5, maybe 4 percent, I'm sorry, I'm counting it like this in my head, I don't have the number written down. These are things that distract us legislators in the Czech Republic from the important debate. We slip into the details, argue in nonsense directives about the eighth paragraph of the third letter, whether there has to be a word or can, but we forget to go back two or three levels higher and say why we're doing it. Is this an area that needs integration? We need to work this out together, don't we? And that question really doesn't sound 100 percent that we don't need it. But if we are not having a serious debate with each other, then what is the position of the Czech Republic? In what areas do we welcome this? Uniform rules. Which one isn't? And what are we supposed to promote? And what is the Czech Government supposed to promote if they do not know? [[The speaker looks back at the ministerial bench.]] One minister. FOR YES. There's a minister here. And this began with the Prime Minister's words: I am so glad that today we will be debating foreign policy! Where are the other 16 members of the government? Okay, the Secretary of State has an admission, we've excused him, he's told us something. I've quite welcomed the Minister getting off with such a fight and enthusiasm. And now I really don't mean it ironically. Where are the other members of the government? I heard the long list this morning: personal reasons, personal reasons, work reasons. I think such a debate can only excuse a member of the government's foreign trip or long-term negotiations with a foreign partner in the Czech Republic. Those are the reasons everyone understands for which they excuse everyone. I am sure that 16 members of the government are not on a foreign trip at the moment, nor are they going to negotiate with a foreign partner in the afternoon. So what is the priority of Czech foreign policy is only the second question. The first is: is foreign policy a priority for this government? And you all see the answer. Look! This is the priority of foreign policy. One! Even the Minister of Culture isn't here, which he's always here. I sometimes wonder if he knows where the Ministry of Culture is. But that's just to amuse you a little bit so I don't have such a boring performance. [[11.50 hours]] I was talking about the strategic partnership, and I was talking about NATO. And not by chance. This was done by the Czech Republic. It wasn't exactly easy. Remember those debates years ago before joining the North Atlantic Alliance, until we're there. And I want to talk in a minute about how the US elections were interpreted by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic. But he won't give it to me. He was right that many European states, including the Czech Republic, have long failed to fulfil their obligations to NATO. And then those who do so rightly ask, When will you also do so? Or do you want it to be me paying it, I have the costs, and you have the proceeds? This can't be the way a long-term partnership works. That can work in the short term. The economic crisis can be justified. We can't afford it this year, next year, next year. But then we have to go somewhere. And then the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic comes along when we are far from fulfilling our obligations, and it is not only a problem for this government, so that you do not take it as a criticism towards this government, it is a long-term problem for the Czech Republic, and he says: Let us build a European army! No discussion in the Czech Republic. No discussion with the opposition. Well, what will happen to his proposal if your partners find out that there is no consensus in the Czech Republic? I think it's a bad suggestion, pointless. And how are we going to pay for that? Or is it saying to us: will we go up to two percent of the GDP to defend NATO and, in addition, other GDP resources go to the European army, or what do they mean? Who was he debating with? Did you at least discuss it in government clubs? I'm afraid not. I'm almost afraid of the answer, if you've discussed it on your clubs, if it at least has the support of coalition government MPs, this flawed project that distracts our attention and energy from how to secure its responsibilities in NATO. And that's an example of being weak and maybe ridiculous when we push for something that we don't even agree at home that's a good thing. If we make a deal, we push for it, we can fail. That can happen to us. But at least we tried. At least we knew what we wanted. And we were looking for partners. Worst case scenario, we won't find them. But we can confront our project, our view of the views and projects of other allies. We don't do anything like that. The Prime Minister, as he is a master of distraction, spoke instead of foreign policy priorities about failed export bank projects. And he's right. I'm not defending these projects. But every time we look at it in context, the projects he mentioned almost always occurred during the economic crisis. At that time I did not notice justified concerns or concerns of the opposition that this is not good. After all, in some of these cases, renowned Czech companies have a long-term share in the domestic and world market, companies that employ hundreds and thousands of people. They're not cheaters. And when is the export bank used? At a time when normal banking instruments are not enough. So each business is risky. The idea that the state supports risky exports, and he has to, when he wants it, because normal commercial insurance is not possible, the idea that 100 percent will be successful is not real. It's not that we shouldn't be improving in control and stalling too idealistic plans about how I'm gonna make a huge foreign investment and how I'm gonna get tens of billions. But at the same time saying, it's not possible that there's a case... And please, let us distinguish between a failed project, which in a risky area can also happen because of a change in the political situation in the area, and where somebody basically planned fraud. Those are two completely different categories. And the first ones are a lot more than the other ones. The question facing not only the Czech Republic. The Minister of Culture is here. [[Minister Herman just walked into the hall.]] Fine. Then we have three members of the government. [[The Minister of Transport and the Minister of the Environment Brabec are still sitting in the government bench.]] The situation is gradually improving. The question is how will the Czech Republic and Europe as a whole respond to the new US President. It is not true that the European left has not been appalled by the results, as it has been trying to say for the last hours. She's terrified of the results! And the Foreign Minister here spoke, and I agree with him, about Donald Trump's view of how allies carry out their duties in NATO. But what I absolutely have to say is that the Republican Party is a party of losers and losers. That is the condescending attitude of the European left and neomarxists. He criticized Hillary Clinton, but basically, in the context of his other sentences, I realized that she had just misinterpreted it, that it really was the losers who elected the president in America. And it's not. Look at the comments in America. He was chosen by the middle and lower middle class, who did not see the economic benefits of his economic success in the United States. They have seen what is happening in the Czech Republic during this government, that it is helping big and complicated life small. The economy is growing. I think we're all happy. Does everyone benefit from this today? They don't! So let us talk about the benefits of economic growth for all who work honestly because they are voters who, among other things, elected Donald Trump. And it's sometimes smiling as some pass over. He won't let me mention the finance minister who wrote on his own social networks on Tuesday morning: it's not true that I support Trump, I have nothing to do with him to write the next day, congratulations to Trump. He's actually copying ANO. So if I combine those two sentences, Andrej Babiš doesn't support himself. Logically. [[An outrage in the YES benches.]] He doesn't support it, but at the same time he says that Trump does it like he does. I don't think we in opposition believe that he wouldn't support himself and his movement. I really don't. I still want to get back to that, and on purpose, that's the last point of my performance, and the last point of not being like the Prime Minister, where I needed to go to a meeting, he said, I'm gonna tell you the last sentence, and when I came in after 20 minutes, I still talked, I'm gonna try to have that last sentence a little shorter. [[Fun in the hall.]] Declaration four. That was a government conflict. This was not a conflict between the government and the opposition. I think he handled himself completely wrong, humiliated, useless. At the same time, the Prime Minister will come here and tell us with his smile: our foreign policy is transparent and unified. And for three weeks, there's nothing else to worry about here, or many are dealing with nothing but a conflict in a government coalition. So what's it like? How did this conflict arise? Why did this statement come out when everything was clear and everyone in that government is following it yesterday, today and tomorrow? So are the Prime Minister's true words that foreign policy is transparent and uniform? Of course they're not! That's not a rhetorical question. I can answer that, but you can answer that from the government desks. Or do you really think and you're gonna go back to the microphone saying, "No, no, no, it was the opposition's fault. The opposition succeeded in bringing strife into those government benches and directly into the government. It's not worthy of any of us. We're not happy about the situation at all. And if you have noticed, we, as citizens' democrats, have also been quite modest. And we could often use strong words from one side to the other. But would that help Czech foreign policy? It didn't help! I think there are plenty of other areas - tax, red tape, bullying small, social system - in which we will be able to fight at home. But let's try not only between the government and the opposition, but also inside the government to think that let's not bring foreign policy into these domestic fights. But if we don't talk to each other, neither you nor you among yourselves, such situations will occur often. And Prime Minister Fiala said it exactly. That was just the tip of the iceberg. That's not the only case that's happened. He also listed many of the opposing acts of the members of the government. And that weakens us. So, my dear colleagues, behind the ODS, I will repeat the thesis that we will try to get into your heads and especially into practical politics: we will only be as strong abroad as we will be at home united. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-051-01-000-000.u30	Thank you. I beg President Laudát and after him, President Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-051-01-000-000.u31	Thank you. I'll be more brief. I've caught Mr. Zaorálek's fire, so I'm gonna try to calm my passions a little bit and react only to what's been said here. I would still like us to get to the theme of the D8 motorway that goes, but in a slightly different way than the standard drivers imagine. Prime Minister Sobotka here spoke of the fact that in terms of the trade deficit with China, it was not his fault what they inherited. I would just remind you that in 2010 our exports to China were 23.2 billion. and imports were 295,8 billion, i.e., the balance was 272,6 billion. koruna minus. It's roughly a ratio of over 1:10. In the years to come, the 1:10 ratio was maintained. In 2011, it was less than 30 billion. versus the import of 334.5 billion, so the balance increased to 305 billion, but then in 2012 and 2013 the trend started slowly, but the ratio decreased, so the balance then dropped to less than 274 billion. and in 2013 to minus 266 billion. Crowns. But in 2014, it took the opposite direction towards a negative balance of nearly 321 billion. CZK and dramatically it flies up in 2015 up to 421.7 billion. negative balance. It only costs 45,6 billion against this. export, that means we've returned to the 2010 unfavorable trajectory. So that's the real result. The Prime Minister here, in connection with China, has called for the need to keep a cool head. I don't know if anyone was that hot, I'm sure those people who went to express their opinion when they visited the Chinese President, because really if we're gonna be strangers in our own country, I don't know what's worse, we've been an occupied country for 21 years, and what's worse than when red flags are made here. Okay, it's some kind of someone's demand, that's atypical, and I don't think it's exactly suitable for Central Europe, but it's for someone to rip up a flag or a banner, and yet it's people who have been brought here by wannabe tourists, so I think that's a lot behind the line. And, of course, as I have already mentioned, it is very far beyond the line if someone then stands in line and huddles in a way that is perhaps unprecedented in the modern history of the Czech Republic. I would rather tolerate the fact that the Communists bent their backs here after August 1968 because Russian or Soviet weapons were aimed at them, but I refuse to tolerate and I don't know what weapons they're aiming at these gentlemen today, who have been so ensnared and what has helped them to prepare it. In this context, I am sorry, but I cannot literally laugh at the sentence of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who said literally: "The Czech Republic is at the top of China's criticism." So if that's how he imagines the top critic of China, he'll humiliate his own citizens. If it were April 1st, I'd understand, it's April 1st, but today? I don't know. He was talking about slapping him about being slapped from the left from the right. I really need to confirm that. I don't think we're slapping him, but we're criticizing him. I would just recall the era of the reign of Mirek Topolánek, when he slapped in a way that was even stronger than the theatre performance today, and it was only from the left. Coincidentally, it will now be very spicy to watch, perhaps it will catch up with this government, and I will definitely sleep more calmly today after the words of Prime Minister Sobotka, that NATO is actually our key ally, that they have accepted government statements, etc., so I wonder how they will stand up to it if the policy of the new President Trump becomes fulfilled when I return to what his close associate Giuliani said a few hours ago that they intend to renegotiate the negotiations to build a nuclear shield, and mentioned Poland and the Czech Republic in particular. So I'm very curious about comrades from social democracy, how they'll behave, with what responsibility and security they'll be accompanied by the people's people's people's people's and YES, so how it's gonna be. That's why we're confused that at one point he's applying to Trump, he won't report back in a few hours, then when he wins, he'll report back. It's an impressive entrance. We're impressive, so we have 421.7 billion. last year, and I wouldn't be surprised if the negative balance against China will be at that symbolic limit of half a trillion crowns this year. I very much welcomed the fact that the Foreign Minister Zaorálek also received readings of Peroutka, and I hope that he will not only read and lecture here, but according to his true ideas and not to Ovčáčkův's interpretations he will sign up for his political legacy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-051-01-000-000.u32	Thank you and please Mr. Chairman Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-051-01-000-000.u33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I really do not want to prolong this debate, but I have to make a few small remarks about the same metro, or about the Phariseeism that has been coming out of some corners of this honorable institution for a long time, about the humiliation of our nation, our representation, our national sovereignty, which has also been mentioned here recently, and about some other contexts. And believe me, along with the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, I am not some great enthusiastic supporter of foreign policy, as this government is implementing it, as it has it as a concept. But if anyone has really humiliated our state sovereignty lately for, say, such a silent consent, because whoever doesn't protest, agrees, who is silent, then those who today very loudly criticize the humiliation of state sovereignty by a statement in the quotes of a bunch of four, sometimes I have the impression that it is, so it was a member of this government, Minister of Culture Daniel Herman. It was he who, as a member of this government, let the Czech government host himself and performed at the meeting of the Sudeten German Association, i.e. as the Minister of the Sovereign State, made an extra at the meeting of those who are still seeking revision of the results of World War II. And those who criticize constitutional officials today for a statement that, let's say, the concept of foreign policy, our credibility in foreign policy relations, they kept silent at the time. I think there's a huge piece of Phariseery in this. Does such an approach also include the priorities of our foreign policy, while government officials were also silent? With our exception, many opposition leaders who today are fiery criticizing - in a speech by, for example, colleague Fiala or colleague Stanjura - a violation, a humiliation of sovereignty. Is this part of this government's foreign policy priorities? The priorities of foreign policy of the Czech Republic? Doesn't it? [[12.10 hours]] Or let's ask ourselves if it doesn't belong yet, that it's been silent and that things are waiting to turn out. I think these are things that are warning, and if we don't want to be considered a Pharisee, we need to measure all the same subways when something happens. Otherwise, we will humiliate our own sovereignty first of all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-051-01-000-000.u34	Thank you, too. And if there are no further requests for speeches with priority rights, then we will proceed to the vote on the draft agenda of the 51st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as submitted in writing to all of you. There's a check-out request. I'm shutting you all out. A new registration, please. And we'll vote. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees with the proposal for the 51st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Who's against it? It's vote number two. It's registered 119, for 36, against 70. This proposal has not been adopted. I'm done with the 51st meeting. I'll ask you how much time it takes to reconstruct the tech. Five minutes. That means we'll meet at 12.16 when the 52nd meeting starts, and we'll decide on her show. So now I'm declaring a break now until 12.17. [[Attention on time.]] I'm sorry, I've been notified that the invitation is ten minutes after it's over. That means we keep everything we promised, so we'll continue at 12.22 hours.
