ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-008-256.u1	256. Information of the Minister of the Environment on the Government Regulation establishing transport structures which have been exempted from the obligation to obtain a new EIA I therefore ask that the Environment Minister Richard Brabec take the floor - he is already at the rapporteur's table - at the same time I ask that Mr Zbyněk Stanjura become rapporteur... He's not interested. I see interest from my colleague Laudát... Well, whoever comes forward first, Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 Club, will be the rapporteur. That's the custom. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-008-256.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. You may be surprised, I'm not the plaintiff of any of these points, because my proposal was the Information of Prime Minister Sobotka to the state of the Department of Transport and he failed. However, I want to make a procedural proposal at the beginning of this point, because you see that there is a point 256, in short it was there, now it's all there, the whole name, but there was an EIA dash, which if I take it, it could be the dash either, the unitor or the splitter. I'm sure you remember the early '90s, some. I know it's a link, it means "building with the EIA." And then there's a point 258 "building without an EIA." I believe that 258 is a zero set, but that point 256 is a subset of the zero set, so I am giving a procedural proposal to merge the debate on these two points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-008-256.u3	So, of course, I'm going to take this vote, I think it's logical, but I'm going to ask you to be the first to be the rapporteur for these two points. We will be voting now, because there is nothing stopping us from doing so, on the merger of the debate on paragraphs 256 and 258. I have begun voting number 200 and I ask who is in favour of bringing the debate to the two press. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 200, out of 116 present for 98, against no one. And now I will really ask the Minister of the Environment, Richard Brabec, to give information as an authorized member of the government. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-008-256.u4	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when we actually spoke to the promoter of the first paragraph, now merged into one point, with a colleague, Mr President Stanjura, I dare say that the information or the question was about one particular action. But I would still like to repeat very briefly, in fact, how we proceed in all these events, and then I would focus a little more detail on the one special, i.e. Action 1/11 extended by Red. So first, slightly in general. On 24 August this year, the government approved, by its resolution 722, a proposal for a government regulation on the establishment of priority transport projects. These are the nine most necessary and at the same time the most prepared intentions. It is therefore 12 independently prepared buildings in total volume of around 68 billion crowns, which have issued an opinion according to Act No. 244/1992 Coll. and located on the trans-European transport network TEN-T. These selected projects are crucial for the Czech Republic, they are in the most advanced stage of preparation, they are ready for implementation in the construction season, or to start in the construction season 2017, respectively. 2018. In accordance with Section 23a of the amended Act No. 100/2001 Sb. is for projects with an opinion pursuant to Act No. 244/1992 Coll., which also meets other conditions under paragraph 1, can apply for a binding opinion without the need to process the new EIA documentation. First of all, I would like to thank you all once again for the very rapid legislative process, which enabled this necessary amendment to be discussed in a record short time during this summer, and was thus completed by this government regulation, which was approved at the first government meeting after the government holidays. A binding opinion on the effects of a priority transport project on the environment shall be issued at the request of the notifier, the basis of which shall include a description of the current technical solution of the project and its impact on the environment and public health. At present, i.e. in these days, all the necessary documents are being prepared for these selected projects, it will certainly be discussed by colleague Ťok, and thus they are still informally, unofficially discussed at the Ministry of the Environment, so that they are ready to be presented as soon as possible. At the same time, all these buildings are continued in project preparation, including property-legal settlement. So much for these nine projects, and now only briefly for the reason why it came off the list, or why it didn't actually appear on the list in the final form the one originally promised. And I am really saying and confirming the words of President Stanjura that we talked about ten projects, originally mentioned eleven, the eleventh is the Prague Circuit. There is also quite a lot of activity there, I think we can definitely get back to that in the discussion. But why didn't the extended Red show up in the end? The reason for this is that the investor - the Ministry of Transport, the Directorate of Roads and Motorways - has decided to go on this matter, and I'm sure Minister Tók will also comment on this in a different way. In the view of the Ministry of Transport, which was confirmed by the letter I received before I actually put the material into the government, and I received it on 15 July from the Ministry of Transport and I will quote from it: "In addition to the above priority transport projects, construction 1/11 extended by Rudná - the border of the Ostrava district is not included in the original draft regulation, because for part of this construction, where the building permit is not yet issued, a separate notification was prepared according to Annex No. 3, Act No. 100/2001 Sb. and the Regional Authority of the Moravian-Silesian Region initiated the investigation procedure.' [[16.40 hours]] This was the case, or it was submitted on 14 June, and the latest development, which Mr Stanjura also certainly knows, is that on 12 September the Moravian-Silesian Region issued the conclusion of the investigation procedure for this intention, concluding that the completion of the extended Rudná cannot have a significant negative impact on the environment, and therefore there is no need for the process of so-called. Big EIA. I don't want to speculate what might happen next so I don't record to anyone, but I'm just gonna say what would happen if. Since the conclusion of the investigation procedure was published on the Official Board of 12 September, 27 September will be considered to have been delivered by public decree. 12 October is the last day on which an appeal may be lodged against this finding conclusion. And if, on the 13th of October, the law enforcement process comes to an end, then further steps will be taken from the point of view of the Ministry of Transport. If anyone calls back, the Department of the Environment will be in charge of the appeal. It will be the Department of Civil Service 9 in Ostrava. The appeal procedure should take 30 days, tops, if the case turns out to be very complicated, then it's 60 days. But I don't think it's the other case, I think it'll be in 30 days. And if the Ministry of the Environment rejects this appeal through its Department of Public Administration and confirms the conclusion of the investigation procedure, then this conclusion of the investigation procedure will become legal. The assumption is therefore up to the end of November 2016 and ŘSD will be able to arrange further steps in the construction process. If the appeal proceedings of the Ministry of the Environment were contested in court, then the court must rule within 90 days of the filing of the action. And it should also be pointed out here that the action does not have an automatic suspensive effect. The construction procedure will therefore be able to take place in parallel if the court does not actively order the suspensive effect or the interim measure. So that's like an introduction to the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-008-256.u5	Thank you, Minister of the Environment, Richard Brabco. Interrupting item 256. Initiating point
