ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-011-040.u1	40. Government bill amending certain laws in the field of international cooperation in tax administration and repealing Act No. 330/2014 Sb., on the exchange of information on financial accounts with the United States of America for the purposes of tax administration / House printing 651/ - first reading according to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-011-040.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly put forward a proposal to amend the law in the field of international cooperation in tax administration. Both the Czech Republic and the European Union were involved in the international fight against tax evasion, which preceded the proposed bill. In the present case, it is the exchange of information on the financial accounts of residents of foreign states. This exchange is currently taking place with the United States of America under the FATCA Agreement. Based on FATCA agreements, the OECD and the EU were created. global standard. On its basis, the Czech Republic will exchange information with all EU countries and with about 50 countries of the Global Forum for Transparency and Exchange of Information, as well as with countries such as the Czech Republic. Switzerland, Liechtenstein and Monaco, with which the EU has concluded, on behalf of the Member States, agreements implementing a global standard. The exchange of information with all these states will take place in a very similar manner and it is therefore appropriate to amend it in one law. Therefore, the solution was chosen to repeal the special law on the exchange of information with the United States of America and to amend this exchange within the framework of the existing law on international cooperation in tax administration. The proposed law unites to the maximum the obligation of financial institutions associated with the procedures for obtaining and notifying information on their clients' accounts with the obligations they already have under the FATCA agreement. Currently, countries with which information is to be exchanged automatically on the basis of the proposed law adopt similar laws in order to start providing information about Czech tax residents to the Czech Republic. They will be used by the Financial Administration to properly determine their tax obligations. At the same time, in the light of developments in the European Union, the specific rules on the transmission of information under the Income Tax Act and, respectively, the Income Tax Act are being repealed. under the directive on taxation of savings interest income. The exchange of information will be replaced by an exchange according to the global standard. The effectiveness of the law was proposed as of 1 January 2016 and the government submitted to the Chamber of Deputies a draft bill proposing consent to the law at first reading. However, unfortunately, there has been a delay, and the law can no longer take effect on 1 January 2016. The effectiveness must therefore be appropriately adjusted so that the law is valid and effective as soon as possible. I would therefore like to request approval at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-011-040.u3	Thank you, Minister, and I ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Miloslava Vostrá to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-011-040.u4	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, allow me to express my report on this press. I think the Minister has put this press here quite seriously, and I guess it doesn't make sense for me to repeat here what has already been said. However, in order to meet my reporting obligations, I would simply briefly summarize the most important thing from my point of view, or that it is essentially the creation of legislative technical conditions for the Czech Republic to be involved in a broad international automatic exchange of information on tax matters. I think that this is a step in the right direction, although, of course, we can have some questions and some opinions on whether reciprocal is balanced, but nevertheless I believe that this needs to be approved. Approval is proposed at first reading. Since this law has not been vetoed, I would like to enter into a detailed debate in order to record a change in effectiveness. What I am merely stopping at and raising my eyebrows is that the European Union directive is from December 2014, and we have the bill here after 11 months. Maybe that's a little bit for the eyebrow lift. But otherwise, as I say, I recommend to the Chamber of Deputies that this press be approved at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-011-040.u5	Thank you, Madame. Then sign up for a detailed debate when it is open. I am opening up a general debate and asking who is applying for it. As I do not see anyone applying to the general debate, I conclude the general debate and ask whether the appellant or the rapporteur wants to take the final words. It's not like that. We will now decide pursuant to § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of the discussion of this proposal. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees to continue negotiations on Houses of the Press 651 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' [[17.40 hours]] I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the proposal as it was put forward to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 203. 146 Members and Members are registered, for 121, against none. I state that the proposal has been approved, we will continue to do so in accordance with § 90 para. 5. I am therefore opening a detailed debate. I am already registering the rapporteur's application from the previous general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-011-040.u6	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Allow me to propose a correction of effectiveness pursuant to § 90 para. 6, as amended by: Article III - Efficiency. This law shall take effect on the day of its publication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-011-040.u7	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. I don't see anyone. I am ending the debate in detail, and I am asking the appellant or rapporteur whether you want to take the final floor. It's not like that. In that case, we will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution, and before that, I will call my colleagues from the lobby. First of all, I will put to the vote on the amendment of effectiveness as it has been loaded before I vote on the draft law as a whole. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the proposal as presented in the detailed debate, that is, to change efficiency, to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 204. 149 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 138, against none. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been approved. We will now proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending certain laws in the field of international cooperation in tax administration and repealing Act No. 330/2014 Coll., on the exchange of information on financial accounts with the United States of America for tax management purposes, according to the House's Press 651, as amended." I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for a resolution, as it has been tabled, to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 205, 150 Members and Members registered, for proposal 128, against none. I'm stating that the bill has been approved, and I'm done talking. Thank you for your cooperation. I'm done discussing this point, and I'm opening another point, and that's it.
