ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-009-029.u1	29. Government bill amending Act No. 133/2000 Coll., on the registration of residents and birth numbers and on the amendment of certain laws (the Act on the registration of residents), as amended, and other related laws /German press 909/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-009-029.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, let me briefly mention the bill amending the Act on population registration and other related laws. According to the legislation in force, an indication of the place of permanent residence is kept in the population register information system. In the case of citizens who have permanent residence at the registered office of the reporting office or at the address of the special register, the information system shall indicate the address of the reporting office or this special register. However, public authorities authorised to use the address of the place of permanent residence shall not, in such cases, obtain information from the information system as to whether the registered address is the address of the registered office of the reporting office or the registered office of the special register. They will not obtain this information from the basic population register, where this indication is also not given. The aim of the bill is to enable authorised entities to obtain information from the population register information from the information system that the citizen is registered at the address of the reporting office or this special register. The introduction of permanent residence data as the address of the Office will also be regulated in the basic population register and in the information system where foreigners are kept. The designation of permanent residence data as the address of the Office shall be made in accordance with the previous provisions within one year of the declaration of the law for persons who have already permanent residence at the reporting offices. The subject of the amendment is also the scope of the data on the ID card. According to the current legislation, from 1 January 2017, the permanent residence figure indicated in the ID card should be only an optional given data, which is therefore not mandatory and would therefore not be a mandatory part of the information that can be read from the ID card. The proposed bill repeals this amendment. The address of the place of permanent residence should therefore continue to be part of the mandatory data provided in the ID card. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-009-029.u3	Thank you, too, Minister. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Věra Kovářová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-009-029.u4	Dear colleagues, the Government has submitted to the Chamber of Deputies a bill amending Act No.133/2000 Coll., on the registration of residents and birth numbers and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended. We're discussing it as a printing 909. The draft law is accompanied by the Government's proposal for its approval at first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The main purpose of the bill presented is to introduce in the population register the address of the permanent residence office at the address of the reporting office. According to the legislation in force, an indication of the permanent residence of the citizen is kept in the population register information system. In the case of citizens who have a permanent residence at the address of the reporting office, this address is kept in the information system as an indication of the permanent residence. At present, it is not possible to recognise from the permanent residence data that this is the address of the reporting office. This cannot be found from the basic population register, where the address of the reporting centre is also not differentiated. The aim of this proposal is to enable the authorities, as has already been said, to obtain information from the population register information that the citizen is registered at the address of the reporting office. It is proposed that the address of the Office be provided for these addresses. The same would apply to the register at the address of the so-called special register. The introduction of permanent residence data as the address of the Office will also be regulated in the composition of the basic population register and in the information system of foreigners. It is also proposed that the designation of the address of the Office be included in the civil documents. Part of the proposal is also an important change, when in parts 7 and 8 it is proposed to abolish an earlier, already valid, but still ineffective amendment to the Civil Card Act. This amendment was intended to introduce optional indication of permanent residence on civil documents. It should be effective from 1 January 2017. According to the petitioner, the limitation of the scope of mandatory data on civil documents is undesirable. For example, according to the Administrative Rules, a natural person shall be identified by name, surname, date of birth and address of permanent residence. That combination of data shall be considered as a minimum for unambiguous identification. It is appropriate that this basic set of data also forms the basis for the information seen from the civil certificates. At the same time, this will also allow the distinction between the so-called address of the Office. To ensure that the permanent residence information remains mandatory in the contents of the ID card, it means that the amendment to the Civil Card Act effective from 1 January 2017 should be repealed in a timely manner. For this reason, the bill submitted must be declared in the Collection of Laws by the end of 2016. Therefore, the petitioner also proposes the approval of the law at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-009-029.u5	Thank you, too. I am opening a general debate and registering one application. Please, Mr. Klán.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-009-029.u6	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, Mr. Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen. I've listened carefully to what the law is, I've read it carefully myself, and I have to wait here a little bit. It's been a year since we discussed the Civil Card Act. I asked the Minister here a year ago about the permanent residence, whether he would disappear from his ID or stay there. At the time it was said that it would stay as it should be, as it runs, that means it should be from 1. 1. 2017 in the citizen is required to be an optional data, so it could disappear. All of a sudden, the D.O.D. came up saying he had to stay there. I have to ask why I'm so late. Then we're approving it again in the '90s, when we could have done it completely in peace six months ago, or six months ago, when I was pointing at it here. That could have all been settled. [[16.20 hours]] I understand that if the figure became compulsory optional, the citizen would have to go to CzechPoint for example and take out a certificate where he is actually a permanent resident, so I understand that it would be better if the figure remained as an identifier on the citizen as well as from various commercial legal matters. However, there is another thing that from 1. 1. 2020 is to disappear from the ID card birth number, respectively. is also required to be an optional figure, if I am not mistaken. Well, that's in the law that was passed here during the previous government, as Minister John, if I'm not mistaken, that's where we went this way. This means, at first, the compulsory optional data became a family condition, that it may or may not be mentioned there, then it was clearly stated that it would be a permanent residence, that it would also be a compulsory optional data, and ended with the birth number being replaced by some meaningless identifier, some mix of numbers and, for example, letters in 2020. So my question is whether the birth number from 2020 will really be an optional figure. At that time, the Ministry claimed to us that at that time or around that year, all possible combinations of native numbers would be exhausted, so it would have to go there to some meaningless identifier. So that's my question, is it going to be a mandatory optional figure from 2020. So that it doesn't happen again that maybe the next House here will have to deal with this and we'll go another way. It makes it quite difficult for me to do so, especially when we see, at the second point, that we will introduce electronic ID cards, where we will go a little different by protecting personal identity, not by disappearing this data from IDs with machine-readable data. We'll talk about that at the second point. Anyway, I'm not blocking the 90th, of course. I'll let it go. I will, of course, support the whole. But in order not to just criticize here, what I like about this law is a rather sophisticated impact analysis. That's what I think it should look like in all the laws. The same is going to be true of the IDs, where I'm going to follow up on this problem that I mentioned here. So, as I was saying, I wonder if the birth number will be a mandatory optional figure from 2020, respectively. whether it will actually be replaced by a meaningless identifier. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-009-029.u7	Thank you, too. I'm making one point of fact. [[This is not a factual point.]] In that case, you're still in line, Mr. Ambassador, there's no one else logged in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-009-029.u8	Thank you for the floor. I want to say to this bill that we are not going to block the 90s by gnashing our teeth, but a few notes are certainly worthy of the law. What my previous speaker said here is undoubtedly true, but as far as I can remember, we've just gone far faster in the past in the area of public administration electronization than in the last few months and the last few years. We've just been to work to visit e.g. Estonia, where they have the electronisation of public administration from the point of view of a citizen and from the point of view of service to citizens at a very high level, and one would not expect what country we have to learn, what to learn, or even not to invent imaginary things and take over some things that, from the point of view of service, would certainly serve the citizen well. This brake we're pulling now is the brake we need. I think it wouldn't be right if there wasn't a permanent residence on the ID card at the moment, but in the future, I'm convinced that it's supposed to be part of some kind of electronic lock, whether inside an I.D. In short, the office knows. If I have any identifier, whether we call it in the future, whether or not the identity card or it will be an identification number - I am referring to my colleague Klánek, because if I remember correctly, then the debate on whether or not the birth number should be there, whether or not it should be another identifier from which it should not be seen when who was born and the like, to which I am leaning, the state has the information and there is no need for everyone to be able to know who was born from the birth number. In this respect, if I remember correctly, it was the main intention, because the state, as I say, has the information and it is unnecessary for us to endlessly, or for citizens to go to the state repeatedly to say the same information that, after all, individual institutions already have. But we know from practice the fact that we walk around the offices and that one state office wants information from another state office, but it's to be arranged by a citizen, not by the state itself. On this occasion, I also want to say that although this is a simple law, it is actually a sort of bureaucratic law that does not affect too many citizens, so it affects the functioning of self-government. And I want to point out - and those of you who work in municipal councils and cities, you well know that a huge problem is starting to accumulate around the citizens who are registered at the relevant municipal authorities, and that this is becoming a big problem, because there is a nerudic question where to go with it. These people often end up living almost irreversibly, there is no going back, ends up in municipal and urban offices, and we should be talking about what to do with the situation. Whether it's an irreversible process or if we can somehow help the authorities deal with the situation. I think it would deserve a debate - the Committee on Public Administration, the Ministry of the Interior, or the representatives of the Union of Towns and Municipalities - to try to lighten up some of the situations that municipalities have to deal with today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-009-029.u9	I also thank you and ask if anyone else is joining the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-009-029.u10	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I won't keep you too long. I have to report a certain conflict of interest because I have spent almost 17 years feeding on this material, the population's records and the issue of the registers and the functioning of these institutes. I think the law is spilling a little bit with the bathtub and the baby, because most of the authorities - after all, my previous speakers confirmed here, and I want to join it - were expecting something completely different from the Ministry of the Interior, waiting for solutions to the problems that are bothering the authorities. And instead, it's basically just technical so-called. a novel that doesn't make these governments any easier, but it doesn't make them any easier. I know that the law is not vetoed in the '90s, that it is likely to pass through the Chamber of Deputies in some way, but I would like to report here that the problem is highly up-to-date, and the state on the authorities' notice boards, especially those small municipalities or medium-sized municipalities, is significantly unsustainable from the point of view of the concept of today's population record.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-009-029.u11	Thank you. Mr Adamec is making a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-009-029.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I've only been very brief. We agreed not to block the '90s, because the amendment in this case is quite clear, but we still have problems. I'm more interested in how it's going to be in the next time, because really, city officials, applying for offices, they're really big problems. The permanent residence institute is a big problem at the moment. And I would like to know some time horizon - because we cannot do this here in plenary, in committees, or as parliamentary initiatives. I wonder if the Ministry will give us any light at the end of the tunnel, when that will happen, because it really is a problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-009-029.u13	Thank you, too. I wonder if anyone else is joining the general debate. I see no one, in which case I conclude the general debate and ask the appellant and the rapporteur if you want to have the final word. The Minister wants to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-009-029.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, by your means to colleagues who have asked about the birth numbers. Furthermore, the vision that after 2020 the birth number will be replaced by another identifier from which neither sex nor the date of birth of the person concerned will be possible. That means this goes on. As far as the announcements are concerned, we are currently working on a more extensive analysis. We want to involve the Union of Towns and Municipalities and other entities in this to try to find a functional solution. That the problem is, it is evident from the number of people who are registered in individual municipalities. Today, I spoke with the mayor of a medium-sized city where 800 people are registered at the city office. That means we see it as a problem. And also, of course, the problem today, how to try to get the village into the register of foreigners, because I also see it as a big problem especially in relation for example. waste payments, etc. etc. This means that we are dealing with this issue. I hope that within about two months I will be able to give the Chamber of Deputies some comprehensive insight into the time frame in which we can deal with this in steps.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-009-029.u15	Thank you. One more final word from the rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-009-029.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, let me sum up the debate. Mr Klán said that a year ago he had already pointed out the issue of this amendment to the Minister. However, he commended the excellent impact analysis in the explanatory memorandum. Mr Bendl and also Mr Grospič and Mr Adamec were looking at the issue of announcements and registrations at offices. And Mr Bendl suggested that this issue with the Ministry of the Interior be dealt with within the Committee on Public Administration. It was also said that no club would veto the 90th. And I, as rapporteur, recommend that the amendment be approved at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-009-029.u17	Thank you. In the absence of an objection, we will now decide pursuant to Article 90 (2) of the basic Regulation. 5 on the continuation of this proposal. I shall make a motion for a resolution. Before that, I'll check you out and ask you to sign up with your cards again. The motion for a resolution is: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on the Houses of the Press 909 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 89. 138 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 125, against 3. The proposal has been approved. I am initiating a detailed debate and asking who is applying for it. I am not registering anyone, in which case I am ending the detailed debate. I ask the appellant, the rapporteur, if you want the final word. It's not like that. We will now proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 133/2000 Coll., on the registration of residents and birth numbers and on the amendment of certain laws, so called. Act on the registration of residents, as amended, and other related laws, according to the House press 909.' I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for a resolution, as read, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It's a 90-order vote. 140 Members and Members are registered. For proposal 134, against no one. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I'm done discussing this point. Let me make one more apology. Today from 14:30 to 18:00, the Minister of Environment Richard Brabec apologizes, not Jiří Holík, whom I originally read. I'm opening the next item, and that's it.
