ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-007-006.u1	6. Government bill amending Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended /House print 612/ - second reading The Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš will also present this proposal under the authority of the Government. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-007-006.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly mention the draft law amending Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended. The draft law is a response in particular to the requirements arising from the need to fulfil the content of the relevant items of the Government's declaration and the coalition contract and the mandatory implementation of amendments to the Income Tax Directives of the Council of the European Union by 31 December 2015 at the latest. In accordance with the Government's programming declaration, a further increase in the tax advantage on dependent children is proposed for 2016. The second child from the current CZK 15 804 per year at CZK 17 004 per year and the third and each other from the existing CZK 17 004 per year at CZK 20 604 per year. This is already the second parametric increase in the tax advantage on the child. In the context of the implementation of the amendment to Council Directive 2011/96/EU on a common system of taxation for parent and subsidiary companies from different Member States, it is explicitly established that the parent company cannot apply the exemption of the shares received in profit if the subsidiary can reduce its taxable amount. The reason for this adjustment is that some Member States allow, within the framework of their national tax legislation, to apply the profit shares paid as an item that reduces the tax base, which would lead to the so-called application of the directive. double non-taxation. Other partial proposed amendments aim to eliminate the lack of income tax legislation that has been demonstrated by application practice or in connection with the adoption of another legislation. For example, this is the case. on changes in the taxation of electricity production income for small sources not subject to business activity and whose performance is limited in terms of impact on the distribution system and serves mainly for own consumption, and the taxation of profit shares paid to non-members of a trading corporation. This bill was discussed at first reading on 5 November 2015 and ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets. The Committee on Budgets discussed the draft amendment to the Income Tax Act on 18 November 2015 and, in its resolution, recommends that the Chamber of Deputies approve this bill as amended by the amendments made in this resolution. I agree with these amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-007-006.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee of guarantee and the resolution of this committee was delivered to you as House prints 612/1 and 612/2. I ask now that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Karel Rais, should take the floor, inform us of the discussion of this proposal in committee. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-007-006.u4	Thank you. Good evening. At the meeting on 18 November, we approved the resolution of the budget committee from the 32nd meeting on the Government Bill amending Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, House Press 612, second reading. Following the opening words of Deputy Minister of Finance Hornochová and the report by Mr Rais and following the debate, the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies recommends, first, to Parliament's Chamber of Deputies, that the Government's bill amending Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, House Press 612, approved the amendments - which are part of the written resolution of the Committee on Budgets and are in the system, so I will not read them. Secondly, it empowers the rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-007-006.u5	I thank the rapporteur for his report. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Petr Fiala, President of the Civic Democratic Party, entered first and foremost. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-007-006.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Civil Democratic Party has tabled two amendments to this bill. At this point, I will justify the first of the proposals concerning the abolition of the so-called solidarity premium and the re-establishing of a simple equal income tax on individuals. Let me just remind you what most of you know. The reason for the solidarity increase in personal income tax of 7 per cent of the excess income was the effort to reduce the general government deficit below 3% of GDP, and it was also an effort during the economic crisis to spread the effects of austerity on all population groups, so that even higher income groups would be solidarity at a time when pension growth was reduced, when civil servants' wages were reduced. However, the solidarity contribution was approved by the government of Petr Nečas as a temporary three-year measure and was last due from revenue in 2015. However, the current coalition government abolished this temporaryity and thus converted the solidarity premium into a second income tax rate. To this end, it should be added that this has effectively increased taxes compared to approved legislation. While they are trying to tell people that the previous governments were doing this, the tax has been de facto increased by extending and changing the temporaryity of the solidarity premium. If the current government hadn't intervened, taxes would have been lower and, above all, easier. The government has not only increased taxes and complicated the tax system, but shows that it is inconsistent in fundamental matters because it effectively violates its coalition contract of December 2013, which states, among other things, that the government will abolish the concept of supergross wages and a solidarity premium by introducing a second rate of personal income tax, and that tax rate should have been fixed in such a way that the budgetary impact of the abolition of the supergross wage and the solidarity premium is neutral. In this case, therefore, there would be no increase in the tax burden on people. But we are facing a different situation that the increase has actually occurred. The citizens' Democratic Party is therefore proposing an amendment abolishing this solidarity premium. If our proposal passes, we will actually return to an equal income tax rate, which will, of course, mean simplifying the tax system and, among other things, tax savings. There are also government parties who claim themselves to want to reduce taxes, claiming economic liberalism in some matters. Now they have a chance to prove it and support our proposal to cancel the solidarity contribution, because there are many good reasons for this. Not only what the government has committed itself to, but above all, we have a completely different economic situation and there is no reason why the solidarity premium should take. When we look at the profits that are meant to be made, this solidarity contribution will make about 5 billion a year. Crowns. For example, if you remember the savings that we proposed in the budget, the Civil Democratic Party, we found possible savings of 30 billion there. crowns, so find 5 billion. Of course, there could be no problem in the budget. It would have a positive impact on 50,000 people, but above all, it would have a positive impact on our tax system, which would be made clear and simplified. I think every way we can simplify and clarify our tax system, we have to make use of it. Moreover, economic theory, but above all economic practice, teaches us that if taxes are simple, people pay them and they don't pay them to bypass them. I'd like to remind you of one more argument. According to the World Bank report in the Czech Republic, a medium-sized company spends about 413 hours over taxes, it is better than 430, but unfortunately it is the second highest value, I think, after Bulgaria. If you look at the neighbouring Slovakia, it spends half the less, about 207 hours there. That, too, is why we look for all the solutions that simplify the tax system. The coalition government, specifically the Ministry of Finance of Minister Babiš, is pretending that taxes are at the heart of his agenda, but when you look at what the Ministry is doing, it is obvious that it is devoted only to a kind of repression of taxes, which is an electronic record of sales, control reports, but there is no room or time left for any positive incentive here for regulation and preventive spying on people. Although the government has undertaken to address the solidarity premium in some complex change, it has not prepared any comprehensive change. That is why we have decided to come up with this proposal in the context of this item. I think that the proposal to abolish the solidarity levy on income tax is a simple and concrete step towards simplifying the tax system, and hence for better tax collection, by way of a completely different path from the government, without restricting personal freedom, freedom of business, burdening the state budget. It's just a precaution that everyone gets an advantage from. In this House, there are a number of Members and Members who publicly, privately and otherwise declare themselves right-wing, including in the ranks of government Members. I think they have the opportunity here to confirm this in a particular step and support the proposal of the Civic Democratic Party to abolish the solidarity premium, for which, as I have justified here, there are no economic or other reasons.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-007-006.u7	I thank Mr Petr Fial. Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-007-006.u8	Thank you for the floor. I would like to present to you the second amendment tabled by our political party in this press, and that is the refund of the discount on the wife and children for businessmen who use flats. We have recently seen many ideas by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, who wants to penalize childless couples by increasing their social security payments. We think that if the state wants to appreciate traditional families, it's good, but for that there are better forms, and that is a form of tax discounts. That is why we are ready to support this bill, which increases discounts on second, third and other children, and we have declared at first reading that we will be voting with the government. We want to think together with you about whether it is right to distinguish whether a person is an employee or a businessman with flat-rates or a businessman without flat-rates when we give a tax discount on a wife and children. We don't think it's good to offer it to everyone. I would like to refute such a general mistake, or not disprove it, I think I disagree with the interpretation that flat rates are for someone to save taxes. The flat rates are to save paperwork and bureaucracy. Ask the owners of all legal entities, all companies, if they were offered to have flat rates, for example in 30% or even in 80 percent, whether they would use it, and they would always be happy that the tax base is 80 percent of their income. That's what we'd collect on corporate tax! That would be the amount! Look at it with huge companies - and now I'm not really aiming at some companies. We will take it from the most successful companies such as ČEZ, Škoda Auto and similar to what taxes would look like if they were using flat rates and the tax base would be 20 percent of their sales. I think the budget would be good. It's not true the widespread view that flat rates are meant to give people low taxes. [[18.40 hours]] Moreover, this government has reduced the use of flat rates. Today, who wants to take advantage of the flat rate, regardless of which group of businesses it belongs to, is limited by the income of two million crowns a year. And let's count: two million crowns a year, when we say the highest, 80 percent flat rate, so how much do you have to tax? If I count well, it's 400 grand. to taxation. Do you think such a person does not deserve a discount on his wife and children? How many employees have 400 thousand. Rude? It's not that much if you count what a month's salary is. Without a doubt, there are many such people in the government. And I don't envy them the money. I'm just saying it would be good for everyone to get a discount on their wife. Because someone can do business for a while, then they can get busy again or vice versa. You know, in that law, to be precise, there's 50 per cent of the tax base applied flat-rate, because one of the employees has a business license, there's two different revenues that tax differently, so if it exceeds 50 per cent, it can't benefit from a discount on the wife, children. The proposal is quite simple, it cancels the paragraph that makes it impossible, and I believe we can get support for it. And to help one of the government's parties a little bit, I noticed that sometime in the depths of last year's KDU, the resolution of their party convention to promote this change. It's not something that colleagues have to do with it. Today, the press asked me what I'm saying that KDU wants to bring it to the Coalition Council. I say we're faster. The Coalition Council certainly cannot approve such a change and the Chamber of Deputies can. So take it we worked for KDU colleagues. It is unusual for you to meet the conclusions of another political party's party convention, but I believe that they will not be the only ones from government parties who will support our proposal when we vote on it at third reading. In a detailed debate, I will then formally sign up for the number of the amendment. I will now just hand over, as I have, to the rapporteur, two pairs of the amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-007-006.u9	I thank Mr Stanjur. I note that I have no further application for the general debate. I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the scene. This is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Minister, yes. Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš, final word after a general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-007-006.u10	Thank you for the floor. I couldn't really talk like that. I can never really learn that. I don't know if Mr. Nečas was on which side? Wasn't he from ODS? You're actually suggesting what you've canceled! I mean, you guys canceled the discount you're proposing on Nečasův 1, 2013. You designed it. You've raised the tax, you've raised the tax, and now you come up with the fact that you're going to pay it back. That's amazing! And the same is true of the solidarity markup. A solidary premium - it had to be invented by a brilliant marketer, because you raised the tax and said to people: Now be solidarity, we will increase your tax, and that is a solidarity premium. So you're just fooling around and basically what you've raised, so now you're coming and going to save. You're giving it back. And if anyone looks at the ODS program, it's a rule. You make promises, then you're in government, and it's the other way around. So it's cool. So I'm sure it's a good idea, I guess. But it's a tiny part of the EET. So try to suggest something even in revenue. You've never done anything to collect taxes. Never! We've reduced taxes. Last year we reduced taxes for pensioners, working parents, VAT, kindergarten fees lost 23 billion, 22.4. And we still picked 72 billion. more to public budgets. So we would have chosen over 90 billion. So we lower taxes and collect taxes. And what do you suggest? You're actually what you raised taxes, so now you're pretending to give it to people. So it's just, like, bullshitting the public and the entrepreneurs again, and it would be good for everyone to study it the way it was. The Nečasův government has abolished the things you're proposing to come back.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-007-006.u11	The rapporteur with the final word. If not, then with priority rights, because we are outside the debate, I have closed the debate, so only with priority rights the President of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura and then Deputy President Mr Kučera. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-007-006.u12	I'm not gonna vote for such expressive verbs and try to be factual. President Petr Fiala has made it clear here that the solidarity premium has been passed by Nečasův' government. That's what he said on the microphone. He's not hiding anything. He also said what the situation was. Today we can wonder whether it was right or wrong, and we can have a debate and you can criticize us for it, that's perfectly legitimate. But at the same time, he said, and you can't deny that, and then I'll ask the rapporteur to confirm that if this government hadn't done anything about the solidarity mark, it wouldn't be today. Because we designed it for three years and it ended on December 31, 2015, which is 19 days ago. You are actively knowingly making your decision to apply to this, as the Minister of Finance says, to bad politics, but you are consciously continuing it. But why not? I'm just always saying you have to choose. Was it wrong for us to introduce it? And I accept criticism, yes. And if you keep doing that, that's good. Isn't there a logical problem? I do. And at this point, we're saying, we've been doing it, three years have passed, you want to keep doing it, we're proposing to cancel. I'm not resisting the responsibility, and I say, it was quite correct in the reasoning. Same with a discount for wives and children. However, it must be said that you have limited the amount of two million and the craft trades and we have not. So the terms have changed. Now let's talk about who raised the taxes and who didn't. I don't want to have this debate, but if you say: we are our interventions - and I have to say that we voted for some of them too, we have to honestly say - they lost 22 billion, I have no reason not to trust the Minister of Finance, I didn't count it now, so it's a good thing if we're 22 billion. they left the taxpayers behind. We're not criticizing your government for that. We criticised you for knowingly abolishing the tax reduction from the dependent activity that was due from 1 January 2015 because the replacement of the gross wage for super gross was not fiscally neutral, and I agree that when it is budgetaryly neutral, it makes no sense to do so. But it was budgetaryly positive for taxpayers and budgetaryly negative for the state and public budgets. About 20 billion. So if we sum it up, you're 22 billion, now I don't know if the minister meant a number just for the state budget, or for the public budgets, so I'm sorry, the 20 billion. Changes in supergross on gross at a rate of 19 per cent of gross wages had an impact of 20 billion. to all public budgets. Which is roughly 14 billion. for the state budget and the six billion. for budgets of regions, cities and municipalities. But you canceled. So you left 22 billion. taxpayers - either just the state, then it's an even higher number if we add to the shared taxes of the regions and municipalities, but I really didn't recognize that - but you took 20 of them. So the sum isn't that complete. But it's a plus, and for that, the government deserves credit when it's a plus. But with the solidarity application, it's 5 billion. The year that President Fiala spoke of, and you want to collect it for 2016. And that is no longer the decision of Nečasův' government and the last House. That is the decision of Sobotkův's government and this government majority. So if you don't support this proposal, we're going to vote on it at third reading, not today, so you're going to raise taxes by 5 billion.! You've already raised them! This is a chance that this never really applies, because it's not supposed to be until the 2016 tax period. If you refuse, you have a plus minus plus 5 billion. tax increases. But in the logic of the Minister of Finance, when someone else does it, it's wrong. And when I do it, I have to do it, and it's basically good. And that's all I had to say about it. We do not waive this responsibility, and it was also mentioned in our speeches when we tabled these amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-007-006.u13	Mr Michal Kučera also with priority rights outside the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-007-006.u14	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to call on the Minister of Finance to actually respond to the debate differently from my speech in the final word. It is very unfair to the other Members. Moreover, as is his custom, in that final word, he attacks all the parties who are in opposition, at least the TOP 09 and the ODS, accusing them of what they did wrong, and, of course, of his style, which he has read some of the marketing lessons. I would really like to respond in a matter of fact to the speech of Minister Babiš, I did not find many things there. I'm bohužel so. Minister Babiš here asked a question which marketer advised you to do so. So I would like to assure Minister Babiš that we are not advised by marketers in matters of budgetary law, unlike you, Minister Babiš. You're advised by marketers, you're advised by opinion polls. That's what you're acting like. We decide on the basis of expert opinions. It has already been said that the two measures were at a time of deep economic crisis. It was temporary and should have been automatically terminated after three years. You, Minister Babiš, canceled the temporary. You've canceled the temporary, and that, Minister Babiš, has increased your taxes. That, Minister Babiš, has increased your taxes. I really don't want to comment on your genius moves, which they probably advise you to make financial decisions. I would probably just remind you of one, and that's the introduction of the third VAT rate, when you were standing here banging on this counter, how it's necessary to introduce the third VAT rate, how we're going to discount the drugs, how our diapers are going to get cheaper, I suspect. How to make drugs cheaper, how to make drugs cheaper for end users thanks to the introduction of the third VAT rate. How did the diapers get cheaper? Let's ask the parents. I don't think so, we all know that. This is your professional measure, a professional solution that you've probably been advised by a marketer, as you say. I, of course, have not been very relevant in this speech by Minister Babiš, but I will not really respond to it any further. I will only repeat my call for him to keep his speeches for a proper general debate so that my colleagues who do not have the right to do so can also respond. I would just like to underline that this measure, Minister Babiš, increases taxes on Czech citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-007-006.u15	So, of course, I cannot react unless I open up a detailed debate where everyone can talk, and I repeat that the Rules of Procedure know exactly the final words of the petitioner and rapporteur, so it is difficult to blame anyone for using their final word. So much... I have no written application for a detailed debate, but I have registered the application in Mr Petr Fiala's general debate, so you have the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-007-006.u16	Thank you. I am signing up for House document 3524, which is an amendment to abolish the solidarity tax increase that I justified in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-007-006.u17	Thank you. Who else in detail? Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-007-006.u18	I formally sign up for the amendment, which is conducted in the system under House document 3542, which is the refund of the discount on the wife and children, as well as on tradesmen who have more than 50 per cent of the tax base from the flat-rate. I also said the reasons in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-007-006.u19	Thank you. Who else in the detailed debate? If I don't see anyone, I am ending the debate in detail. During the detailed debate, no motion for a vote was tabled, Mr rapporteur, who would be voted at second reading. So I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Okay. Thank you. In that case, I'm finishing second reading of 612 printing. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. According to the approved agenda, we will continue with the next item and that is
