ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u1	10. Government bill amending Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on assistance in material distress, as amended /house print 783/ - second reading Madam Secretary is in position. I will ask the committee rapporteur Mrs Pavlína Nytrová... [[Mr Pastuchová is sitting at the rapporteur's table.]] So, Mrs. Pastuchová. Since we are at second reading, we do not need to vote on changing the rapporteur, it is a matter for the committee. I note that we have agreed to a proposal to repeat the second reading of this bill. This is the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies 1395 of 21. 10th this year at the 50th meeting. I'm asking the secretary if he's interested in speaking at the beginning of this repeated second reading. He's interested. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Members, I would like to remind you that this law was quite unexpectedly returned to second reading, essentially with the possibility of a new amendment, some genius solution that we have not yet come up with in the standard legislative process. I think I've already justified everything enough in the course of the legislative process. And just at this point, as far as I know, I have not noticed any new amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u3	Thank you, Minister. And I ask the rapporteur, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, if she is interested in informing us of the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u4	I would just like to say that this law has really been returned to second reading, and the Committee on Social Policy, in agreement with the committee's leadership, has not again sat down on this law, because another amendment has not been tabled, and therefore there is no reason to renegotiate it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Vilímec is signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u6	Mr Vice-President, I have put a new amendment into the system today, which I do not know is genius, I cannot judge, but it is a new solution to a problem that is not trivial. It is a question of abuse mainly of the housing supplement, which leads to a business with poverty. It is indeed a very serious matter. We all know that, mayors, local politicians, but, of course, labour authorities and the ministry. This problem significantly reduces citizens' confidence in the state, in compliance with state-set rules. [[17.20 hours]] You see, in September I was invited by Mr. Mayor of a small village of Semeněvice in Horšovskotýn, it is in the Pilsen Region, in the Domažlický district, at a meeting where he handed me a petition, which is now being discussed by the petition committee, to an unbearable state that has been in existence for a long time in this village. History somehow took place, residential houses that originally belonged to the state farm were bought out by owners who had no relationship with the municipality at all and were leased to people who, in fact, were applying exclusively for benefits of material emergency as a housing supplement. In the present case, it is not even so called. The substandard housing, the rental housing, but they're actually flats designed for permanent housing. This has resulted in an excessive concentration of socially undesirable phenomena in a specific location, and the municipality, including the mayor, does not know how to deal with the situation at all. And it is difficult to advise him in any way within the framework of existing legislation. Yes, in the past these residential houses were offered to transfer the village, sometime in the 1990s. The village did not seek them, but it is hard to blame anyone today, and it is hard to punish the community for not seeking any leadership 20 years ago. By solving similar situations, because it is not the only case, it is not that municipalities will buy out all housing houses in risky locations, they also do not have money for it or individual apartments. That really doesn't work out well enough. The solution must be found elsewhere. And the state must ensure that the construction of the payment of benefits in material distress, especially the housing supplement, prevents the emergence of sites with excessive concentration of socially inadaptable phenomena and does not actually help the emergence of these sites. According to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and, above all, the Ministry of the Interior, the existing legal system, the existing legislation that arose here from the Chamber of Deputies, is not in accordance with the Constitution. I don't know yet that there's a Constitutional Court judicate. I know that some mayors are turning to the courts in this matter. And that is why, in the previous second reading, in the first second reading, I also presented a more comprehensive proposal that would at least give municipalities legal instruments in their own capacity to prevent such a situation completely or at least not to escalate it further. This proposal, I believe, certainly was not contrary to the Constitution. I confess that I was also not entirely satisfied with the effectiveness of the proposal I made then, because it might in principle improve the situation, but it would not solve the situation in Semenevice, for example. Therefore, also in cooperation, I must say, with the Union of Towns and Municipalities I have prepared, or thus amended the original concept, which was based specifically on the possibility of giving an opinion to the Regional Branch of the Labour Office, an opinion on locations where there is an excessive concentration of these socially undesirable phenomena, so that there are no further payments for housing payments. Changes in the sense that I now propose that the delegated municipal authorities, that is to say, in the delegated scope, not in the separate scope, be authorised to issue measures of a general nature declaring an area with an increased incidence of socially undesirable phenomena. The measure would be granted on the basis of a request from the municipality concerned in its own competence but would be subject to a delegated procedure. In fact, it would be discussed in administrative proceedings with the public authorities concerned. In the event of compliance with this request, a measure of a general nature and a supplement to housing for new applicants would then be issued, as the elders cannot be dealt with, would simply not be re-established. I believe that this regulation also complies with constitutional rules, but because it is not an idea in some kind of fantasy, but it has indeed been quite discussed in detail. The other points contained in my amendment at the time remain the same. These are also similar points as Mrs Pastuchová did. This is therefore an annulment of the so-called cancellation. the incentive plans, as well as the shortening of the legitimisation period for the effectiveness of the reduction of the maximum possible deductible threshold of the justifications for housing costs for the so-called Substandard housing forms of 10 per cent per six months, as in the case of other provisions submitted by the amendment to this Act. When we discussed on the Social Committee chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs within the state budget, my question was that it was expected for next year's housing fee - I hope I heard correctly - totalling CZK 6.9 billion. Seven billion crowns! At least that's how the Deputy Minister of Economic Affairs answered, whose expert erudition I have no doubt. Maybe I didn't hear it, but the amount just surprised me a lot and scared me a lot. Whether it's seven or five or six, I don't know, it's obvious that we need to set up an effective instrument to reduce the overall financial impact of the housing supplement and address the current situation mainly in cooperation with the municipalities. Their citizens - in those Semenevice I could see it - bear significant costs, especially in terms of the fundamental reduction in the comfort of their housing, the reduction of living conditions that reign in the village. No wonder it wasn't just the mayor at the meeting, but slowly one whole part of the community. No wonder it makes the state feel unable to enforce the set rules and create major conflicts that lead to distrust of the state, but also public administration in general. Legislation from the Union of Cities and Municipalities of the Czech Republic was also involved in the preparation - I mentioned this already - of the amendment. I also sent it to the legislative department of the House, not to look at the technical nature, but to agree that it is legally done in the right way. I believe that this is the case, or at least I have received a report that there are no objections in legislative terms. I believe that both the Minister and, of course, Members and Members will seriously study the amendment and that you will at least think about it and try to support it. The government's proposal, regardless - I do not want to develop any debate here that we had in the first second reading - does not offer effective instruments of today's and many critical places. I'm absolutely convinced of that. Instead, the government proposal excludes the municipalities from the decision-making process in a separate capacity, i.e. the mayors who know the local conditions and have to solve the problems themselves. So I believe that this is a proposal that, at the very least, is for discussion, for serious discussion. I dare not say that this is some kind of genius recipe, because the problem is very serious and not easy to solve, but it is an effort, both in a more effective way than the government suggests or proposes by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, these problems, which are not trivial, are serious, how to solve these problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u7	I thank Mr Vilímc. Now, Mr Karel Fiedler in the general debate. Mr. Miroslav Opálka will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u8	Good evening. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have also performed at this point in the third reading, where this point has been returned. After that, I tried to devote myself to the problem. I made a round table with representatives of the Ministry of Justice and Labour and Social Affairs after they also came, and the Ministry of Regional Development. The issue is not quite simple, but at least partly, in my opinion, it can be addressed at the moment. The basic problem of abuse there is that those apartments that are rented to the socially weak, to them the citizens who live in them, collect housing contributions or housing supplements, but not in all cases, but often it happens that they do not end up with the contributions and payments where they have them, but in the hands of speculators who are the owners of the apartments. So what happens is that the state represented by the Labour Office - I really wonder why it's the employment office, when it actually represents completely different social areas - pays these contributions and they don't go where they are supposed to go. [[17.30 hours]] Now we've seen that in Chanov, where I've been to see, I've gone through what Chanov's housing estate looks like, what Genov looks like, what Obrnice looks like, and I've seen the consequences of this, which arise here, when people who pay rent to these speculators with flats move into the housing community or into the apartment building. We witnessed a demolition in Chanov, the house was not a community of owners, it belonged to the village, or the state, and we all eventually paid for the demolition of this house, whose tenants in history were paid a lot of money as contributions or housing payments. What, though, about those flats that aren't state-owned or those houses that belong to the community of owners or cooperatives? The squads can handle it. Ironically, there is a great difference between the cooperative form of ownership and the direct personal form of ownership. I wonder why somewhere afterwards those owners, or the owner, that city, the contribution from the state to the destruction of the house, and others don't. Here's the inequality, the inequality of ownership. And I'm also wondering that when I was looking up some information about it, it was in Chanov, or it was in Most, now I'm not sure the city office forgave debts of the amount, I don't know how many millions, 30 million or more, for energy and these things. Why do some forgive and some don't? Here the right usually fights for equal access and freedom, and here there is discrimination against those who have bought these houses and cannot decide who will be their neighbor. We're getting there now, I'm mentioning a slightly different subject. This topic has been mentioned by a representative of the Ombudsman's Office, and it is common in the neighbouring countries of the European Union, where co-owners can comment on who will live in these houses with them, whom they will provide and who is trustworthy to them and who is not. They don't have that option in our country, but they are obliged to bear the consequences when the person in question causes big problems there. I was wondering if on that round table that I organized, if the representative of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, I'm sorry, I've already forgotten the name, the lady who was there, if she can give information about how many checks are carried out, how these contributions are handled. She hasn't been able to answer, maybe the secretary will have some background. I don't know if she'll be able to answer or not. However, the practice is that really small amounts have been paid for a long time and the effect is about the same as when many years with non-profit organizations dealing with Romani issues are paying contributions and the result is slim... I'll say slim. And I think that even here is a slim result of what's happening. I've registered that Madam Secretary, to correct me, if I'm not giving the right information, he's proposing one of those two items, cancel the benefits, I don't know if it's a contribution or a supplement. No, he's wagging his head that it's not. I think the Secretary of State will comment on that later. I believe that it is not necessarily necessary to proceed to legislative regulation. It would be enough if the authorities that pay the payments and contributions were to have the relevant documents and information submitted about how the houses are. However, if housing authorities are involved in this, which are able to provide relevant information, whether those contributions that are not small are treated as they should be treated as they should. I and a few of my colleagues from the petition committee have adopted an amendment to which I will then sign up in a detailed debate, which seeks to address this by finding that the debtor who does not send the benefits he collects, hereinafter as energy payments, for the supply of heat, water, so that the benefits are provided directly to the authorities. This will greatly limit the efforts of speculators to do the policies they do and bring those houses to bankruptcy. When we had an exit meeting, I was there with the Committee on Budgets in the Ústí Region, so I arranged it, I had the opportunity to go around, what Janov and Obrnice look like. I was completely appalled. There are large blocks of flats that are completely empty. And if we're going to ask you a question with me, where did the tenants who lived there go, the people who lived there, who devastated the houses, completely devastated them -- they moved a little further. And what happened there is happening in a different place. So far, this is happening largely or dominantly on the soil of the Ústí Region, but those who have experience with it, the governors of the municipalities, say: Once they no longer have a place to operate, they will move to other regions. And that's why I started dealing with it. I expect some information from the petitioner here and a concrete proposal on what to do to avoid abuse, because the information that these things are dealt with by existing legislation is not acceptable to me. Impacts and results - if you want, look at my site, you'll find pictures of those empty blocks of houses, literally part of the estate completely empty. I was in the house where the front door was missing, the door to the apartment, and imagine, the house was drowning. It's another object that's going to lead the operator to bankruptcy. I wonder how companies, it was a well-known company that deals with real estate and renting, let the situation go so far. And since I know that she has apartments in other cities of the Czech Republic, I am really worried that if she behaved this way in the Ústí Region, she will also behave in regions or places of others. I will wait, I hope that the Minister will speak before the final word so that we can respond, if necessary, to what information he will communicate or how he will respond to what has been said so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u9	I thank Mr Karel Fiedler. Now, factual remarks. Mrs Rutová first. I'm sorry, but your application was at a time when I had already called on Mr. Fiedler to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u10	Beautiful evening. My name is Míla Rutová, and I'm from Pilsen County. I am also a member of the petition committee, and I was handling a complaint, a petition from the citizens of Semnevice. And I can confirm exactly what my colleague Vilímec says because it's one terrible thing. The mayor and many other people who live in that village are absolutely helpless because they have exhausted all the possibilities that legislation gives them. I had the Parliamentary Institute work out, really, if they did everything the way they were supposed to, and so they did. And it occurred to me that they have not yet met any of the Romani initiatives that have many non-profit organizations, which should therefore help in such cases. [[17.40 hours]] I have addressed one person who is supposed to be on the Government Legislative Council for National Minorities. I introduced him to the whole situation, we met on my parliamentary day. I have a file on all those things from the village. He looked at it and said, "Well, give it to me, I'll study it, but I want a fee." I stopped and said, "How - fee?" And he said to me, "Well, I don't want much, like, 20 grand.". You know, this really got to me, because at the same time, we were actually approving the government's budget on the last petition committee. The money that goes into these activities is so powerful, and you all know it. It really should be done because you don't realize what we're going to ignite between white and black when I have to say it like that. And that's where racism comes from.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u11	My colleague, you have made a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u12	I'm sorry. I'll take a long time next time to introduce you to it perfectly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u13	No one is stopping you from joining the debate. We have two more factual points. I'm gonna ask my colleague Opálka to wait. Now, Mrs Hana Aulická, then Mr Vozka. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to respond to Mr Fiedler's words through you. I'm from Most. I'm from the Ústí Region, and of course I know the situation very well. What you said here - from many points of view, I agree with you and I agree. In the Committee on Social Policy, I strongly appealed to the representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in this amendment not to address the substandard housing form, i.e. the hostels, but to address the very standard housing form, i.e. normally apartments. The point is that this proposal was created in writing a coalition agreement, and when I appealed to this problem that arises with apartments - today it is only marginally the hostels - I was told that it is simply not on the agenda of the day, regardless of the fact that both the Minister and the other representatives are slowly at home in the Ústí Region, but simply did not have it in their assignment. Next thing. You're talking about unenforceable claims that they're written off and that it's just unfair. I just want to say, of course, the media can say it, and unfortunately you said it very badly, too, they are claims that simply the city no longer has the opportunity to enforce in any way. They're mostly people who died, or they've already taken advantage of every option, even execution, to get money out of them. These people just don't have the money anymore - or we as a city don't have the chance to get it out of them. That's why it's written off. There are no funds that the city would say: we'll pay it, or we'll write it off and we don't want it anymore. It's not true. The city will always use every means possible to get the money back in as many numbers as possible. Unfortunately, it goes into millions, but it's also about what we have in Most for a squadron of people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u15	My colleague, you have also run out of time to make a point of fact. I can't help it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u16	So it's just an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u17	Thank you. Now, two more factual points, Mr Vozka, then another factual point by Mr Fiedler. Madam Secretary with priority rights after factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u18	Mr Vice-President, the MP beat me to it. My colleague Fiedler generalized some information from the Ústí Region, which does not work exactly on the Chanov estate. The city is actually writing off debts that have accumulated, but of 99 percent for dead citizens. Otherwise, we keep a perfectly good record of who owed the city what they owed. Some parts are in off-balance sheet accounts that we just log. But I'm not gonna do accounting here. If I could still respond to the status of the estate. So the estate belongs to the city. The city is not the abuser of its status and does not increase the burden of benefits, so we do not behave as private entities in other cases, such as in residential hotels. So much for completing the previous speech by the honourable Member. About the apartments. It's already history, because the two houses you saw on Chanov's estate have already been demolished and destroyed, because the people have just moved to unknown places in the Republic and we don't have information about their stay and those vacant flats that day or the next day other residents have so devastated that they can't be repaired, and we don't want to repair them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u19	I thank Mr Vozka for his time on the point of fact. Mr Fiedler's point of view. Then we would return to the debate when Mr Opálka, a colleague of mine, is reporting after him, Mrs Aulická. Before that, of course, with the Prime Minister's prior right. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u20	I am glad that the Minister is applying with priority rights and wants to enter into discussion. I just wanted to respond to my colleague Aulická. I understand how it was there with the city, that it was simply an unsolvable situation. You know, but the city as a caretaker paid off its suppliers' debts. And the private homeowners, the community, no one paid for them. They had to pay for it themselves, and they're getting in trouble. They don't have a municipal budget. When it was unenforceable, it was just the city - it had already paid it off before, and now it's written off the claims. And those private owners' associations don't have that option. They have to pay for themselves for the debtors. And there's a huge difference. That the situation was very difficult to solve, I am aware of it and perhaps the city could do nothing but do. I'm just pointing out, and I'm interested in keeping this problem from going any further, so that we can put an end to this, and these new mistakes don't start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u21	I thank my colleague Fiedler for keeping time on the point of fact. Now with the priority right of Secretary Michaela Marksová. Please, you have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u22	Thank you for the floor. I'm going to try to make a few brief remarks to make sure we know what we're talking about. There's two doses to live in. At present, each one is in a different law. Now we have an amendment to the law on material distress. So this is about the housing supplement. We spend under $3 billion a year on that. I'm sure we're not planning twice the amount next year, that's some kind of mistake, I don't know where that would come from. It doesn't just concern the residential hotels, but it's actually a symbol for the poorest. As for the problems that Mr Fiedler here has been causing, in the houses, in the panel houses, where the problem people are moving into the empty apartments where he is co-ownership, in the welfare, so that's the housing allowance, which is in the State Social Support Act. While we've already regulated the housing supplement quite well in the previous amendment, and now, in fact, this amendment brings further regulation, so the contribution goes through, for example, the Civil Code, they enter the hygiene standards, they enter into it exactly the rules, virtually. which are not, as they have, or rather, as in the case of the Czech Republic, they have nothing to say to newly moved people by the other owners. This is a set of measures that have been analysed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, because we already know that this is a problem. But unfortunately, there are a number of measures that aren't in the Ministry of Labour. So in the summer we prepared material for the government, which is tasked with other departments, Ministry of Industry and Trade, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Regional Development, but also the Ministry of Health, because when we, as I say, analysed these things, we simply found to my amazement that sometime in 2006, hygiene standards disappeared on flats, so at this point when we, as a state, as a labour office, wanted to say "this is a completely devastated panel apartment, we don't give you a crown," so we actually have nothing to lean on when there are no hygiene standards. It's completely incomprehensible to me that something like this has vanished. This means that this is a rather complicated thing, which is not fully in the hands of our resort, but we have, as I say, submitted material to the government. The rest of the resorts have homework there. [[17.50 hours]] However, what is in the hands and what is now beginning to be done is that before, to be clear, there is already a so-called. the institute of the special recipient. This means that if the housing benefit goes right into the hands of the person who lives in that apartment, that person won't pay rent and energy, then the employment office might as well send it to the owner of the property or the power company. And it was actually discussed how the problems with the owners' communities started now, so that it could go directly to the owners' community, when the energy wasn't paid, etc., and that was actually our internal methodical instruction, where it would be from now on, it's also not entirely that it could work directly, but we've treated it so that since early autumn, actually as soon as you were in Jirkov, that's how it worked in Vrchlabí. It could have already worked in the Ústí Region, where, there, I feel like they didn't want to try at the employment office to go into new ways, but now this will work too. About the checks. The checks are underway, they're going very intensively. Of course, they intensified at the moment when we were able to take back the numbers of people in our government to the authorities of work that had previously worked in the context of a material emergency in the municipalities, and after Drabek's reform, not only did it shift to the authorities of work, but it actually decreased to over a thousand people. I'm just gonna read a few numbers from this last article. In fact, in two years, from August 2014 to September 2016, there were some 350 thousand social investigations throughout the Republic, and the savings are estimated at CZK 138 million. And we also have numbers of how many doses were taken, how many doses were not admitted, etc. That can be passed on. It's also in the article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u23	Thank you, too, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, have a nice evening. Now duly signed up for the general debate is Mr Opálka and will be prepared by Mrs Aulická. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you why this press was returned from the third reading to the second reading. The problem was that Parliament approved an amendment which gave municipalities the right to participate in decision-making processes, whether the contribution or the housing supplement, or the poverty trade, had to do with the municipalities. Remember the reactions that occurred in Bohumín, but also the good examples that arose in Karviná. At first, the municipalities opposed this rather sharply before they found out that they actually had a single tool to force these citizens to cooperate. And because it was a concern that the municipalities would take it down and that we would have a lot of homeless people on the street from one day to the next, the Ministry of the Interior came up with the fact that this part of the section just went off. Then there was a clash in the government that added that the municipalities would express themselves. But expressing or deciding is not the same thing. And that was the dispute that led us to look for a solution. The Minister said there was no amendment to the committee. I'd say that's about right. We discussed in committee leadership what to do about it, and we were looking to see if there was an authority body that would decide whether the Ministry of the Interior had done the right thing and whether it had the right to make such a decision at all, if it was not in the Constitutional Court's opinion. A certain agreement has been made, a certain procedure, but unfortunately time has passed before us. I thought that the chairman of the committee would ask that this press not be discussed today, but it is clear that the political will is different, so we are in the same situation as we were last time, and we will be in the same situation at third reading as last time at third reading. So what about it? We all know, and in the end, it was also in the electoral programs of all political parties, that there is a huge deal in poverty and that there is no abuse of social benefits needed, but the abuse of social benefits by homeowners and apartments. That's private. Something's been done, but it's basically cosmetic. So we're going to the new term with the same problem if the situation doesn't resolve with the new law on social housing. But what does the bill on social housing say in this area? That what is and what is not a social apartment will be decided by the community. And if it states that this apartment will be under the social housing regime for some time, then the Labour Office, and I note here that in 2005 I asked for the name of this office of the Labour and Social Affairs Office when the transformation took place, then the Labour Office will pay the benefits. If there's two or one or one of those two, that'll be a matter of law. So I don't understand why we're so reluctant for municipalities to have a great deal of authority in this decision-making business, when we're finally giving them the authority in this new solution. So just to remind ourselves why we are dealing with this problem again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u25	Thank you, too. Mrs Hana Aulická, now duly applied for. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have yet to enter into a proper debate because there has been little time and I think there is still something to be said about this issue. My colleague Opálka said a lot, and I think he took a lot of the topics I wanted to say. We are really in a situation where we wonder if this amendment is really important for approval or not. As I have already said, we are just talking, for example, about the substandard form of housing and the section - we are actually weakening the paragraph mentioned by Mr Opálka here, about how the municipality can express itself on the amount of the supplement or on the housing supplement. Let me just say, he's not here Fiedler, but I'd like to say a few more things about the extras, as he spoke here, in the case of the owners of the units. I must say that in the case of associations of owners of units, this entity is neither the recipient of the benefit, nor the lessor, nor the service provider. The authority of assistance in material distress does not have the possibility or legal authority to ensure and determine whether the lessor pays its obligations to other entities. There are, of course, proposals from officials of labour offices that would improve the situation, but let me not say them here, because we want to do this in a different way in the course of KSČM's proceedings and I do not think that I should advise the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on this issue. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u27	Thank you, too. With Mrs Adamová's point of view. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u28	Thank you. I would just like to say for TOP 09 that we would like to support both Mr Vilímec's and Mrs Pastuchová's amendments, because we think that the municipality should really be able to express itself on this in the context of the allocation of the housing supplement, and we should not try to take this option away from them, because they then pay all the other costs associated with this, as has already been said here by other colleagues. So we definitely support in this regard. As far as the amendment tabled by Mr Fiedler is concerned, because I am also a member of the Committee on Petitions and I took part in the Jirkov exit meeting, and I know what the situation is not only there, but also in other municipalities, the situation of SVJ, which then pays off to these neighbours, so I think that we will be really precise about everything, we will have a few amendments to this law every year, because we will always be one step behind those who are very good at walking and operating in that system to exploit it - I am talking about speculators with apartments and speculators who own hosts - so this time I would make an exception, and I would support this proposal. Because I think that we really need to stand up for those who, not by their own fault, become neighbors of people who, unfortunately, approach social benefits and social systems in this way. So much, therefore, just a brief summary of the amendments and I thank my colleagues for submitting them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u29	Thank you, too. I wonder if anyone else is reporting to the general debate. I don't see anyone. If that is the case, I am ending the general debate and I am asking the rapporteur and the appellant if at this point you want the final word. It's not like that. No proposals have been made, in which case I am initiating a detailed debate, in which I record three applications. And Mr Vilímec will be the first to speak, and then Mrs Pastuchová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u30	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to sign up to my amendment under House document 5302. Otherwise, I would just like to add that if the Social Policy Committee were to re-examine it at second reading by law, I would certainly also submit this proposal to the committees. Maybe it was a shame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u31	Thank you. Now, Mrs Pastuchová, Mr Fiedler will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u32	Thank you. I would like to rejoin my three amendments, which are under numbers 4829, 4846 and 4854. This is the abolition of the redundant document of the incentive plan that was put there, as my colleague Adamová said, it is the possibility of the municipalities to participate further and not to remove them from it. And once again, I'm making a motion to make sure that part of the allowance is paid in meal vouchers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u33	Thank you, too. And now, Mr. Fiedler.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u34	Thank you. I'll just keep it short. I will just say briefly that the content of the amendment is that, in the absence of a transfer of payments to housing managers, there I am giving the possibility that some of the contributions received by the people who live in those apartments should be directed directly to the housing community. I hereby declare the amendment by Members Fiedler, Junek, Bebarová Rujbrová, Pavel Plzák, Pavlina Nytrová, Milada Halíková and Le Luzar, who is in the House system under number 5218. I thank my colleague Adamová for her support and I believe that the Chamber of Deputies will also support this proposal, which can at least partly contribute to reducing this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-008-010.u35	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. I don't see anyone, in which case, I am ending the debate in detail. I ask whether the Minister or the rapporteur would like to take the final floor. It's not like that. No further proposals have been made, I finish second reading of this proposal and thank you. I'm opening another point, and that's it.
