ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-003-257.u1	257. Information from the Prime Minister on the actual position on migration and the European Union agreement with Turkey Mr Zdeněk Soukup, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka was asked to submit the information. I ask the plaintiff and Prime Minister to agree who will speak with the opening word. [[The Prime Minister approached the microphone.]] Prime Minister, I'd like to ask you to make a deal, because he's a plaintiff, and you've been invited, too. If on the deal... Okay, with the Prime Minister's priority right. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-003-257.u2	Thank you. Well, since this item is called the Prime Minister's Information on the position on migration and on the EU agreement with Turkey, perhaps the Member could say something for me on this matter, but I fear that would not have happened, or it would have happened in a way that I might not have agreed to, so I would rather have taken it up myself, honourable Members and honourable Members, which means that I would suggest that we proceed in an original manner, namely that the Prime Minister's information on the position on migration and the EU's agreement with Turkey would have been presented by the Prime Minister on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, in my speech, let me focus particularly on factual data documenting the current situation in the Czech Republic and also in Europe. I last spoke here on this topic in March of this year after the EU agreement with Turkey was concluded. I would also like to mention a few facts which will bring about the effectiveness of this agreement and also its functioning in practice. First of all, the current numbers concerning migration in the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic is no longer part of any dominant European migration route. The number of illegal migrants secured is long-term low in the Czech Republic. It is the order of dozens of people a month who pass through our territory to other target countries, usually to Germany. So the Czech Republic is no longer the target country of migration, we are no longer the main transit country of migration, we are still just a peripheral transit country with regard to the current migration flow. At the end of August there were 107 persons in our detention facilities, i.e. in the facilities operated by the Ministry of Interior and used for detention, there were 107 persons. In terms of composition, where these people were from: Ukraine 35, Iraq 33, and in much smaller numbers they were from Afghanistan - seven. There were also persons from Vietnam - seven, or even Russia. As far as asylum applications are concerned. Since the beginning of the year, 995 people have applied for international protection, asylum has been granted until the end of July in the case of a total of 132 applications. So again the number which I think documents what the real situation in the area of migration pressure on the Czech Republic looks like. 995 people applied for asylum, 132 persons were granted asylum. Additional protection was then granted in 270 cases. [[17.10 hours]] The Ukrajinec remain the long-term largest group of asylum seekers. It's been 328 applications since the beginning of the year. With great distance, they follow the requests of people from Iraq, China, Cuba, and Syria. Since I have asked the Ministry of Interior to get the exact figures concerning asylum seekers in the Czech Republic after months, I have here a summary at the end of August of this year. And I think it will also be appropriate for me to mention here the individual numbers of asylum seekers and also the country from which these asylum seekers come. Ladies and gentlemen, from Ukraine - as I have already mentioned, this is the largest group of people who are seeking asylum in the Czech Republic - Ukrajinec have asked 329 people from Ukraine since the beginning of the year for asylum. As far as asylum seekers from Iraq are concerned, it is a significantly smaller number, it is 132 applicants. The third place this year has been worked out by asylum seekers from China, that is to say, third place is the Číňan, who have been asked for asylum since the beginning of 64. The fourth place is asylum seekers from Cuba, that means Kubánec, that's 58. Then there are applicants from Syria, Vietnam, Armenia, the Russian Federation, Georgia. These are the most widely represented groups with regard to asylum seekers in the Czech Republic. I would also like to remind you that in August, the government approved the launch of a public contract for the general provider of integration services in the Czech Republic. The Ministry of the Interior shall draw up an open selection procedure on the basis of which it shall select the providers of such services for the next three years. This will ensure that the state integration programme is implemented in accordance with the applicable asylum law, so we will create conditions for integration of all people who will be granted asylum status in our country in the next three years. The annual cost of integration services is estimated by the Ministry of Interior at approximately CZK 137 million. The majority of the costs, CZK 127 million per year, will be covered by the Asylum Migration and Integration Fund. The financing will be linked to the actual number of persons concerned by this matter. The government has therefore prepared capacity for the potential need to integrate people who will be entitled to international protection in the Czech Republic in accordance with the Asylum Act. However, even the last few months have brought no dramatic change to the situation in terms of its profile and position on migration. The number of people coming to us to seek asylum is constant. It moves around a hundred applications per month, i.e. about a hundred people per month, and more than a third of asylum applications in the Czech Republic come from the citizens of Ukraine. According to the statistics so far, approximately one in seven applicants is entitled to international protection. As far as the agreement with Turkey is concerned, I am convinced, and objective figures clearly show that the agreement with Turkey has led to a reduction in illegal migration to Europe. There has been a significant relaxation of migration pressure at European level. This concerns, in particular, certain European countries that are facing maritime migration routes. The Czech Republic has long stressed measures that would reduce the very influx of refugees into Europe. In addition, we aim to improve the efficiency of the return process for migrants who are not entitled to international protection in the European Union. Part of our effort to stop the pressure of illegal migration on Europe was to support the conclusion of an agreement with Turkey in March of this year. The agreement with Turkey was supported by all Member States of the European Union. From the very beginning, this agreement aimed at preventing illegal migration and breaking down the business model of people smugglers, which for many months worked mainly on the Greek-Turkish maritime border. I will remind you that this agreement was adopted at a meeting of the European Council with Turkey on 18 to 20 March. According to it, the procedure followed by the authorities to deal with refugees who illegally arrive from Turkey to the Greek islands. As I said before, the aim of the agreement was to limit the number of illegal arrivals from Turkey to the territory of the European Union. What are the real numbers? As a result of the adoption of this Agreement, the number of people who illegally migrate from Turkey to Greece has fallen significantly in the first place. While over 100,000 people crossed the illegally Greek border last August, 100,000 people crossed the illegally Greek-Turkish border last August, 2,800 people crossed the Greek-Turkish border this August. So it's a huge difference. By the time the deal didn't work, in August, in one month last summer, 100,000 people. At the time the agreement was concluded, for one month in August this year, 2,800 people. The number of illegal inputs decreased by 97,000 in August alone. Over the whole of August, so many people crossed the border with Greece, as they came daily at the beginning of the year. I would like to remind you that at the beginning of March this year Greece reported that up to 2,500 people are arriving daily. Now we're talking more about individuals or tens. The agreement between the European Union and Turkey included the establishment of clear rules on how to work with those arriving in Greece. All people who come to Greece illegally from Turkey must go through the standard process. So they usually ask for asylum. In the subsequent procedure, they must demonstrate whether they meet the criteria for granting the status of asylum seeker. If they fail to meet these criteria, they are to be returned to Turkey as agreed. Although Greece's administrative capacity complicates the implementation of the agreement in this part, the return under the agreement began to take place. The important thing is that the rules of the agreement are followed and that pressure is no longer rising as a result of the daily arrival of thousands of people. I would like to remind you that this agreement is of great importance to break down the very business model with which smugglers worked for people who acquired their clients in Turkey. At a time when refugees not only from Syria but also other countries find that, when they get illegally from Turkey to Greece, they can no longer move freely to Europe, when they discover that they are being held in refugee camps, when they find that they can be returned to Turkey, and that their asylum applications are very strictly and strictly assessed, so logically the motivation of these people to pay smugglers for something that makes no practical sense to them. And here I think that the key objective of this agreement was to motivate refugees not to pay further for illegal transport to Greece simply because this journey will not be successful for them. I would also like to remind you that the solution between the European Union and Turkey also included a halt to illegal migration at the border between Macedonia and Greece, a significant tightening of controls at the borders of Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia and Austria. I would also like to remind you that it was the government of the Czech Republic that repeatedly supported border control with Macedonia this year by our police officers. We have helped to patrol the borders in Slovenia and we also help to guard the external Schengen border in Hungary. So the Czech Republic, through its police officers, is involved in strengthening the border control regime, especially on the Balkan migration route. I think that the agreement with Turkey cannot mean a comprehensive solution to the whole migration crisis. It is just one of the partial instruments to reduce the pressure of illegal migration to Europe. It is important that we take long-term measures that clearly support the protection of the external Schengen border. That is why I am also glad that within the European Union, the idea that the Czech Republic has supported since the very beginning has been strong. [[17.20 hours]] From the very beginning, we have supported the creation of a common European border and coast guard. We need this institution, which has been established, to which European countries have agreed, to strengthen its capacity and to make a real contribution to the regulation of migration at the external Schengen border. I would also like to recall the fact that there has also been an operation in the Aegean, involving the North Atlantic Alliance. This was also due to the pressure of the European NATO Member States, and it was also the Czech Republic, which supported NATO's operation in the Aegean Sea precisely to increase pressure on the route, the pressure against human smugglers. The agreement with Turkey also shows that if it actually comes true and works in the coming months, it could be a model for similar agreements that the European Union could conclude with other European countries, that is, agreements that will be built on the return of illegal migrants to the countries where they came from. In addition, it is important that Europe's assistance to create the best conditions for refugees in the Middle East region continues. For us, I think it is important that people who have fled Syria from the war so that people who are fleeing Afghanistan from the war today do not continue to Europe to stabilize them in the countries in which they are at the moment. These countries are Turkey, Jordan, Lebanon, some other countries in the Middle East. This means we need to stabilize refugees in these countries so that they do not continue to go on to Europe, and the Czech Republic is actively contributing to this. Within the framework of our assistance, we are ready to support accommodation capacities for refugees, especially in Jordan. The government has approved the provision of assistance to build capacity for two and a half thousand refugees in the north of Jordan. They are people who have fled Syria, and it is about not going further from Jordan to Europe, which is why we are specifically contributing to their stabilisation in these regions. I think it is important that Europe, the European Union, should speak unitedly. To offer our partners clear rules of cooperation. The united position of the European Union is our strong position, and if we manage to force ourselves to comply with the rules relating to migration, in agreement with neighbouring countries around the European Union, this can clearly lead to a reduction in migration pressures towards Europe. It is also important that Europe continues to take systemic measures that will strengthen the protection of the external Schengen border. Here I am glad that the debate that is taking place today after the brexit that is taking place on how to change the European Union also affects the protection of external borders. That no one in Europe is questioning this matter anymore that it is no longer just the Czech Republic or other V4 countries that are communicating on the protection of the external Schengen border, but that other European countries are joining it today. I also think it is important that the debate has strengthened and that the debate on defence cooperation within the European Union has intensified significantly. We have seen that implementing military operations in the Mediterranean in cooperation with NATO is a very lengthy matter, and, in my opinion, if we had our own European forces, we would be able to intervene against people's smugglers in a much more efficient and faster way. I think it is also clear that, in the current debate that is going on in Europe, countries are shrinking and those who are trying to push through some, say, strict way of changing Europe's asylum policy. We have spent a number of debates here in the Chamber of Deputies, a number of long debates, discussions on mandatory quotas, a mandatory redistribution mechanism that would affect the distribution of refugees contrary to what Schengen rules are and what Dublin rules are today. I am convinced that, within Europe, there are fewer advocates of dictating a solution, that there are growing advocates of seeking agreement within the European Union. I think that the question of flexible solidarity is a way for us to reach an agreement and deal with the migration problem together. And that's a topic I'd like to talk about today in the House of Deputies. Flexible solidarity on which we should build cooperation in Europe. I think it is clear that the competences and powers relating to asylum policy should not be transferred to European level. The position of the Czech Government, the Czech Republic, is still the same in this. We do not want the competence relating to migration, asylum policy, to be concentrated within a single European policy. Two. I am convinced that individual countries should themselves choose the form and way they will help to deal with the migration crisis. Speaking of flexible solidarity, I'm talking about there are states that have no problem accepting displaced refugees. There are countries that do not have a problem with providing funds to ensure the care of refugees in Turkey, Jordan or Lebanon. There are states that have no problem sending police officers or soldiers to protect the external Schengen border. I think that the rules for dealing with such crisis situations should be set up within the European Union so that each country can choose the form and extent to which it will show solidarity and participate in a common solution. And if certain European countries, such as V4 countries, do not favour the reception of refugees under relocation schemes, these countries can help financially or can help significantly in the specific security of the external Schengen border or in the security of migration routes for those countries which are not part of the European Union. I think that instead of the quotas that I consider a dead end to be a dead end, we should follow the path of flexible solidarity within the European Union and look for ways to deal with the migration crisis together and face the pressures that are being put on the European Union today. In addition, the rules for the functioning of the Schengen area must be followed and the migration crisis as such should not be allowed to damage Schengen, in order to prevent respect for fundamental freedoms that work within the European Union, including freedom of movement. The Czech Republic is a country that is very heavily dependent on exports. We are heavily dependent on the free movement of goods and services within the common European market and any damage, the disruption of Schengen could deprive us of a large number of jobs here in the Czech Republic and cause us serious economic damage. That is why, in the context of the migration crisis, as Čech, we must be interested in maintaining Schengen. However, Schengen will not be maintained unless it is the external border that is stronger to protect it, unless all the countries at the external border are properly fulfilling their obligations, this also applies to Greece, Italy, and there are clear agreements with neighbouring states that will ensure the return of illegal refugees who do not receive asylum or international protection in Europe. It is also important to coordinate foreign aid, development aid, international aid to the countries of the Middle East and North Africa, and to further establish this assistance precisely in order to conclude clear and enforceable readmission agreements with these countries. This is, I think, a way that we would be able to regulate the pressure in the long run, stop illegal migration, and only follow the rules that define international agreements. I would like to reiterate that this was the solution to Spain's migration pressure a few years ago, when there was also great pressure from the countries of North Africa that were adjacent to Spanish borders or Spanish waters, and Spain solved the problem without requiring intervention from the European Union without requiring intervention from other Member States, by succeeding in concluding readmission agreements with neighbouring countries. It began to return illegal refugees and thus significantly reduced the motivation to go to Spain illegally. We should choose a similar path with regard to other countries. And that's why I think this deal with Turkey can be a model example. [[17.30 hours]] Of course, it is not entirely easy for this agreement to be fully implemented. I want to mention a question which I think is very important, and this is a question of visa liberalisation, which means allowing a three-month stay on the territory of the European Union without visas. I think it is no secret that Turkey has not yet fulfilled the conditions for the introduction of this visa liberalisation. The Czech Republic is one of the countries that insist that visa liberalisation be implemented against any country only if all the necessary conditions are met. The latest developments in Turkey in recent weeks and months after a failed attempt on a military coup took place in Turkey are more likely to distance Turkey from fulfilling all the conditions associated with visa liberalisation. So we have to take the same subway here. And if Europe is negotiating visa liberalisation with several countries today, I am merely recalling an agreement with Ukraine or an agreement with Georgia, it is also necessary to proceed with Turkey on the basis of the same rules and to enforce compliance with the agreement that is here. As regards the financial aspects of the agreement that has been concluded, this is a matter which is largely financed from the common European budget. Individual Member States have also defined their contribution, and I hope that the provision of these funds will allow Turkey to keep refugees on Turkish territory until possible conditions for their return are established. It is still a better solution than facing the pressure of hundreds of thousands of people who would continue to try to get into European territory. So much for the current developments in the area of migration. Of course, I'm prepared to answer and respond to things that are still going to be discussed here. I don't want to extend the opening act too much, which is why I focused on the basic facts. So, if I sum up, the Czech Republic does not face more migration pressure than it did last year. The pressure's much lower. Secondly, we are not the destination and transit countries of migration. We're lying on the edge of migration routes. Thirdly, the agreement with Turkey, as it was conceived, has significantly reduced the number of illegal migrants coming to Europe through Turkish territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-003-257.u3	Thank you. I'm registering two applications with priority rights. First to Mr. Černoch's microphone, please. The Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip will be prepared and then the President of the ODS, Mr Fiala. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-003-257.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I will speak hard, straight and without political correctness, which I think doesn't belong here at all. The deal with Turkey is nothing but blackmail. President Erdogan has caught Europe at his throat, and you, Prime Minister Sobotka, are still clapping. Turkey's goal is the only one. To squeeze as much as possible out of the European Union, whether in money or in political agreements. We all know that. Instead of addressing the migration crisis with a decisive step in protecting the external border, the European Union, thanks to its inability to address this crisis by concluding a treaty of death with Turkey, signed by you, Prime Minister. The arrogant tone that Ankara is dealing with has only one purpose, and that is to squeeze out the maximum. Unfortunately, thanks to weak politicians such as Chancellor Merkelová, European Commission President Juncker, High Commissioner Mogherini, or even you, Prime Minister, are doing well. Even ten days ago, Erdogan himself openly complained that Europe was sending him little money, that we had sent him only five billion, even through the UN Children's Fund. We categorically reject the conclusions of the last meeting from Bratislava, which showed that it continues to implement visa waiver agreements. This has happened despite the fact that Turkey has once again threatened to abolish the migration agreement. The Foreign Minister Zaorálek spoke after this conference about us being on the same boat, but we reject that because we are not on the same ship and we do not want to be with the state that is blackmailing us. In an interview with Die Welt, Turkey's unmistakable attitude to the migration agreement revealed the Turkish ambassador in Germany when he clearly said that visa liberalisation had to come before the end of this year. The year 2017 is not acceptable to Turkey according to his words. He threatened openly that if the Turek did not obtain visa-free travel, Ankara would cease to comply with the March agreement with the European Union on a joint solution to the migration crisis. I am fascinated that he added with one breath that Turkey's ultimate goal is to join the European Union before 2023, ladies and gentlemen. No one can doubt today that the terrorist attacks in Europe are directly related to Islamic radicalism. Turkey has almost 80 miles. The population, of which 99.8% are Muslims. There are thousands of radicals inside this community. Today, these attackers must seek difficult ways to get to Europe, impersonate refugees, and intricately recruit members among immigrants in Europe, making terrorist attacks more difficult. But taking possession of a fake passport in Turkey is a matter of time. The adoption of such a state means another step towards Evropan becoming gamers. We say this repeatedly - visa-free travel for Turkey means visa-free travel for Islamic radicals and illegal immigrants who are now in Turkey. Is that what you really want, Prime Minister and Government? Giving Turkey visa-free travel is equivalent to signing a death sentence over people who die as a result of Islamic terrorism. If you don't stop it, Prime Minister Sobotka, you will have the blood of these victims on your hands. It was our Dawn party, who first openly said that Turkey does not belong in Europe. I proposed early this year and passed a resolution on the Committee on European Affairs against the introduction of visa-free travel with Turkey. The same text, i.e. refusal of visa-free travel with Turkey, was subsequently approved by the Chamber of Deputies. As far as I know, the government in our country is responsible to the Chamber of Deputies. That is one of the principles of our parliamentary democracy. How, then, is it possible that Prime Minister Sobotka subsequently said through the media that he would not follow this resolution? In that case, a similar resolution from the Chamber of Deputies means only a piece of paper to him. Efforts to introduce visa-free travel with Turkey or votes supporting its accession to the European Union are an expression of clear madness. Once again, Turkey does not belong in Europe. There must be an immediate cessation of talks on the accession of this country to the European Union and on the introduction of visa-free travel. Our party will do everything in its power to avoid the introduction of visa-free travel with Turkey. We really defend the interests of the Czech Republic and the security of citizens of the Czech Republic. We will propose a resolution, which I will then propose in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-003-257.u5	Thank you. With another priority right, please the Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-003-257.u6	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I'm a little sorry the Prime Minister left.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-003-257.u7	No, he's here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-003-257.u8	I see him now, thank you. I thank the Prime Minister for the nice statistics, but this does not say anything about the position of the Czech Government towards the crisis, which is accompanied by the great migration. You, Prime Minister, have spoken about the need for protection of the Schengen area and that certain rules apply to the Schengen area. Well, she'd have to pay for that. It doesn't work. Because Schengen is not secure and instead of being 6 billion. The euro has activated individual countries in charge of Schengen borders, such as Slovakia with Ukraine or Greece with Turkey or Italy with Libya or Egypt, so we are putting money in Turkey and we are very fond of the Turek not letting in other migrants. So the migration crisis is going on in a different way. We have returned on a route from Libya to Italy, and Italy is facing another attack, as are the other countries, including Greece, but from another direction. [[17.40 hours]] That doesn't change the position. Because the European Union, including the Czech Republic, does not address this fundamental, i.e. the cause of the crisis. You haven't said a word about that, Prime Minister. That's what I'm most sorry about. Because we can stop the migration wave, slow down etc., but we can't solve it without solving the problem. Whose side did we join as the Czech Republic? Turkey's side? Who threatens us and blackmails us? Or did we join the party of those who don't want to deal with it? In this respect, I am truly sorry, but even at the NATO meeting in Warsaw, you did not say and disprove Mr Stoltenberg's completely senseless words! Let me quote. Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said: "As far as NATO operations in the eastern Aegean are concerned, let us wait. It is a question of whether it will bring a repeat of the famous Italian operation between Libya and Italy." Please, couldn't you tell him that this is totally lethal to Europe? That, in that case, NATO has no meaning?! Couldn't you tell him that in that case he didn't do what the citizens of the Czech Republic expected him to do?! After all, NATO Secretary General's statement itself has become absolutely useless! Because he's not protecting the space he's supposed to protect! [[All loud and emotional.]] And if we cannot say so, then explain to us - not as politicians, but explain to us as citizens of the Czech Republic why we remain there, what good it is for us and why we appreciate how the Warsaw Summit turned out. It turned out to be a fiasco! After all, there was no agreement between Turkey and Greece. There has been no step to strengthen the security of the citizens of Europe, the Schengen area you spoke so well of, Prime Minister. So if the rules of the Schengen area do not apply because the external borders are not protected and the individual countries, I do not blame them - I would not like to imagine that we will again create internal borders here, because this would really lead to the European Union falling apart, we will not have to leave anything, there will be no czexit, Brexit will be forgotten long ago - because basically what is expected of Brussels from the point of view of the European Union or from NATO is that it will be protected by the external borders. And it's not protected. For this we did not - forgive me, as the Czech Republic, in what they were telling us, in what effect we will have on it - nothing. And those words by NATO's Secretary-General clearly prove that NATO does not serve the interests of the European Member States, that it serves something else. That they serve chaos in Europe and to repeat the situation that was here during World War I, during World War II, that the warplace was in Europe and they were making money from American corporations. Well, that's not possible! After 100 years we are not back where we will pay the lives of citizens of the Czech Republic for making money! You can't be serious. So please, Prime Minister, in order to return to the fact that there is a migration crisis, we must address both the consequences and, in particular, the causes. I want to know how the Czech Republic will participate in the resolution of the causes of the migration crisis, i.e. about the war in Syria, whether or not we will be in the framework of e.g. The European Union's Mediterranean initiatives to address the situation in Libya, so that there is no one to deal with, if there is any rented space at any port where migrants can return, so that they do not drown in the sea, but also to flood Europe. That's a crucial question, isn't it? That's what people put me in the MP's office every Monday, and I can't answer it with the words you said here - that we have so many Ukrajinec in statistics, so many Kubánec, so many Číňan, etc. That doesn't solve the question people are worried about. Because the redistribution itself in those quotas is to be avoided again. It is to be avoided by an absolutely pointless solution, when the European Commission will give us 10 000 of our money that we have taken there. Euro per migrant... Well, are we crazy?! That means they're gonna say - but we're paying you? Where the money, the 10 grand. Euro per migrant, will they? What individual European Union projects will be cancelled, what will be limited, and what will we do if we receive the money to force them here? Why, Prime Minister, didn't you answer Chancellor Merkelová when she said that at first the federal states were also defending quotas and now they are not defending themselves. We're not a sorority country! We are a sovereign state. Angela Merkelová was guilty of this against the Czech nation!!! You should have returned it right away! [[A round of applause for Members of the KSČM.]] I haven't experienced such insolence as Angela Merkelová has told you, Prime Minister, since I've been in politics at all. No one's ever done that before! And you kept your mouth shut! Is that possible? So please, Prime Minister, one more time. I would like to know how the Czech Republic will participate in its NATO negotiations, within the European Union, in dealing primarily with the causes of the crisis, and in how we will be able and also willing to participate in securing the external borders of the Schengen area. You didn't answer that, and your performance seems to me, forgive me, the undignified Prime Minister of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-003-257.u9	Thank you and please now with the priority right of the President of the ODS, Mr Petr Fiala. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-003-257.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister, I have listened very carefully to your speech again. I've learned a lot of data and analysis, not data and analysis that I don't know. But unfortunately, I have not learned the essentials, and this is the political position of the Czech Government, the political position of the Czech Republic, what we will continue to promote in Europe, how we are going to build on the problems we have here. The Bratislava summit is ahead of us, and I think I need not tell anyone that this is the beginning of a new phase of the European Union. That the European Union will not be as we know it in two years at the latest, and that it is extremely important that we have some idea of what the Czech Republic wants to achieve and what the European Union wants to be in. You, Prime Minister, have said that there is a need for the European Union to act unitedly. I think it's a little illusion, a little wishful thinking. Especially when I listen to today's remarks by the Luxembourg Foreign Minister on Hungary's address, which concern migration, the idea that the European Union will act uniformly seems to me to be quite illusory. But, okay, let's admit that we want this and that something like this is possible. But then I say, even more important for us is for the Czech Republic to speak unitedly. We can only be strong in the European Union as much as we are united at home. And we are not at all united in what Czech national interests are, what the Czech position on key issues is. We don't even know them because we didn't talk about them. The government has been avoiding debates in the Chamber of Deputies, foreign policy issues, European migration, migration. The opposition has always had to provoke such action. Above all, there has been no political action by the representatives of the key political forces in this country, where we would say what we are able to unite on, what we want to promote, how we want to act in Europe. And I think that a sad example is the procedure for the agreement with Turkey. It was the Committee on European Affairs, which is responsible for discussing the Prime Minister's mandate, who rejected the agreement with Turkey before the summit. It was this Chamber of Deputies that rejected the agreement with Turkey by its resolution. This means that there is no support for this form of agreement in our country at least for the decisive majority in Parliament, and yet the Czech Republic has concluded it and yet here you praise it. I don't really understand the praise. Yes, to some extent, the number of refugees or, to a large extent, who came from Turkey to Greece has been reduced. But new roads opened up, and the problem didn't work out. [[17.50 hours]] Moreover, there are major complications with regard to Turkey, because Turkey, and some of us who opposed the agreement, warned long before the coup that Turkey was a problem in many ways. A problem in terms of our understanding of democracy, but also a problem in terms of security. And now we have Turkey after the coup, which certainly does not constitute a state with which the European Union could cooperate by opening up accession negotiations or considering visa liberalisation. If I am correctly informed, but I do not know it from you and I would like to hear it from you, so you are going to an informal summit in Bratislava with such an idea that the unity of all the steps in the European Union should be a security. But if that is the case, and I can agree with that to a large extent, then any revival of the reflections on visa liberalisation not only with Turkey, but also with Georgia or Kosovo, is indeed contrary to this objective, and at this point the European Union should not approach it. I would expect the Czech Party or the Czech Government to interpret such a position at the summit. And that the liberalisation of visas with Turkey is constantly reviving various loopholes, such as the rescue brake, suspension regime, etc. etcetera, that's true. This goes against the second intention of the Czech Government, which is to depolitize the European Commission's activities. But if these measures, such as suspension arrangements, are opened, this objective cannot, of course, be fulfilled. And Turkey, and I think you said it yourself, does not meet the conditions for visa liberalisation. There's been some sort of resting time until the end of the year. We need not worry that Turkey would send refugees here at this stage, because, in the meantime, it has received large funds to build infrastructures, schools, hospitals, roads, etc., and what is likely to happen is that the Turek will use their time to continue blackmailing the European Union and asking for another package of money, demand speeding up visa liberalisation and demand opening of accession chapters. And that, in my opinion, is a policy that is impossible to implement and which the Czech Government should by no means join. I believe that if we were to talk about this, we would really talk about what the position of the Czech Republic will be, that we could unite on this, and your mandate on this matter could be much stronger and much clearer. But let us leave Turecko and go back to migration for a while. I have already said here that the routes that refugees are going to Europe are different, of course other than those that were when we did not have the agreement with Turkey, I admit that, but the influx of refugees in Europe has not significantly weakened. Even the pressure on Greece, which has fallen, is reviving itself through the Egyptian way and other paths that are emerging here. In this context, and in view of this pressure, it is actually proving to be the most effective form of solution, not as an agreement with Turkey, but as a cascading protection of the borders of Macedonia, Bulgaria, Hungary, etc. These instruments. But it still doesn't solve the problem, because the refugees in European territory are coming, Europe has not yet been able to do what we talked about, which is, for example, hotspots in North Africa and elsewhere, so that we don't solve the problem all the way here. And since all this is true and when we know it all this way, it must be clear to us that the quotas that are not working now are still a danger that is on the table and which also concerns the Czech Republic. And I can give you another number when you were telling you how almost no one is coming to the Czech Republic according to quotas, and of course you're right, and I can give you another number that out of the 160,000 people who were supposed to move by quota in Europe, about four thousand of them have moved, so it's clear that the quotas are not working now. But that doesn't mean that the threat of quotas will not increase at further pressure. From this point of view, I also consider it a mistake, and I also consider it a consequence that we have not sought a unified Czech position, that we have not brought an action against quotas, as some other countries have done, because we would have had stronger arguments in the future. And I believe that if you were looking for that support across the political spectrum, you would eventually get it for a clear position on this matter. But there is another question which I find relevant in this context and which I have to ask you, and that is how we will proceed with those proposals that are on the table and concerning the new asylum and migration policy. I understand and hope that some things there are unacceptable for the Czech Government, whether the revival of quotas or the mechanism, that we will pay for someone we will not accept, but that there are unacceptable other things, such as the unification of social conditions for refugees and other things. And if we agree that these things are unacceptable, then we should have a plan of how we will try to prevent this, how we will try to prevent us from being re-voted on this matter, so that we may negotiate an exception. Once again, I offer and call upon, Prime Minister, to convene a meeting, but not for officials, not for officials, for top representatives of the main political forces in this country, and let us find a common position. You will be much stronger and we will give you all a mandate going beyond this government's term of office on a clear course of action in European affairs. Because the problems that are here exceed your government's mandate, and it is necessary for the Czech Republic to have a unified, clear position here, and we can move forward and speak with a strong voice in Europe. In asylum and migration policy, as the proposal is on the table today, I see a great danger to the future of the Czech Republic, but also to the European Union, and I believe that we must do everything we can to avoid being overvoted on this matter, or to negotiate an exception, or to have any other strategy. But let's agree on this strategy and let's act on this. As far as flexible solidarity is concerned, there I am prepared for some debate, but I have to say for myself that I am very skeptical about this and I am not sure whether on this principle we can solve the problem of migration or some other problem in Europe. But I am really worried about how the Bratislava Summit will be held and all other meetings that will no longer be informal and will really make decisions, the Czech Republic, the Czech Government, what the Prime Minister will be doing there, what he will be talking about, and, above all, whose opinions it will be. Ladies and gentlemen, no matter what part of the political spectrum you're from, we must all realise that in the coming months and years, sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-003-257.u11	I didn't mean to interrupt. [[Member of the Fiala: That is the correct interruption.]] I see we don't have a government representative here, so at this point, I'm interrupting negotiations to the presence of someone from the government, someone from the ministers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-003-257.u12	I already see a representative of the government in the hall. [[Minister Dienstbier has just entered the hall, and Minister Herman has been there for a while.]] I'll ask the President of the ODS if he can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-003-257.u13	I understand that anything is possible and that we are already very tough. But I'm not that tough. I'm in politics briefly. I'm talking about serious things that concern this country and its future, and the Prime Minister in the middle of my speech, where I'm asking him a question, and I'm calling him to some kind of meeting, so he's going to leave. Under these circumstances, I'm simply not going to continue, and I'm filing for word when the Prime Minister returns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-003-257.u14	President of the KSČM Club Mr. Mr. Kováčik. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-003-257.u15	Good evening, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. It is striking that at this time, when regional elections are taking place shortly, but what is this last, at this time, when the whole of Europe is dealing with fundamental issues related precisely to the subject on which the Prime Minister is going not only to inform but also to hear the debate that comes from this point, and is to adopt some conclusions, because in parliamentary democracy, the government is still being developed from the Chamber of Deputies, not the other way around, here is not the Prime Minister, whose name and whose function is contained in that point. And with all due respect to government representatives who seem even to have a written mandate that the government has agreed to represent the government at the Chamber of Deputies' meeting, I would like to insist that the Prime Minister be present. You know that I am tolerance myself, that the Prime Minister's chair, post and duty bear a great burden, but there are not many topics where the presence of Prime Minister House, not only one or two clubs, should be required. I apologize to anyone who doesn't speak under my beard. But let us finally come to terms with the really serious issues to which the issue of attitude on migration, the question of the European Union agreement with Turkey, the question of how Turkey behaves towards the rest of Europe, the way the President of Turkey behaves towards Europe, the European Union, and I think that not only the Prime Minister himself, but the whole government should sit here carefully, because this is one of the turning points where scrutiny by the Chamber of Deputies is to be carried out, government control by the Chamber of Deputies. Soon, perhaps in a few weeks' time, after we may take a breather after the regional elections, the campaign to the Chamber of Deputies will begin. I am convinced that they will no longer be premature, that they will be in due course. And what is happening today is precisely one of the moments when all those who are watching this debate should seriously reflect on whether or not the governments and government officials, ministers and the like are present to the serious issues and therefore bear the responsibility that the electoral has given them, and there is another choice to make next time. I bet all the government parties equally, just so we're clear. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-003-257.u16	Thank you. I'm registering several applications with priority rights. But at this point, if you don't mind, I'd prefer the President of the ODS, who has the floor. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-003-257.u17	Thank you. I will do this very briefly, although, of course, I could repeat the whole speech to make it clear what I was talking about. But I believe you remember it and the Prime Minister remembers it. At the end of my speech, I wanted to get back to the need to create a clear common Czech position, because abroad we can only be strong as much as we are united at home. And I have a feeling from a number of speeches by representatives of the Czech Government that we are not only not united across the political spectrum, at least in the minimum Czech national interests and in what we want to promote, but that neither government or top constitutional officials are aware of any common position. And then, don't be mad at me, we often look really ridiculous abroad. There are things I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, too. For example, when you talk about migration and quotas and the future of asylum and migration policy, you have a visit from Chancellor Merkelová, she doesn't come here often, once every four years, it certainly was an opportunity to tell her what the Czech Republic wants, that it wants an exception, how it will proceed, what we do not want. But you may have said that we have common interests with Germany in the area of migration policy. And that's a sentence that I don't really understand, because I don't think we have common interests. In many others, yes, but not in this matter. After all, our concern is, and I have also understood your opening speech, so that the problems of security and other migration related issues may be as low as possible, while the German interest is clearly to distribute the consequences of its erroneous immigration policy to all of Europe, so that we too can participate in what Germany has failed to do. I don't see any common interest here. I see interests diametrically - diametrically - different. When I talk about a common Czech position and the need to create it, or at least to talk about it, maybe another idea will come to me, and that is that we should have a common European army. And I'm asking what a political attitude that is. Is that Bohuslav Sobotka's attitude? Is this the position of the Czech Social Democratic Party? Is that the position of the Czech Government? Is this something we really want that we consider realistic? Is this discussed when we promote it within Europe? Do we know what that would mean? What would be the financial impact? Do we know what Europe's defence is without NATO? Are we aware of the problems that European states have had in bombing Libya, material and others? Do we know what the consequences would be? Is that even realistic? Did we talk about how the EU Battle Groups and all these experiments look in practice? What's this idea? I think that when we come up with such ideas, we can come up with such ideas in Europe, but only if we are sure that this is the position of the Czech Republic, that it has support across the political spectrum, and that your successor will promote something like this in a year. If not, it's ridiculous. Today, I read in the media about President Zeman's inappropriate acceptance of the presidential candidate in Austria, Hofer, talking about some of his ideas of Central Europe in Europe. You're going to argue that it can't be this way, that we have a different concept of Visegrad. But, Prime Minister, this together also creates the weakness of the Czech Republic. What are our foreign partners supposed to think of us, colleagues? What's that signal? What does the Czech Republic want? What will be his next position in discussing the future of the European Union? And these are just examples. I want to end my performance with what I started it with, and that is an appeal, a call, a request: call the meetings of the top representatives of the Czech political parties and let us talk about what we are able to unite on and what we are able to promote together in Europe. Otherwise, we'll lose one fight at a time, and we won't achieve anything. On the outside, we can only be as strong as we are at home united. We didn't even try to unite our opinions. This is a wasted chance. Prime Minister, let's change that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-003-257.u18	Thank you. I'm registering four applications with priority rights. First Prime Minister, then Mr Stanjura, then Mr Laudát and then Mr Černoch. All priority rights. Just pointing out that there is no open debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-003-257.u19	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, you see, I am thinking - we have acted completely pragmatically. Hardly anyone can accuse the Czech Government that during the entire solution to the migration crisis over the last two and a half years it has not progressed completely and entirely pragmatically. As a result, we are not a country that attracts illegal refugees. When the crisis began, we followed the Schengen rules strictly and followed the Dublin rules strictly. It is true that this was criticised by Austria, Germany, criticized by some other countries, but it was the Czech Republic that insisted that no one canceled Dublin, that no Schengen had been cancelled and that the rules apply to us. When someone came to the Czech Republic without valid documents, that is, he was an illegal refugee who came to the Czech Republic, so he was placed in a detention facility and proceeded in accordance with Dublin. At the moment when it became apparent that they had entered the European Union on the ground of another state, we returned these people. We returned them to Slovakia, Austria, the neighbouring countries through which they came to us. This means that the Czech Government, unlike some others, did not suspend the rules, we insisted on following them. I remember how they criticized us - and remember the photo that was around the European newspaper - the refugees at the railway station in Břeclav and our foreign police officer were writing numbers on their hands so that these people could be recorded because they had no papers at all. Remember how the Czech Republic was criticized for trying to intervene against illegal migration and to maintain order and rules in the Czech Republic. This strict approach in which we insisted on keeping Dublin, although at the time Germany said that Dublin was dead, we never said that Dublin was dead, but we insisted on following the rules we agreed on, so thanks to this strict policy, the Czech Republic did not become a place of transit or migration. Of course, smugglers who sell their services to refugees from the Middle East or from North Africa recommend a route. They recommend a route that they are able to get very well and quickly to their destination country. When the Czech Republic is on the route and it is known that when an illegal refugee arrives in the Czech Republic, he is detained, he is checked, there is an attempt to identify him, he can stay in a detention facility, so he cannot move freely, so of course it creates information that serves so that the Czech Republic is not a country that is sought out by smugglers of people and is not sought out by illegal migrants. We simply have rules in place, rules in place, and the number of refugees who came to the Czech Republic has been low as well. Two. I think we have a common interest in Europe, and we have a common interest in Germany, Austria, Slovakia, Hungary, Poland, so that illegal refugees do not come to Europe so that illegal migration is not there to stop it from being regulated. We have a common interest in that. I am not only dealing with Angela Merkelová, I am also dealing with the heads of the governments of individual Länder, such as Saxony or Bavaria. We just have a common interest. These are the countries that are neighbouring us, we have common borders with them, with Sasko, Bavaria we have a common interest so that there is no problem with illegal migration and rules apply. I think we have a common interest and the same interest with the German government at the federal level. Our views, the proposals presented by the Czech Republic, the Czech Government, gradually became part of the mainstream in the European Union. In the beginning, what V4 said was perceived as marginal, today it's part of the mainstream. When discussing what we should be talking about on Friday in Bratislava at the negotiations on the future of the European Union, it is our success that security comes first. Or do you think, colleagues and colleagues, that security should not be one of the European Union's priorities? When people in the European Union saw what happens in the Middle East when they see the assassinations in France or the assassinations in Belgium? After all, ensuring our people's safety must be the key priority of the European Union. That is why I have named security as one of the key priorities of the European Union. And security is internal and external. As far as the outside one is concerned, it's perfectly legitimate to ask if we could work better together in the field of defense. As I have heard the answer not only from the President of the Hungarian Government, but now also from the Ministers of Defense of France and Germany: yes, there is a way to strengthen cooperation in the field of defence. I've already answered that in the interpellations. This isn't about replacing the North Atlantic Alliance. We remain members of NATO. I think that's a good thing. It's a big security guarantee for us. But we are not the only NATO member as a European country. In NATO there is also Canada, the United States, there is Turkey. There may be a situation where we will also have other priorities within the North Atlantic Alliance. And there's been a situation. When we wanted NATO to do the Aegean operation, there was too much debate about it before it was organized. I think strengthening cooperation in Europe in the field of defence is a perfectly legitimate direction of reflection when we talk about wanting to strengthen security. Europe cannot be associated with chaos. Europe cannot be associated with terrorist attacks. Europe cannot be associated with the fact that no one controls migration at borders. Europe must be associated with security. That is what I will say in Bratislava on Friday, and I hope that we are not different from that, that we agree that security is a key task today in terms of European cooperation. Second thing - Turkey. Of course, I think that the Turkish President and the Turkish Government, the Turkish regime, is not very sympathetic to us in Europe. To be? What happens after the coup, the extensive repression, the purgatory, that's a thing we can't keep quiet about and not keep quiet about. That's obvious. But I am convinced that Turkey is also interested in having an agreement with Europe, that it is not a one-sided thing. Because imagine what Turkey has become in recent months. Turkey has become a funnel that has been sucking illegal refugees from Afghanistan, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Jordan, even North Africa, a funnel that has been sucking illegal refugees and associated organized crime involving human smuggling. If you were in the Turkish government, would you want your country to be the place that sucks in organized crime and illegal refugees from all over the Middle East? It is clear that Turkey also needs an agreement with Europe, because it cannot be a permanent place that gives you the chance to get over it without any problems to Europe. Plus, it's not even true anymore. I am very pleased that there was an appreciation of how important it was to stop illegal migration in the Balkans. Remember, it was the V4 that was the Czech Republic. When we chaired the V4 we made a meeting here in Prague, where we invited the Macedonian President, invited the Bulgarian Prime Minister and discussed how to stop the Balkan migration route. The Czech Republic, as well as our partners in the V4, have worked intensively to conclude the Balkan migration route, not only at the European Council meetings, but also during negotiations with our partners in the Balkans. And the conclusion, along with the agreement with Greece, led to a considerable halt in this migration path. [[18.20 hours]] Yes, refugees are coming to Italy from Africa, but according to the analyses available to us, they are not the people who would come from Turkey, that they would come from Turkey to Libya and that is where they sailed to Italy. Unfortunately, central and sub-Saharan Africa is the source of migration that comes from Libya to Italy. This is a completely independent migration route that has its own resources that are so unrelated to the war in Syria, but unfortunately it has to do with clashes with Islamists in Central Africa and it has to do with climate change and poverty in general. But there, too, we need partners on the African side to agree with, and we will return illegal refugees. Going back. It is simply not possible for Europe to have a policy based on legalising illegal migration. Our policy must be built on the regulation of migration and the cessation of illegal migration. This was the pragmatic priority of the Czech government from the very beginning. I very much appreciate the fact that we are, according to international statistics, the Czech Republic, the sixth safest country in the world. That's not a bad result. Or do you think so? That we're the sixth safest country in the world? That's an excellent result. That is an excellent sign that we have a good security policy in our country. That we can take care of the security of citizens despite a two-year migration crisis. So our country is a safe country. The government is trying to keep it that way. Including investing in security, investing in counter-terrorism prevention measures, stabilizing the police, stabilizing the army. These are all absolutely concrete steps for which our government, for two and a half years, certainly does not have to be ashamed before this Chamber of Deputies or citizens of the Czech Republic. Because as I firmly believe, we all agree that this is the safety that we need to care about first and foremost. So let's appreciate it. We are the sixth safest country in the world. Let's make sure it stays that way. And I hope that this Chamber of Deputies will contribute to this by making its decision and acting. Of course, we here in the centre of Europe, if we want to stop illegal migration at the external Schengen borders, we here in the centre of Europe must work together with those countries that are at the border. And if we have a common Schengen area, a common Schengen area within the European Union, then logically we should also assist in tackling the migration crisis. President Filip here spoke of the fact that we do not care about the causes of the migration crisis. That we are not helping to resolve the migration crisis. I think we are one of the countries that is very active in the international field. I remind you that we may be the only country in the European Union that still has a functioning embassy in Damascus. This is a thing that contributes a lot to being able, first, to provide information to allies about what is happening really in Syria and, second, to help solve humanitarian problems directly in Syria. I want to remind you that we are a country that is very active in dealing with humanitarian crises. With regard to the resolution of the negative consequences that have resulted from the several years of war in Syria. We are an active country. Again, we need not be ashamed of what we are doing and what we have done to address the causes of migration and reduce the huge migration pressure that is on Europe. Which is for Europe, because unfortunately the environment of Europe is not safe. And until stability increases in the immediate vicinity of Europe, the migration pressures will continue and we will have to deal with them so that we can ensure the security of our citizens and that the Czech Republic is one of the countries that will be able to resolve the migration crisis clearly in cooperation with other Member States of the European Union. With regard to the agreement with Turkey as such, I reiterate that this agreement is an agreement of all the Member States of the European Union, supported by all the Visegrad Four countries. And as far as visa liberalisation is concerned, it has not occurred and will not happen anytime soon, because we insist that all the conditions relating to such an event be fulfilled. I think that the debate on Turkey's membership of the European Union is out of place and out of time. It's not something we're dealing with right now. And I don't think the following governments that will come after us should be concerned. Especially with regard to what is happening today in Turkey after the unsuccessful coup. So that's just a few responses to the debate that's been going on here. I would really like to ask that we approach the migration crisis rationally, to perceive the national interests that the Czech Republic has here, so that we also perceive the reality that is here. So that we don't deny reality for the sake of maybe just some political promotion. Because anyone who says that the agreement with Turkey doesn't have results isn't telling the truth. The agreement with Turkey has really reduced migration pressures. And go to Macedonia, Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia, and ask them how much the number of migrants arriving as a result of the agreement with Turkey has decreased. So the agreement has significantly reduced the migration pressures and given us time to prepare ourselves to secure the external Schengen border and to do more as the European Union for the security of external Schengen and the functioning of internal Schengen than we have in the past.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-003-257.u20	Thank you. Before I pass the word on to the next person, allow me to load a few apologies. From today's meeting from 17.30 to the end of the day, Mr Okamura apologizes. Mr Vojtěch Adam apologizes from 18:00 to the end of the day for health reasons. Mr Karel Fiedler apologizes from 17.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work. And Mrs Matušovská from 18 o'clock to the end of the day for personal reasons. And now, please, to Mr Stanjura's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-003-257.u21	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, Minister, fellow Members, I am very sad about this debate. Look at the board: the point is 257. There is no more important point than what we should talk about in the Chamber of Deputies and look for a common position of the Czech Republic. I really don't. In order not to criticise those present, this item was proposed by the Member for the YES movement. I don't know how many ministers you have. Six? Six ministers? You have six members of the government? How many are sitting here? Not one! Not one! How do they respect you as a government MP? How do they respect us - opposition Members? What's so important they can't sit here? Neither the Minister of Defence, nor the Minister of Foreign Affairs, nor the Vice Prime Minister, your chairman, who makes migration an electoral issue in regional elections, in my opinion, pointless. None of them are here. And our debate on the European Union in this parliamentary term is a cartoon! Remember, we pumped, we didn't pump. We saved billions, we didn't save billions, we have to accept, we have to approve, we don't approve - there will be sanctions. That's all we hear from government mouths. And that's a hell of a lot! And when the opposition is repeatedly offering the Prime Minister and the entire government to look for common Czech national interests, I have two members of the government here at this moment - and they have already taken turns. I was gonna say there's been an increase in attendance to three. Can you imagine in a democratic country in such an important debate that there is hardly a foot out of government? I didn't. And what did we hear? Understanding for the Turkish Government, for Macedonia, for those for Germany, for Austria. But we are elected in the Czech Republic! I am interested in the position of the Czech Republic. And are our citizens concerned about developments in Europe? They do! Anyone who runs an MP's office must hear this every week. And there's no point in bagging these fears or criticizing them. That's not what we're here for. Are we looking for a common position? No. Again we hear arrogance from Brussels: It's good that the Brit are gone, so let's make them salt! It'll be fun when we give it to the Brit in the negotiations. One by one, an arrogant voice from Brussels. When we are here from this place, President Fiala called for us to try together after Brexit, really together to define Czech national interests, the answer is that we force point 257 after parliamentary holidays. That means 256 points had more priority. Involvement of the vast majority of government members, overplayed the statistical data of what happened. The Prime Minister's self-esteem, how well he does it. [[18.30 hours]] But Prime Minister, we do not want to turn foreign policy into a domestic political conflict. I think we have enough topics to criticize the government for taxes, regulation, EET, control reports. But in that foreign and security policy, it's our job to look for a common position, and you're not even trying to. Otherwise, if you had tried to do so, first of all, you would have called a meeting of representatives of political parties from the Chamber of Deputies or the Senate. This point would be proposed by the government, and we would be debating it as the first point last Tuesday. And don't hold up the opposition because we have a lot of other points to discuss. I'm not even gonna quote them. Do we have to debate the Ombudsman today? Completely useless law that most Members don't want, only Minister Dienstbier wants to do a stunt on his butt that he's already got four laws, right three? That's not normal. The Chamber of Deputies will mostly reject the agreement with Turkey. And you throw it like that and say, well, that's House business, but we, as a government, have a different opinion. I'm asking the government MPs. You don't mind? That wasn't an opposition vote. It wouldn't have come through without a government vote. And the Prime Minister of your government and the government as a whole are not governed by this. So are we supposed to debate this, or are we not? We say yes, we are ready for this, we are ready to look for the intersection of our interests and our views and then promote it in Europe. But really, Prime Minister, don't be mad at me, the dream of a European army, it's just a mist, a distraction. You can't be serious! Moreover, NATO is logically questioning this. And you can say no a hundred times, so we'll have two pacts. Is that normal? It's not. How many European countries fail to fulfil their obligations to NATO? We're among them, so I don't want to point a finger at the others. But we're far from the only ones. We're not the only ones by a long shot. But that sounds so good, dear citizens, we will establish a European army. Well, we won't. Even the small groups don't work. So they work - paperwork, exercise. Have they been deployed anywhere? Well, they weren't. They work on paper. And we will also waste time with meaningless debate if it is the position of the Czech government, but not the Czech Republic! So let us debate this here and then vote on whether we support the idea of a European army in the coming years. I don't think there's any point in losing our energy. Instead of focusing on a clear rejection of the common asylum and migration policy, on a clear refusal to threaten - you will not marry illegal migrants, you will pay! You say we score that we have the same interests. Do we have the same interests with Luxembourg? I would be quite interested if their minister wants to exclude Hungary from the EU. I don't even know how to do this, exclusion from the EU. But precisely these, these people are decomposing the EU. Not us who want to reform it to serve citizens and the Czech Republic and everyone else. And I said it at another point. We are the EU! So let's get our interests in there. I do not want to turn and dismantle the subject with the individual areas that we so-called retreat to Brussels all the time. But I'm willing to start counting from now on, the ministers' appearances, when we have to implement and we won't, we'll be punished. And we're the last and second-to-last, and they're down to three. So what? Well, what's going on? Nothing! Or do we accept as our bonmot, which has been interpreted for years that the EU is a group of countries that comply with their rules if it suits Germany and France? How many years have we heard that we have a higher deficit than the Maastricht criteria? How come it's higher for those who have the euro and nothing's happening? But we will return to the Czech Republic. Call the meeting, let's see if we can find a common position. And remember the words of Petr Fiala, who repeatedly said that we would be as strong out there as we are at home united. It just won't work without it. And I resigned to finding a deal with Mr. President. But here we can just look for the deal, we do. And I believe that the vast majority of the Chamber of Deputies agree on what Czech national interests are, what the Czech Republic wants to promote in the EU in the coming years, and that we will find allies to do so. Not only in V4, but also somewhere else. That's the point. You always understand, unfortunately, that the opposition is criticizing the government or delaying the discussion of the 256 key points we had on the agenda. But it's not like that at all. You're confusing the public, releasing the fog. We repeatedly call on you to try to define Czech national interests together, agree on them and then promote them together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-003-257.u22	Good evening, dear colleagues. We are before the general debate has begun, but it has not yet begun. The President of the TOP 09 and the Mayors of František Laudát have another priority right. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-003-257.u23	Thank you for the floor, ladies and gentlemen. When the Prime Minister wasn't here for a while, there was almost barking (?). I won't be so emotional. Where's the Prime Minister? Where's the Prime Minister? I'm asking where Babiš is. You find it normal to do such essential things, and the real issue of migration is the crucial thing that it runs around the squares and looks like it's nothing, and then gives away smarts and says exactly the opposite things that the government does? Because he kind of populously knows what the street wants to hear, what the streets are afraid of, so he says the exact opposite. What's the point? I assume that if the Prime Minister's information is here, it's going to be some kind of government opinion, that at least both vice-premieres of coalition parties will sit here. Like doughnuts or handing out doughnuts, or I don't know what's more important than these essential things. I would like the President and the owner of the ANO movement to finally come forward and give his opinion on what it is that stands for. What he's telling people and his media, or what he's voting for in the government? You're defining yourself here because it's a point suggested by a colleague of Soukup, who woke up in the third year of his own coalition government, it can be an antimulticult, but I really don't know what you really want. This is where you applauded, half of you, Mr. Filip of the KSČM. I really don't know. Just as you stop mucking around, like you're fogging up the road constructions, for example. You lie to people because it's absolutely unbelievable what's happening. I'm wondering if he'll even be here tomorrow... You're telling yourself something, it's just said here, it's no longer valid for Prachařův's novel, because it doesn't seem to buy the limit, let alone expropriate it, so it had to be redesigned, but it doesn't prevent your chairman and other people and the Faltýnek from lying to people at all. Because who's orienting and who's able to understand all these conventions? And I believe that I simply know the Prime Minister's position, but I also want to hear the position of the other most powerful government party. Well, finally, sign up for that responsibility. Why do you keep playing permanent opposition when you're almost three years away from being a co-manager? So you want to dig and you don't want to take responsibility? What kind of behavior is that? It never occurred to me in my life that such a fake was allowed to be done permanently. Well, let's just let them come, 'cause then this really doesn't make sense. And also when we're arguing like this, I assume somebody has a resolution prepared. At least the one who designed this point. We did not vote for him because your previous debates here served only to the fact that, apart from rare exceptions - just sometime in February, in March, when we came up with this issue and proposed some concrete steps, from which I think 99 percent was not overcome until today, and that it would be good for the government to promote their implementation, given that it was often a consensual resolution, so it is probably trying to promote that policy. But what are you offering, as an alternative? I'm very curious to see what the proposer of the point is proposing here. When it proposes, it should also simply promote some solution. And I really don't know what the point is for us to argue here, shouting when there's no Deputy Prime Minister of the government when there's no Vice Prime Minister of the other coalition party. Then whose position is it? [[18.40 hours]] So is it just the Prime Minister's personal opinion or the government's? I'd very much like to hear it. And the nation has the right to the truth. The nation is afraid. You're using fear policy. You create a policy of fear, you make citizens nervous, it works. It's Mr. President, it's Babiš and others. And I'm not gonna talk about the little opposition parties. So finally tell me what solution you're offering. You don't know what Czech national interests are? I'm sorry. So tell them what are the Czech national interests from your point of view. Then, of course, when it is heard that we might as well lose 30 percent - it wouldn't be by 30 percent. Not to mention what the starting situation is then. I make a procedural suggestion that this item be interrupted into the presence of at least both vice-premieres of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-003-257.u24	Thank you, honourable Member. This is a procedural proposal that we will vote on without debate. It's President Laudát's proposal. I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. There is a suggestion that this point be interrupted until the presence of both vice-premieres. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Who is in favour of interrupting this point into the presence of both vice premieres, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 153 vote. 110 Members and Members are registered, for 33, versus 61. The motion was not accepted. Another duly registered priority right is President Černoch, after whom President Fiala, after whom the Prime Minister. All priority rights prior to the start of the debate. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-003-257.u25	Thank you for the floor. I will go back to the time when the Prime Minister left the Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies and there is no one left at all. We consider this to be an expression of absolute arrogance towards you, colleagues, left, right, means. For arrogance towards the citizens of this state, because there is a point here that can change Europe irreversibly and completely one day, and thus the Czech Republic, because we are part of Europe and because the Prime Minister signed a visa waiver agreement with Turkey. As the Prime Minister defends Turkey and all other governments here, colleague Stanjura spoke about it and is absolutely right - this is the Parliament of the Czech Republic and we are not responsible for Turkey's demographic position, whether it is a funnel or not. We defend the Czech Republic and defend the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic and their security. I admit I don't really care what's going on in the Turkish government. We are not members of the Turkish Government, we are Members of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. It really seems to me that the Prime Minister is about to make an ad for "Turk in every family." The funnel - Turkey is a funnel for terrorists and organised crime. You're right, Prime Minister, and that's the thing we point out. If this funnel, as you call Turkey, is accepted into the European Union, then at that time the organized crime and the terrorists who are there will be able to move freely and without any problems in Europe, including in the Czech Republic. That's what we're trying to prevent. Not that anyone has any further objections to other states, but if it is a state that has an 80-million-dollar Muslim community that has thousands of radicals, where there is really an organized crime, we cannot give these people a free ticket to the Czech Republic. The next item in quotation marks - I do not want to say, because I consider this to be very dangerous words - migratory pressures. Migration pressures are, it's true. But what happens when Prime Minister Sobotka and the Czech Government succumb to visa-free travel and join Turkey's membership of the European Union? Once again, we are getting to the first question, and that is that people are getting here and they will be getting people who can jeopardize the security of Czech citizens and they will have completely free movement here. You said, Prime Minister, that we are the sixth safest country in the world, which is very good and we really appreciate it. But your politics, Prime Minister, and I'm glad you're standing here on the left that I can see in your eyes that you're not sitting behind me because I mean it not as a populist party talk, but I'm serious. I have kids, too, and I don't want them to have to worry here one day. I appreciate the fact that the Czech Republic is the sixth safest country in the world, but this policy, which you and your colleague Minister Dienstbier are running, can change this situation and we can move down a lot as a Republic. And you all know it, we know it very well. And I just don't understand why you continue to declare this very dangerous policy. The migration crisis is not over. Indeed, there are other people in Libya who are ready to travel to Europe. And Turkey is threatening. We know it, you know it, we know it, Turkey threatens, has a hard government, hard negotiating positions, tough policies. And when we, like the Czech Republic or the Government of the Czech Republic, oppose them and retreat, of course Turkey will push and ask for further and further concessions. From what you said here, Prime Minister, I apologize, but it really seems like arrogance to the Chamber of Deputies. The fact that you left at a point called Prime Minister's Information on the Position on Migration and the European Union Agreement with Turkey, and you didn't even apologize, you had your speech here after you returned, so I really consider it arrogance not to us, we may have got used to it, but especially to the citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-003-257.u26	Thank you to Prime Minister Černoch. The President of the Citizen's Democratic Party Petr Fiala is another one with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman. After him, the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-003-257.u27	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I will respond on several points to the Prime Minister's speech. I think, Prime Minister, that on one thing you have argued with something that no one here has questioned, and that is that the real priority of these days is security in Europe. And I am even ready to support your theory that we need to measure everything - or the unitary element of all the EU's current actions must be the topic of security. I would support this position if I knew it differently from any random information, but perhaps from you at some meeting where we would unite in the Czech national position. But I would like to argue or at least ask questions about the things that you mentioned here. You said: The Czech Republic is thanks to our policy in the European mainstream. And I keep hearing that from the beginning of your government, the European Union's mainstream, we want to be part of it, now some kind of European mainstream. I confess that I don't know what it is, and until you define it to me, I have quite serious doubts whether being in one of the mainstream Europeans is in the interests of the Czech Republic. Again, in the migration crisis, we cannot have the same interests. It even follows from your words. We cannot have the same interests as those countries that are facing the greatest migration pressure, either because of their geographical location or because they have had a wrong immigration policy and those people have been invited there. I mean, let's be logical. If I say a) safety is a top priority and I am proud that the Czech Republic is in sixth place in terms of security within all countries in the world, then I cannot say b) that I have the same interests as Germany on migration. I don't! Because the migration is linked to security problems, and Germany has problems with the large number of migrants that it has taken on its territory, and which are trying to distribute the problems to other countries. There can be no common interest here if I say "I want to keep what is good in the Czech Republic" and we agree that we are a safe country. And that is how I have to think about European politics, or I will get to the wrong end. So I think there is no European Union mainstream in which we should be, and it was in our national interest. Maybe it is, but I don't know what it is. [[18.50 hours]] That's the second thing that's got to do with it. It doesn't seem to me like we're pushing for our opinions and we're reaching a big consensus. I, for one, am watching the Visegrad Four States' negotiations, and I am not at all aware that you have achieved any complete agreement, have a unified position, have been able to promote it at European level. In some ways, but in a lot of things, no. And I'm not surprised. I am not convinced that, for example, the geopolitical interests of the V4 countries are already common in all respects. But even there, we can't find the common position. And I repeat again. You will find it difficult to enforce the interests of the Czech Republic if we do not know them. When we weren't talking about them. When we didn't unite on them. You said here: you cannot argue with strengthening European cooperation in the field of defence. I don't mess with that. I was the one who pointed out that we must also monitor changes in US foreign and defence policy, that we must prepare ourselves for Europe's need to invest more in defence, that the European Union makes sense if we are to strengthen cooperation in security and defence. But Prime Minister, that is something completely different from the common European army. It doesn't really matter, and it's not the same that when I'm telling you that you let the idea of a European army into the world without discussing it here without knowing whose position it is, you tell me, but yet European defence cooperation is something worth strengthening. Yes, but that is not a common European army at all. In conclusion, I'm going to go back to what I said in my opening act, and I'm going to say this one more time and more clearly. Now, in the European Union, at this summit and at all the other negotiations, we will address issues that concern the future of Europe not in two months, not in five months, not in a year, but in two years, in three, five. And these are obviously questions that go beyond this government's mandate. If the Czech Republic is to be strong, if we are to be able to push for something, then we need to be united in the Czech national position, we need to know what we want to do to the European Union, what we want to do with migration, how we want to strengthen security, how we want to strengthen European defence cooperation, what position we will take when we negotiate with the UK, what we want to have the outcome of what is the ideal position for us, how we want to involve the UK in Europe, etc. etc. If we do not have a common Czech position on these questions, then our voice will not be heard in Europe, we will not be able to enforce anything. And you can say it three times somewhere, and no one will take it seriously, because your Deputy Prime Minister will say something different, the president will say something different, the opposition party representative will say something different, and everyone in Europe will say: now they say it, in a few weeks, there will be another government and they will say something different. You can't do that. I call you once again, let us sit at the table, representatives of political democratic political parties, and let us agree on a Czech national position. You will see how much better you will feel in those negotiations in Brussels and at European Union level, and you will see how much easier you will be to promote Czech national interest. I am sad that huge historical changes are taking place in Europe, Europe will be completely different in two years from now, and we are talking about some technocratic issues here in the Chamber of Deputies. Behind me, almost all the members of the government who should sit here, the debate takes place on the basis of some random initiatives by Members, not initiated by the government, not initiated by the Prime Minister, not by political forces that will determine politics in this country not for a month, not for a year, but for years to come. This is how we achieve nothing. We will then implement the interests of someone else in Europe, not the Czech national interests. Because who doesn't know his interests, he's not able to enforce them. We still have a chance, Prime Minister. I call on you again, call a meeting of key political forces and let us agree on the Czech national consensus, so that you too are well prepared for the negotiations that will take place in the coming months.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-003-257.u28	I thank President Fial. Now with priority rights, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-003-257.u29	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this debate is interesting in some way, because it shows in the finals who is able to propose some real, concrete steps that may have results in terms of halting illegal migration, and who is really just raising political declarations and criticism. I understand, of course, the legitimate right of the opposition, the coalition here in the House of Deputies to discuss how migration crises are being dealt with, but I would welcome it if, in particular, opposition parties criticize the government if they ever came up with a concrete, real proposal. But with something that can actually be taken, done and increased the security of the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, I did not find a single concrete proposal in this debate, as it was conducted here today, which would allow the Czech Government to contribute to the resolution of the migration crisis and increase the security of our citizens. We can, of course, continue to discuss. There's a whole bunch of things going on here. I would like to comment on one more that I did not have time to respond to. Otherwise, I left this House for a while during the two-hour circus where we're having a debate here because I was on the phone. And I really didn't want to make a phone call here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies to interrupt whoever was performing, and I think that's standard procedure. If I have a phone as Prime Minister, which I have to take care of, I will take it outside the Chamber of Deputies, so as not to disturb those who speak here in the Chamber of Deputies. The moment I finished the phone conversation, I returned to the Chamber of Deputies, and I am still here during the point that concerns me. I would just like to comment on Hungary and on the Luxembourg Foreign Minister's statement, because the subject has appeared here several times today. I think that this is exactly the kind of expression that some politicians from the older Member States of the European Union have adopted, and precisely in this spirit, the proposals that have proposed permanent quotas and compulsory redistribution have been carried out. That's just the point of view. Unfortunately, he does exist in a number of European Union countries. The only thing we can do about it is clearly reject such proposals from the very beginning. No one has the right to exclude anyone from the European Union, nor does the Minister of Foreign Affairs Luxembourg have the right to do so. And the second thing I think is important. We now need, within the twenty-seventh time, when Britain has decided to perform, we need to look for things that connect us within Europe so that Europe can work at all and can solve the serious problems that are facing it today. That's why I said, in my opinion, permanent quotas are slowly heading for the dump. They're heading slowly for the dump, because we clearly turned them down. A whole number of countries have said that this is not the way, and if someone is opening permanent quotas now again in this situation after brexit, they are clearly going against us maintaining a coherent European Union. If anyone proposes the exclusion of any other Member States from the European Union, it goes against us maintaining a functional, effective, coherent European Union. And I, of course, have opposed this today as Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, because such a way of communication within the European Union is certainly not possible and reasonable. As far as the agreement with Turkey is concerned, it is probably worth recalling the facts. I would like to remind you that the Government has approved the mandate for the Czech Republic to participate in this agreement together with all other Member States of the European Union, and that mandate has been voted unanimously by the members of the Government. This means that there was no dispute in the government that was concerned with this mandate, and, frankly, the vast majority of the mandates with which I am leaving at the European Council meeting are approved unanimously in the government, including the mandate with which I am going on Friday at the Bratislava meeting. Perhaps it is still worth recalling the resolution, which has been quoted here several times and concerns the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the 42nd meeting of 22 March 2016. I think it is worth going back to the resolution and thinking about what the resolution looks like. [[19.00 hours]] One. The Chamber of Deputies continues to strongly reject the introduction of a mandatory redistributive mechanism for refugees. - That is the position expressed by the Chamber of Deputies. I can confirm to the Chamber of Deputies that this position is contained in all positions of the Czech Government with regard to any negotiations on migration policy. So there is no difference in the position of the Chamber of Deputies and the Government of the Czech Republic. Two. The Chamber of Deputies calls for enforcement of measures which will take into account the condition of ensuring the security of the countries of the European Union and, at the same time, the creation of sufficient humanitarian capacity to help refugees outside the European Union, for example in refugee camps in Jordan. - So the second resolution of the Chamber of Deputies you approved here. I remind you that our government supports the creation of sufficient humanitarian capacity, especially in Jordan. This means that there are several specific refugee camps in Jordan, where there are people who have escaped from Syria that we support. So this second point of the Chamber of Deputies in its resolution is being implemented by the government in its policy. Three. The House considers it essential to ensure, in particular, the control of the external borders of the Schengen area, and it is therefore necessary that the common border and coast guard be established in a capacity capable of ensuring this objective. - Once again, the Czech Government has supported the establishment of a common European Border and Coast Guard and we propose strengthening the capacity of a common European Coast and Border Guard. Even the third item in the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies has a clear reflection in government policy. Four. It asks the Government to analyse the current changes to the positions and follow-up of the Member States of the European Union, in particular Germany, on the issue of tackling the migration crisis. - Of course, we are analyzing these positions, and on the basis of this analysis, I have informed you this afternoon here during the debate in the Chamber of Deputies that the positions of these countries are changing and that they are approaching the positions that took place in the migration crisis of the country of the Visegrad Four. Five. The House obliges the government to prepare all necessary measures to respond adequately in the event of changes in migration routes with direct impact on the Czech Republic. There have been no such changes in migration routes. Despite this, the government has taken the necessary measures. Joint exercises have also been organised in some parts of our borders, in particular with Austria, and the government also provides sufficient capacity for the integration of refugees and for the detachment of refugees in our territory. That means yes, we have prepared ourselves for a possible worsening of the migration crisis, but I am glad that nothing like this has happened. So that's the fifth point. The government responded to it in its practical policy. Point six. It calls on the Government to promote these principles in all negotiations at all levels and in the areas of its national and international competence. - Once again, the government takes these positions in all the mandates, in all the negotiations of the European Council, V4. This means rejecting quotas, supporting refugees in countries of origin and protecting the external Schengen border. In each mandate, and those mandates are available to the Committee on European Affairs of this Chamber of Deputies, you will find these positions of government clearly contained in each mandate. So point six, even there's a match. That means, so far, we have six points in the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies that the government is carrying out. Seventh point. The Chamber of Deputies rejects the Agreement of the Presidents of the Governments of the Member States of the European Union on the abolition of the visa regime for Turkish citizens by the end of June 2016. - I want to inform the Chamber of Deputies that the visas have not been cancelled. This means that the visa has not been cancelled by the end of June 2016. It was not repealed as a result of Turkey's failure to meet the conditions set out in the opening agreement. Eight o'clock. The Chamber of Deputies considers the protection of the external borders of the Schengen area to be the primary task of the governments of each of the Member States of the European Union. - I guess it's obvious. I assume that the Czech Republic, as a country that is not at the external border of the Schengen area, can support those countries that are at the external border of the Schengen area, and we have actively done so. And nine. The Chamber of Deputies notes that states that are unable to fulfil their obligations and protect the external borders of the Schengen area are to leave this area because they threaten the security of citizens of all the countries of the European Union. - Again, the Czech Republic insists on the long term on all occasions that he who is a member of the Schengen area should fulfil his duties. Whatever Greece, Italy, is supposed to do its duty. And that is why the European Commission is here as someone who is to be politically neutral guardian of European treaties. The European Commission must take action on this issue, and I have, after all, turned to the President of the European Commission to take action on this matter. So here I think that the Government of the Czech Republic is once again based on this resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, I have read here the resolution of this Chamber of Deputies adopted in March of this year, and I think a simple control of the implementation of this resolution shows that there is no fundamental contradiction between the text that you have incorporated in this resolution and the government's policy and the way in which the government is acting on the outside. I think this is rather a positive report for this House of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-003-257.u30	Thank you, Prime Minister. The last two priority rights under the agreement of Members' Club Chairs following these two applications will be terminated by the meeting of today's Chamber of Deputies. Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-003-257.u31	Prime Minister, I really don't know if you listened to the President of the Civil Democrats, Petr Fiala, and then mine. At least for us, the Civil Democrats. We didn't criticize the government. We have offered a search for common interest and common defence of Czech national interests. If you consider it a criticism, I'm surprised, but the criticism wasn't here. First, a quick comment on what you said. Now you're like a smart hobby. Neither I nor our club originally wanted to propose any resolution on this point, because we consider the debate where we are looking to be valuable, or we should look for a common position. But if you're grasping the word that visa-free relations with Turkey have not been agreed or implemented by the end of June, you're almost making it your success, I think we'll find a majority here that we'll throw the date out of here and that most Members will reject this institute. And it doesn't matter whether it's November 2016 or January 2017, or March 2017. But if you're such a pinktlich and you're actually playing that smart hobby, well, we'll definitely propose that resolution when the debate comes. But now about what you said. You accused us of criticizing you, which isn't true. And then you said that we didn't propose anything that would contribute to the safety of citizens of the Czech Republic. And that's a lie! And I will give you four short points that we have repeatedly talked about, which, if it were you, would reduce the security of the citizens of the Czech Republic. The first is visa-free relations with Turkey. If we accept this, we will clearly reduce security in the Czech Republic. So the first advice on how to protect the safety of our people is to refuse visa-free relations with Turkey. Secondly, we are clearly saying that you should reject a common asylum and migration policy. If you accept it, you will reduce the security of citizens of the Czech Republic. So this is the second advice to keep security at least at the same level. The idea of uniting welfare for illegal migrants is just as dangerous. If you refuse, yes, the situation will remain the same. If you do not refuse, the security situation in the Czech Republic will deteriorate. That's the third idea. The fourth, which would contribute not possibly to reducing security, but certainly to the economic level, is that we will pay for illegal immigrants rejected. If you accept it or overrule yourself, it will reduce security again, because our country will become more attractive at that moment. And that is not in the interests of the Czech Republic. On the contrary, it is in the interests of other Member States, such as neighbouring Germany. And don't tell me you didn't! Have you convinced German politicians that the Czech national interest is not to send anyone here? Do we have their support for this opinion, which is absolutely majority in the Chamber of Deputies? We don't. [[19.10 hours]] So, Prime Minister, in three minutes I gave you four concrete steps that could reduce the security of citizens of the Czech Republic if the Czech government does not act as it should. And if you consider it a criticism that we are offering to agree on this, to reject these principles, and you will be equipped with a mandate not only of coalition parties, even though at least one of them is always questioning this in addition, but also of opposition parties, then your position will be much stronger. If you consider it a criticism, I don't. I consider it an offered hand. And it is the second or third time in European politics, and you reject it. And that, in my opinion, is a grave mistake. That's not a criticism. What can happen to us? We don't agree at all. But knowing the views in the Chamber of Deputies, we agree. If we do not parrot things outside the Czech Republic that come to us, and it will be an authentic view of the Members and Members of the Czech Parliament, I am convinced that we are able to agree on the four things and many others, not only on you but on the government as a whole to equip it with this strong mandate, and you can say not only we but also the opposition. This is indeed the opinion of relevant political forces in the Czech Republic. And that won't hurt any of our constituents. Forget there's an election in three weeks. The problem won't be solved in three weeks. We'll deal with it in four weeks, five weeks. The sooner we find the position, the better for us and the better, and that is the most important, for Czech citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-003-257.u32	Last priority right, Mr. Chairman Černoch. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-003-257.u33	Thanks again for the word. You, Prime Minister, divided the debate from your point of view the one you liked and the one you didn't like. I don't give a damn if you liked my words or didn't like it, because I don't think I attacked you in any way and that I didn't tell the truth and said irrelevant things. On the contrary, we are trying to approach this constructively in this regard, whether it is a committee of European affairs, which is really working hard and which adopts these resolutions and tries to do their utmost in this regard, but we simply do not agree with visa-free relations. I insist. One more small demonstration of hypocrisy that you have here, Prime Minister, has demonstrated that you are saying something else and you are doing something else. The justification of the public contract for the general provider of integration services, i.e. the general integrator of 520 million. Crowns. I'll forget we don't approve. By this time, integration had also taken place and it did not have to cost more than half a billion. I'll read you a sentence, and that's it. The reason for this is that according to the approved national programme from the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund, the Czech Republic can obtain 544 million. CZK for the relocation of 40 persons and the relocation of 2691 persons from Greece and Italy, in case of their relocation or relocation until 26 September 2017. These are not even Greeks, they are not Italians, they are talking about illegal migrants who are being pushed into being admitted to the Czech Republic. We disagree and consider it a demonstration of hypocrisy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-003-257.u34	Thank you, Prime Minister. This was the last application of this day, on the basis of the agreement of the Members' Club Chairs. I am interrupting this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Have a nice evening, dear colleagues. The House meeting will continue tomorrow morning with item 211, and I am interrupting the House meeting by 9 a.m. tomorrow morning. Have a good night.
