ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u1	172. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratifying the Protocol on access of Montenegro to the North Atlantic Treaty /German press 870/ - second reading Please let Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek take the floor. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u2	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I present to you the government proposal before you or you have had the opportunity to meet him. The theme is the Protocol on Montenegro's Access to the North Atlantic Treaty. It is therefore a protocol that is presented here on the basis of an agreement between the Member States of the Alliance, and we have also agreed for the Czech Republic to ratify this protocol. And I should tell you the arguments for the successful vote here. First of all, I would like to say that there is clear support in Montenegro for the accession of the country to integration structures, whether it is the European Union or the North Atlantic Alliance. There were parliamentary elections on 16 October. These were found free and democratic by appropriate observation missions. And in those elections, 73 percent of the population participated in the record. It can be said that the new government is clearly a government that confirms the continuous broad support of the population towards structures, whether it is the Alliance or the European Union. [[11.10 hours]] Clearly Montenegro is prepared for similar talks and accession to the Alliance best from all countries. It is a country that participates significantly according to its capacity options on missions in Afghanistan, precisely on an alliance operation in Afghanistan. It also participates in EU missions. He's been in Afghanistan since 2010. And even in terms of criteria that are evaluated, such as the legal system of the country and the level of governance, it has actually reached the highest possible level of integration. I think there is one important reason to support Montenegro and it is not just about it, it concerns the whole region, because the negotiations with the countries of the Western Balkans on accession, for example, to the European Union, because of the problems that the European Union has today, it seems that there is not so much power left for the enlargement of the European Union. This does not have a very good impact on the perspective that we should create for the countries of the Western Balkans. For the Czech Republic and foreign policy of the Czech Republic, interest in the Western Balkans is a priority cause, because we are just one of those countries that is aware of the enormous importance of the stability of the Balkans for the whole of Europe. And we are a little sorry that we are not always able to offer a very clear perspective for the enlargement of the European Union today. Of course we're trying. For example, within Visegrad, we are a group that is constantly promoting this. But I tell you, sometimes we feel pretty alone in this. Because you understand that those countries that deal with migration problems in the south, or the countries of the western part of the European Union, too, are not and do not feel so committed to the Western Balkans as we are. So we're the ones that pick it up, who push it. However, it is not entirely ideal. And unfortunately, that we are not able to create a clear perspective for these countries, or that it is not quite clear, so it has the consequences that it is also involved in some of the instability of these countries. I mean, I think we also have some responsibility for the situation in Macedonia, for example, where, as you know, they have been facing a political crisis for a long time and perhaps the forthcoming elections will bring some solution. But I could talk about other countries. It is not an easy situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There is once again tension between the Republic of Serbia and federal Bosnia and Herzegovina, as you know, it is still an acute problem lately. I myself participated in the meeting of the Western Balkan countries with Visegrad in Warsaw on Monday with the participation of Federika Mogherina. And the debate was sometimes quite complicated because, for example, some tension could be felt between Kosovo and Serbia and so on. It's just all the past stuff, the simple fact that there was a war, and it wasn't that long ago. And the reconciliation, it seems, is difficult precisely because the war was quite recent. There is something different reconciliation here in Central Europe over events that ended 70 years ago, and it is much harder to reconcile and political stabilisation countries where the conflict is far away, I don't know, fifteen years, how many years since the war. Our offer of enlargement, our offer of integration is actually something that helps these countries stabilize. But when Europe itself has enough problems, and you know what economic problems - Greece, they are migration problems, they are problems with foreign conflicts around us, so we are not actually getting enough energy and strength to make our offer clear to these countries. You know, we've always followed the principle that when the country is ready, when it meets the criteria, we should open the way for them. You should know that in the Balkan countries, support for the population is still relatively high for joining the North Atlantic Alliance. It's not just in Montenegro. The question is, there's not enough response from us. And these are things that are risky, because the lack of perspective can actually destabilize those countries to some extent, and we can actually see it with our own eyes. I believe that we here in the Czech Republic are those who realize how important the Western Balkans are to Europe, that this is something that we do not need to convince ourselves about. And in this context also understand that here I offer ratification of the protocol on Montenegro's approach as one of the few examples of recent times, we really do not have much to offer and say yes when someone has fulfilled the conditions, so we are ready to respond accordingly. With this gesture, we show that the process is running. There is no talk of the European Union now. We're talking about the North Atlantic Alliance. But the popularity in the quotation marks of both groups is often similar. The Alliance also has great attraction for the countries of the Western Balkans. And we can offer at least this right now. And then, if you ask me about relations between Montenegro and the Czech Republic, you all know that Montenegro is not a big country, even if it is a beautiful country. However, our involvement in economics, too, would like to mention here, is quite significant. For example, in the field of energy, we are trying there and we have quite successfully tried to succeed in the relatively large contract of the Pljevlja power plant. So it is also because the country is small, so our economic engagement is potentially extensive. Just to make it clear that hora can and is quite an important partner for us. We have a very friendly, very friendly environment there, including the development of economic relations. So that's a good partner for us. I'm just saying that for bilateral relationships. I would like us to agree here today that we are ready to support this, in support of Montenegro and in support of this, following Montenegro's approach to the North Atlantic Treaty. So much for my introduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u3	Thank you, Minister. I ask the rapporteur of the foreign committee of Mr Pavel Šrámek to justify the resolution of the committee delivered as Parliamentary Press 870/1. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to supplement the Minister, who has presented very comprehensively the reasons for approval or for the proposal for approval of this Protocol. Montenegro is already contributing to NATO operations and, of course, it is desirable for it to continue its reform efforts to improve government and law. Moreover, the fact that Montenegro will become another member of the Alliance will certainly help to strengthen stability and security in the Balkans, as the Minister has already mentioned. And, of course, it also affects some kind of security in the case of investments that flow there and from the Czech Republic. That's my reason. Allow me to read the resolution now. Or after the debate?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u5	Yes, read the resolution adopted by the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u6	Let me read the resolution of the Foreign Committee of the 28th meeting of 6 October 2016 on the Government's proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratifying the Protocol on the Access of Montenegro to the North Atlantic Treaty, House press number 870. After the justification of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dr Martin Smolek, Mr Pavel Šrámek's report, and after the debate, the Foreign Committee first recommends: The Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees to ratify the Protocol on Montenegro's Access to the North Atlantic Treaty, signed in Brussels on 19 May 2016.' Secondly, he instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thirdly, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the outcome of this government proposal at a meeting of the Foreign Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u7	Thank you, too. I am opening up a debate and registering one application. Member Leo Luzar reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this, say, Montenegro's accession treaty to NATO is such a small detail in this regard to many. You're wondering, it's actually a formality. We will approve the State of Montenegro's access to NATO. But let's try to get back to what NATO is and go back to when we joined NATO. Many times I have heard from the mouths of those who approved this accession of the Czech Republic to NATO that it is not so much about collective security as about money security. The popular saying that money is cowardly and that they want to be safe to work and come is such a winged line that we hear quite often. In this case, the membership of Montenegro in NATO will not ensure this. Montenegro has quite serious political problems, internal political problems, it has quite serious problems with its own safety towards its neighbours, let's face it, because the situation in the countries of the former Yugoslavia is not calm, it is not clarified. And as a member of NATO, we are trying to expand this organization into areas that are unstable. What's the goal of the expansion? Do we want another country like Turkey as an unstable NATO member? Do we want another country where we won't know which way it's going? Do we want another risk this time in the Balkans? If we don't want to, then we should think about the Balkans as a whole and not paralyze it like in classic colonial films, when it divides and reigns. And Montenegro is an example of that. What will the citizens of Montenegro have to do with NATO membership? Only an imaginary sense of security. Let's talk about it. Because Montenegro's main problems are the national problems that this country has. And in this NATO, it doesn't help at all. We, the members of the European Union and NATO, are also witnessing how NATO helps us to protect borders, how NATO protects Europe's maritime borders, how much it is willing to contribute to Europe's security. Because I think the migration crisis is a breach of Europe's security, a serious breach of Europe's security. And NATO's face is that it's not his problem. How does NATO face the situation of a member of Turkey? There's a serious breach, if I say so, of democracy. I think everyone will say yes, we're following the situation in Turkey. And what does NATO do, this organization with its member, who doesn't do what he should do, not work the way it should work? He puts his head in the sand. Let's talk frankly. Yes, NATO is the relic of the Cold War. It remains rigid in its objectives and the main objective is to expand as many territories as possible without ensuring that the territory is truly permanent. When trouble comes, NATO doesn't work. And I say with full openness that I think NATO really doesn't work. And now we say to the citizens of Montenegro: come to NATO, it's some club of the chosen to help you. The same words were used and discussed when we approached NATO, the European Union, these international organisations, when citizens expected what it would bring. Today, when you ask citizens what our membership of NATO brings, our membership of the European Union, they often shake their heads and even wonder if it makes sense. The disappointment is much worse than looking forward to some possible better tomorrow. That is why I consider NATO to be the relic of the Cold War and the consideration that it poses some security risk that will enable economic development, I find it highly misguided. If, in Europe's international policy, it is not clear what development will look like in the next five years, I mean now in the Balkans, I mean now, of course, the state of Turkey, so I think it is very premature to expand this NATO headlessly. I've even heard the tendency that Georgia is claiming to like it. Ukraine - go to NATO! What's the target? How do we argue when these requests come? What makes Montenegro different in this view? It's unstable territory. I don't think anybody's gonna say it's stable territory. There's a problem. He's latent, but he exists, and he can grow very quickly into a sharp conflict in this area. We don't know and we're not able to say what's going to happen, and yet irresponsiblely we want to make a decision, because it doesn't really concern us that much, that's the problem somewhere out there - they'll probably know what to do with it. I'm responsible for saying they don't know what to do with it. And that is the problem that leads me to say that I will not recommend that our club vote in favour of this Montenegro approach to NATO. And it is not at all that we are hostile to the citizens of Montenegro, but with knowledge of the matter, that we are members of NATO, that we are members of the European Union, and we know what disappointment this has brought for us, and without knowledge of other forward-looking plans, we simply cannot vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u9	Thank you, too. With a factual remark, Mr Ženíšek first and then with priority rights, the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to remind Mr Luzar, through Mr President, of one important thing. He was a pro-Russian-oriented coup, an attempt at a coup in October, which was supposedly planned during the elections in October, failed. He just didn't make it. It didn't work out. So there is simply no need to continue the argument that you are continuing today. They didn't work out, I guess they forgot to tell you, your colleagues from the Russian Federation, but it just didn't work out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u11	Thank you. I'm registering several priority rights. First the Minister, then Vice-President Filip and then Mr. Mr. Šrámek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u12	Thank you. I feel the need to respond to some of the things that have been said here and which I would like to set right, because I believe they do not correspond entirely to reality. The first thing that has been said here, which I have noted - that we are acting as a colonial power, which is picking out and which somehow plots the Balkans, chooses one and leaves the other to the side. That's what I'm saying with all the knowledge that I think I have insight into how the process is going, that it's absolutely not like that. It's not a piss-off. I could never support something like this to choose from, I don't know what aspects. Looks are clearly given. We judge how this country progresses in a specific way. If a country shows interest in wanting to join the European Union or the Alliance, there are now criteria to assess how real it is, whether it is able to handle it, whether it is able to do what is expected of a future member, in this case the Alliance will expect. This means that I said here in the introductory word that we evaluated quite carefully what Montenegro did, how it is prepared, how it is prepared, and there are a number of criteria, and these are not just about the military. I said here that Montenegro has clearly advanced as far as possible, and that's a match. No one's really questioning that. So, not pouting, but evaluating what the country really has gone through, and if it's trying, if it's serious, and if it's doing it in those things that it's capable of and should do, that's what it's doing. That's the first thing that's important to hear here. Second thing. It was said here that NATO, that it was a bit of an illusion, that it was stabilizing. I'm sorry, but it feels like it's inaccurate, too. As the Czech Republic we joined the Alliance and the European Union, I have no doubt that this has caused the Czech Republic to be seen as a safe country in which it is worth investing, because guarantees are relatively high. And if we don't admit this, we're gonna lie to each other. Do you understand? If you don't want to admit that entry into these organizations really stabilized the position of the Czech Republic and that investors responded and said... Those are very serious things for the investors. When they want to go somewhere, they want to know that conditions aren't going to change dramatically, and these elements just played a role. And it's even hard to measure. The only thing I know for sure was that it had an effect. So the fact that it stabilized us, let's not say that it wouldn't stabilize anyone else if it obviously helped us. [[11.30 hours]] Today we are seen as a relatively successful country in a number of respects, economic and certain political stability, I dare say here, because I hear it out there all the time, and of course the entry into these alliances was involved in this painting. If we hadn't, I think it would have just been different. Well, whether we like it or not, let's not deny the other one when it suits us. So I insist that it has its influence and that the entry, if anyone succeeds, has an effect on how that country feels. Not only does he feel, but how he is de facto stable. And the third thing that also seems important to me, and I also find it interesting, and I would like to comment on it. It said here: What does NATO do? What does NATO do with Turkey? Well, I'm sorry, but this seems to me that Turkey is a member of the Alliance, in my opinion, and maybe we have a different opinion about it, but I think it is extremely important to the way Turkey behaves. Because if you watch Turkey closely, in connection with e.g. With the crisis in Syria, you cannot see that Turkey was somewhere other than today before some good time, precisely because it was under pressure. Turkey is, let's say, more or less a Sunni country, so we can imagine where its inclinations and tendencies were headed in the vast conflict that is in Iraq and Syria. And we know that there were a number of things that we criticized, which I might say we didn't even like because of the ties that were there. And I'm saying that because Turkey is in the Alliance, so a whole bunch of things started moving and Turkey started, it wasn't easy to play a different role. I don't want to discuss this here, because it's a little terrain that I'm not sure I can talk completely openly about, but I have no doubt that the Alliance's pressure has played a role in Turkey's changing and correcting its behaviour in these very crises. You can say that it wasn't enough or that you imagined it would be clearer, but I have no doubt for myself that membership of the Alliance played a very important role here and it still plays. And if it weren't for him, and if it weren't for the ties that are, then maybe Turkey would play a different role, and maybe it would have slipped completely differently. So, you know, it's not possible to pretend that it doesn't affect or that NATO doesn't do anything. Of course, it's not easy, because you probably know that because of the events that took place in Turkey, there have been major changes, for example, in the military area in Turkey, and that it has, of course, affected even the structures that were partners for negotiations in the Alliance. So it's all true. And it's true that things get really complicated around here sometimes. But I still think that membership in the Alliance is a tool that worked, and I still think it works with all the problems, and it's just something that we rely on. So I just have to say no to this being a thing that doesn't matter. And I hope that Turkey will succeed as an alliance member to be a partner in the future, because if it weren't, my friends, the strategic consequences of such a change, even for the whole Balkans, would be absolutely crucial. And I really don't want to get into that here, but it's a thing I'm pretty sure of, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u13	Thank you. Now, a point of order. I apologise, Mr Vice-President, first of all, to Mr Bendl's factual point. Then, of course, they will be given the word sign-in with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u14	Thank you for the floor, really, really briefly. I think the motivation of the communists to reject this material is clear to all those who are orienting in this area. First of all. Secondly, I want to thank the Foreign Minister for his words and his access to this material.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u15	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Vice-President Filip, then rapporteur Šrámek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I'll really make it clear what my motivation is. In 1999, I met a brilliant black-mountain poet, and I spent a long time with him in the civil tribunal against the war in Yugoslavia, and you know that I represented the mother of a 14-day-old child who killed the bomb that some NATO armies dropped on former Yugoslavia, and I think that the question has made a significant note of me. Yes, my motivation is to replicate the words of that friend of mine, a black mountain poet who said, "Why can't we, like Montenegro, be admitted to the European Union first, why must we be in NATO first?" We'd have a different opinion. We have started paying the euro, it is widely known, we are fulfilling individual conditions and I think that we are fulfilling the conditions as few as anyone. In the end, the Foreign Minister said it here. And I agree with that. But in that case, his question is completely legitimate. What prevents half a billion people of the European Union from, forgive me, accepting a euro-paying country with half a million inhabitants? What kind of horror would that mean in the European Union if they, I would say, listened to Montenegro's request that the process of accession to the European Union be completed first? You think that's an illegitimate demand for people in Montenegro? I think he's completely legitimate. They say, "We don't know if we're just gonna be a solid air base or if we're really gonna be part of that economic space. And we want to be part of that economic space first, and then we will have no reservations about being part of that security area. They have other priorities. And I quite understand him, my friend, because he also reminds me sometimes that we are more abused in international politics than being equal partners. And I think that there is a legitimate reason for me, too, why at this point I have no reason to vote earlier on the adoption of Montenegro into NATO than to vote on its adoption into the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u17	Thank you. I'm sorry, I'm registering two factual points. First, Mr Luzar, then Mr Soukup. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u18	Thank you for the floor. I owe a response to the Minister's speech. The raisins I mentioned, that paraphrase was used here by my colleague Filip. I could mention Serbia, for example, but the promises made within the framework of access to the European Union and NATO, how we could and how we could tackle these issues. It's just really raisins, let's face it. And the geopolitical raisins that we are starting in the framework of NATO and accession negotiations to the European Union. I don't want to mention Turkey's history, we all know it was an unsinkable aircraft carrier in the Soviet Union and the bipolar world from its bases. It was very important for the strategic bipolar world. But that's history, I'm concerned about the present, and how the generals react to what's going on there and how we perceive this situation here, if that's what we're interested in. But I don't want to mention that either. Here was one quite important word, though not from the Minister's mouth, regarding the will of the citizens. I deeply respect that. The voice of the people, the voice of God, is said. I'll be very grateful to the government coalition, if any. and colleagues from the right-wing opposition, if they support our proposal to launch a referendum on NATO withdrawal. There it will be shown how the citizens of this Republic perceive the situation with the NATO organization. And then it turns out what the will of the citizens we're so protective of. And maybe the citizens will say, "We want to stay in NATO." Then we, too, are aware of the will of the people, yes, admit, citizens, want to be in NATO. But let us do this, and you'll see what the citizens' opinion is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u19	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Soukup and then by Mr Kučera. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I must respond to the Minister. I would like to say in advance that Montenegro is not Turkey, so I myself will, of course, vote in favour or in favour of Montenegro. However, I have to stop by Turkey. It's basically a limp. If it's meant to be acceptance for the Alliance, I'd say acceptance for ours is a very close partner who's supposed to have our backs, just the fact that we're going to pacify his superpower appetites, so I think it's a little small. Let us see how Turkey is currently blackmailing us. We've talked about this a couple of times. We talked about it when the agreement was adopted, if we have a plan B. Today, there is quite a lot of serious press, serious media information about Turkey threatening us again under the European Parliament resolution, more precisely President Erdogan opening the border, letting refugees in here, etc. It's just not how I imagine my partner, who's supposed to have my back.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u21	Thank you. Now Mr Kučera and then Mr Šrámek, with a factual remark. Are you reporting, Minister, with a point of fact as well? With priority rights. Then you'll get your word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u22	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, I have the bad luck of sitting here this morning from 9:00 a.m. and listening to the communist speeches that first evaluate World War II and the communist view of World War II, then skipping that time when they closed, tortured and executed the British airmen, the Scouts leaders and others who could confront them, we are quietly silent about that period. And now we've skipped to dismantle the North Atlantic Alliance. I don't know what happened today, whether it's the Little October Revolution or any other anniversary. I would really like to call on all the democratic parties to stand up to these communist outrages!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u23	Thank you. Now Mr Šrámek with a factual remark, after which Mr Seďa with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u24	Thank you for the floor. Allow me, as rapporteur, to comment on Mr Luzar's speech. I will not be as expressive as Mr Kučera, although I would like very much. He used the words of the Balkans colonization here. I hope, therefore, that this has only been said to mediaize in some way today. That's really not a colonization. And in conjunction with NATO being the club of the chosen... Montenegro has decided. When you talk about the will of the people or governments here, Montenegro has simply decided to join NATO. Nobody forced her to do it, no one talked her into it. She just made up her mind. And when you talk about the government or the will of the people... It is a pity that there was also no referendum on the entry into the Warsaw Treaty. That would have been interesting at the time, in the '50s. I'd like to know how it would turn out. [[There's laughter in the hall, noise.]] And when you talk here, that first to the EU or NATO -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u25	I'm sorry. I will ask the Members not to shout at each other, so that you do not raise the noise in the hall. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u26	Whether they join the EU sooner or NATO, that is, of course, the decision of Montenegro. They simply asked, met certain criteria, and we want to approve them there in some way. That's the ratification process. And you mentioned Turkey here. So, of course, the positive thing about Mr Luzar's speech was that he was interested in democracy in Turkey. I was there 14 days ago because I'm a member of an interinstitutional meeting in NATO, and it really looked like it was after Victory February in the '50s or '40s. Well, you should be more than happy about what's going on out there in Turkey today. And really, the situation isn't easy there. But the positive thing is that you are interested in democracy in Turkey. So that's just my point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u27	Thank you, too. Other factual points. First, Mr Seďa, then Mr Ivan Gabal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I just want notes like those answers to the questions that were made here. First thing. The Protocol on Montenegro's Access is the termination of the ratification process. Montenegro has decided on its own entry. And I wouldn't want to tell the Černohorec what to do and how to ensure their own safety. We wouldn't like it either. Second, the migration crisis. But that is the protection of the Schengen borders of the European Union. Let us not confuse the European Union with the North Atlantic Alliance. And the external border of Schengen is protected by security forces. And it's not true that NATO isn't helping. NATO has Sea Guardian's naval operation. He's got three ships, two submarines, and he's got air support from five states. Don't say anything and don't spread lies in public! And one last thing. The 62nd session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly took place. The North Atlantic Alliance does not only have military command, virtually. management, the way things went down here, but it has political control and it has political control. And everywhere it sounds that NATO's open door policy is the right one. So please, let's get back to the protocol here, support the Černohorec in their efforts to ensure the safety of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u29	Thank you, too. Now, therefore, with a factual remark, Mr Ivan Gabal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I think it is necessary, first of all, to give space to the opinion of the Černohorec, who have overcome relatively complex internal economic conditions and internal policy dynamics and, in terms of the parameters and complexity of NATO membership, meet the conditions and want NATO membership. That's important. I think we need to give space to those who want to make decisions about themselves. Two. As a NATO member, we should take a very good look at the map to see that we are trying to stabilise the Western Balkans, where Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro Serbia are very problematic over Montenegro, which, in terms of foreign policy, is aspiring to membership of the Alliance and, on the other hand, is highly volatile internally. For a long time, we had to keep troops in the Balkans in order to stabilize the external forces of ethnic conflict. The entry of Montenegro and other Balkan countries into the Alliance means that they are stabilized by their own resources, internal democracies, their own capabilities and capacities. And one last thing. As far as NATO is concerned, anyone who looks at the middle life span of NATO member states and compares them with countries such as those of NATO. Russia or Ukraine or Moldova will understand - and I agree with my colleagues from the left - NATO is indeed an elite club that guarantees a high quality of life, longevity and safety. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u31	Thank you. Now with priority rights, the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u32	Okay. Once again, three notes, because I can't keep my mouth shut as you know me. This is where Vice-President Filip said. Well, actually, I wouldn't argue that much. On Monday, when I was in Warsaw at a meeting between the Balkan countries and Visegrad, I recalled once again in the debate that Jean-Claude Juncker's performance was not happy at the beginning when the Commission started when the sentence came down that enlargement was not on the agenda of the day. That seemed like a mistake to me. And we're even going back to that. So the fact that the atmosphere isn't good for it today is a situation that we didn't cause because there are a number of factors. And we are the ones who are constantly stressing that the Western Balkans must be our focus. And those who don't have it, so we're trying to... So it'll be something to concentrate our... So we don't just let it go. So I would also like to hear better here that the Western Balkan countries would want to move faster in the integration process, but the conditions are not, and our group is weak. So this is reality. And I don't know why we should be holding back the fact that Montenegro has fulfilled the conditions of preparation for the Alliance. So that's the first thing. [[11.50 hours]] Second thing. I think Mr. Seďa said very well here that when we turn to the Alliance in connection with migration, we, as members, never said that the Alliance was supposed to work. And I remind you, you know that the United States doesn't, and the United States Army isn't the one guarding the borders of the United States. That's what special security forces are for, in the case of the United States, very massive. They even have tens of thousands of people, but it's just a completely different file. And NATO is a means of territorial defense, and if we wanted things to be different, we'd have to agree on that first. And it's true that the Alliance has become involved in some things, but it just hasn't been built on it, nor have we ever asked her to do that. And the third thing, that's a referendum on joining NATO. Sounds like an interesting topic to me, too. We live in a world that seems increasingly insecure, it seems very difficult to face the forces of chaos, and you would now say that in the Czech Republic we are going to talk about leaving NATO? I'm sorry, but that sounds a little crazy to me. Moreover, no one talked about this before any elections, because this is the stable direction of Czech foreign policy: Europe, the Alliance. And I don't know that anyone would do it on the agenda and say that's what they want, that's what they want to talk about with the citizens today. And so, in the squares, in the streets, when I'm trying to have fun, no one's saying that this is what they want out of today. So where do you get this topic, a referendum? I don't think there's the will of people to talk about something like that. And it's not at all that I'm denying people the right, but it seems to me that the time doesn't tell people the truth at all. It seems to me that the Alliance has very decent support in the Czech Republic and that people realize that today we are securely tied to our allies. And this thing seems so clear to me that I wouldn't talk about a referendum!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u33	Thank you. Now, therefore, duly signed up for the debate, Mr Grospič. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, my fellow Members, of course I will not be in charge here and I do not want to have long discussions on the topic of the North Atlantic Alliance, its meaningfulness and its future and, of course, on the merits of the Czech Republic currently experiencing a highly economic boom. I don't think it's a matter of the North Atlantic Alliance at all, and the nature of the boom is completely different. However, I would like to remind you of a few of these possible small realities. Montenegro has an area of 13,812 square kilometers, 626,000 inhabitants and 2,500 soldiers, including the Coast Guard. So let us ask ourselves, what can be the significance of such a large Balkan state for the North Atlantic Alliance, a state that is not even a member of the EU at present? It can only have it if we consider that we need to strengthen our positions off the Adriatic coast and in the Balkans in terms of the North Atlantic Alliance strategy. Then it makes a great deal of sense, because by doing so, the North Atlantic Alliance will gain a smooth approach to the Adriatic Sea, to Greece, and in a way to a much more delicate and discussed ally, which has become Turkey after an unsuccessful attempt to take power towards President Erdogan. From this point of view, I think The North Atlantic Alliance has already gone far beyond its horizon that the Czech Republic should not participate in these games to redistribute and strengthen its power of influence, but, on the contrary, it should go on a permanent path of building its neutrality and strengthening peace. The integration of Montenegro into the North Atlantic Alliance will certainly not help this. I will therefore not vote in favour of the proposal for this Treaty.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u35	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr. Ivan Gabal. Since no one is logged in, Mr. Ambassador, you can sign in properly, you will not be limited by two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u36	I'll be very brief. [[Okay, please.]] I've already made some arguments here. I just want to say very briefly that Montenegro's entry into the North Atlantic Alliance will help stabilize the Balkans. This means that the perspective that we would ever have to put out military conflict in the Balkans by our military forces will fall significantly. And that is important to me both in terms of our interests and in terms of the interests of the Blackhorns and the entire territory. This line of extension down to Greece means linking stability and perspective to other countries, further accession to the EU, and this is already a legal environment that would certainly help Member States and the population in the Balkans. So the entry of Montenegro into the North Atlantic Alliance of Peace in the Balkans will help.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u37	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. Please, Mr. Mr. Benešík. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am quite in close contact with the policies in Montenegro, monitoring the preferences for this country's entry into the North Atlantic Alliance. They're totally inclined to do it. I think we should accommodate them. If anyone else doesn't think so, it's his legitimate right, but I personally think we should comply with most of the people of this country who see their security in the North Atlantic Alliance. That is why I will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u39	I also thank you and ask if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. I'm gonna ask my colleague Gazdík to relieve me, and I'm gonna talk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u40	Good noon, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Mr. Vice-President Jan Bartošek is reporting. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u41	Thank you. It won't let me get off here, either. For one thing, I would like to thank the Minister for his factual and correct argument. For me, this point is more about what and who the Communist Party is. The party unreformed and probably unreformable, which was mentally stuck in the time of the Warsaw Treaty, and may be closer to the policies of the 68th and invasion of the Allied forces, possibly the occupation of Crimea. Maybe it's the security and foreign policy they prefer. I'm saying that by being members or part of NATO, we're stable. And it's not just where we belong and what we're part of under contract, but it's also a question of where we want to belong mentally. If we want to belong to a democratic environment to the west, or to the east, where democracy is dealt with by simply occupying the Crimea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-002-172.u42	I thank the Vice-President. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the debate and I am asking the Minister's final words or the rapporteur's. Not interested. We shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. First, I'm gonna check you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the resolution, as the rapporteur of the foreign committee, Mr Pavel Šrámek, said. I am opening the vote on this resolution. Whoever is in favour of the resolution, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the number 43 vote, 116 Members of Parliament registered, for 95, against 16. The motion for a resolution has been approved. [[Applause especially in the right side of the hall.]] I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is:
