ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 39th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. I'd like you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. I would like to inform you that the following Members of the Government have asked to apologise for their failure to attend the meeting: Mr Adamec - a foreign trip, Mr Adámek - a foreign trip, Mrs Balaštíková - health reasons, Mr Běhounek within 15 hours - working grounds, Mr Böhnisch within 19 hours without giving any reason, Mr Farský - health reasons, Mrs Fischerová - a foreign trip, Mrs Halíková - a foreign trip, Mrs Havlová - medical reasons, Mr Chalupa within 21 hours - working reasons, Mr Janulík - working grounds, Mr Kasal - working grounds, Mr Kořenek - health reasons, Mr Kott - working grounds, Mr Lobkowicz - a foreign trip, Mr Nykl - working Zavadil, Mr Pavera - personal reasons, Mr Plíšek - health reasons, Mr Schwarzenberg - working grounds, Mrs Strnadlová - personal reasons, Mr Váňa - a Member without giving reason, Mr Nykl - working grounds - medical lessons Zavada. Mr Tejc votes with card number 11. Minister Babiš apologizes from the members of the government - working reasons, Minister Brabec - foreign travel, Minister Chovanec - foreign travel, Minister Jurečka - working reasons, Minister Marksová - working reasons, Minister Mládek - foreign travel, Minister Valachová - working reasons and Minister Zaorálek - foreign travel. So many apologies. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] First of all, I would like to inform you about the proposals on which today's grémium has been agreed. I would ask the right side of the House for peace. [[It's ringing with a bell.]] Thank you. I'll keep you informed of the proposals on which the grémium agreed. Firstly, on 27 January, the Organising Committee approved the draft rules for the management of Members' clubs for 2016, which is House document 3624, and we propose that it be included in the 39th meeting programme in the Report block, proposals and more. Its fixed classification will subsequently be specified. The House's Grémium proposes the following negotiating structure for this week: Today discuss paragraph 16, which is the second reading of the Health Services Act, and the following points: 83, 76, 115, 119, 28, 31, 97, 30, 79, 108, 86 and 128. It is a draft law on the property return at first reading, the draft law on the competence of the MIT at first reading, the VAT law at first reading, the law on asylum at first reading, the code of work at second reading, the protection of the agricultural soil fund at second reading, the property curve at first reading, the state holidays at second reading, the enforcement order at first reading, the state social support at first reading, the school law at first reading and the detention centers at first reading. So much for today. I only have a technical statement there tomorrow. If the 37th meeting of the House was to be concluded at 9 o'clock, the 39th meeting would continue and its opening will be specified, I suppose, following the possible termination of the 37 o'clock meeting. However, we will decide that at the end of today's day. On Thursday, 11 February, we would discuss paragraph 201, which is a written interpelation, then point 103, which is Mr Bartošek's proposal, to provide benefits at first reading, then point 9, which is the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure at second reading. Then we would discuss that House document 3624, which is the management of clubs for 2016, and then we would continue from the News block, proposals and more, with the fact that at 12 a.m. 45 minutes we would include paragraph 184, which is the second round of the election of a member of the Radio and Television Council, and at 14 a.m. 30 minutes oral questioning would be discussed. On Friday, we will begin the meeting day with paragraph 203, which is the Government's information on the migration crisis. So much for my side of the deal that the House leadership and political grémium agreed on. I'll ask who's joining the debate on the agenda. I have two applications here. The first application is to Mr Okamura, then to Mrs Černochová. Then Mr. Blackman. Let me ask Mr Okamura to be patient. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] More apologies have arrived. Mrs Šánová apologizes because of the illness of today's day. Mrs Zelienková between 14 and 14.45 for work reasons, Mr Benešík for the whole day for personal reasons and Mr Holeček between 14 and 18 o'clock. And now Mr Okamura has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the House to include a new special item in the meeting called The placement of African and Arab illegal immigrants in the cities and villages of the Czech Republic against the will of citizens. This topic is really highly topical, so I would like to ask for the inclusion as the first point of today's meeting, because, as you know, the government has been trying, against the will of citizens, to force illegally African and Arab immigrants into the city of Rabbit in the Pardubice Region. On the basis of a petition on which our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, the SPD, worked with local citizens...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u3	Ambassador, I'm sorry. Quiet in the Chamber, please. I ask the groups who are debating to settle down and allow Mr Okamur to continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I know other political parties don't give a damn about this issue, which is why they're noisy here. Thank you for giving me peace so that I could be heard at all. The citizens of the city of Rabbit in the Pardubice Region desperately began to defend themselves against the government's desire to move illegal immigrants against their will. As you know, there was not only a petition that we cooperated on and which our SPD movement published here in the House, so there was also a public council convened, which was attended by our Members, and after the joint work we finally managed to stop this government plan. I'm just pointing out that citizens have learned about the government's Facebook agenda. Now, after helping the Králík citizens, the same situation happens in Benešov near Prague. Once again, the government is trying to force illegal immigrants into the local building against the will of its citizens and behind their backs. That is why the citizens of Benešov have written a petition against the location of any type of immigrant facility in their city. We at the SPD say that we fully agree with the refusal of the Representation of the City of Benešov from 1 February this year on the issue of the intention to set up facilities for any immigrant accommodation in the centre of Benešov in the building of the so-called Prague Barracks. At the same time, we fully support the management of the city of Benešov in negotiations that will lead to the transfer of these properties to the property of the city in order to be used for the needs of the citizens of Benešov. Otherwise, we also support the resolution of the Representation of the City of Benešov from 1 February, where, of course, they want to conduct negotiations with the Ministry of the Interior and with the Ministry of Defence on the use of this building of the former military hostel, which was part of the former Prague barracks in Benešov. Citizens are now collecting a petition against illegal immigrants being placed there. I ask that the government and Prime Minister Sobotka, who did not answer me - please, Prime Minister - to my interpellation 14 days ago, when I asked you here to tell the citizens what places and towns and cities you want to place those thousands of illegal immigrants, which you agreed against the will of the citizens last year. And you didn't answer me. That's why I'm telling you again, and I'm asking for this point, because one after another, we're hearing from cities - they were Rabbits in December, now in January it's Benešov - and you're just trying to put them somewhere against the will of the citizens. So if you don't tell me the names of particular cities and municipalities and continue to learn this from citizens, at least say the criteria, Prime Minister, what criteria do you think the municipalities and cities that you're going to put those illegal migrants from Africa and Arabia, so that citizens can at least figure out whether they fall into that government plan and start defending themselves? [[14.10 hours]] And, of course, for our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, the SPD is calling on this citizen to turn to our movement, and together we will help them defend themselves against your incredible arrogance of your government, when you are trying to place these migrants against the will of the citizens. We're gonna expect a migrant to go swimming in a public pool and then rape some little boy, and then you're gonna be looking for a perpetrator? You solve the consequences, but you're supposed to solve the causes. That means, I say again - you here are shaking your head, government officials, maybe the Vice-President of the House of Jermanová for the YES movement here is shaking your head, that I am wrong, and here is the petition of the citizens of Benešov who collect the signatures. They were also citizens in Rabbit. So I'm asking you again. I'm asking for this point. It can be short, it can only be for three minutes if the Prime Minister here finally tells us where and what facilities and on what criteria you want to place those immigrants. That's all we want to hear here. And, of course, we want to hear that you will not accept any immigrants against the will of the citizens here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u5	Yes, it is therefore a request for a new item, which has been loaded, as the first item on today's day. Before I give the floor to Mrs Černochová, with the priority right of Vice-President Jermanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u6	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, you know that I rarely exercise my prior rights, but at this point, I was essentially forced to do so by my previous speaker.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u7	Sorry. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm really asking for peace. I ask the former and current Minister of Health to end the debate in which they are so overwhelmed that they can't even hear me. Minister Němeček and Mr Exministr Heger, please. Thank you. prosit, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u8	Mr Okamura through Mr President, if you don't mind, I am part of the Benešov City Council. We have been dealing with this situation for a long time with both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. The petition was created in Benešov territory without your doing, and I beg you, on behalf of the city's leadership, not to abuse the situation in Benešov to your campaign. I think it's unethical, and it doesn't belong on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u9	Mrs Černochová and President Černoch will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I think you have some idea what kind of thing I'm in front of you. I would like to propose the inclusion of a new item called Escapes of Information from the Security Council of the State as the first item of tomorrow's afternoon meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. So it's Wednesday 10. 2nd afternoon. A brief justification that we may all feel the same way. In the past few days, we have witnessed the total destruction of the security forces and the state system in our republic. The government's absolute inability to communicate with the public and to communicate, or to communicate in some things where it is not supposed to communicate, so to communicate, and vice versa, it does not communicate in matters where it is supposed to communicate. Each of the Minister's views, which were communicated these days, was misguided, one minister denied the words of the Minister of the other. On the third of February, we learned from the Minister of Foreign Affairs Zaorálek that the Czech Republic does not negotiate with terrorists. The day after that, we learned from Minister of Defense Stropnickýý that the condition of the release of five Čech from Lebanon was that the Czech Republic should not release the Libanonec Alí Fajád to the United States. It was confirmed by the Secretary of Defense in his public statement. I am literally quoting: Five people will return here safely if Fajád is not released to the United States. It's tied up, declared in the interview the Minister of Defence. An hour later, the Minister of Justice, Robert Pelikán, convenes an extraordinary press conference on Lebanon's Libanonce. He will say in this case that Fajád will not be issued by the Czech Republic to the United States, and at that time he is on his way to the airport to be not deported but taken to Lebanon. It's not even a little. We hear the statement from Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, who will say that he is concerned and that it is necessary to have this examined. In the evening we hear Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek, who in Events, comments will say that he does not know anything about why Minister Pelikán decided what he decided. In doing so, we learn from the media and from yesterday's Disrespect that the Security Council of the State has acted on this matter several times, information leaks from the Security Council of the State, which I find totally unacceptable. [[emphatically]] In any other country, it would already be on the table of resignation of the entire government of the Czech Republic, or the government would turn to the Chamber of Deputies with a request for trust. There's nothing going on here, we're all pretending that nothing happened, that life goes on. We read how much the Czech Republic pays for individual hostages. Do you realize that we have another abducted citizen in Libya, and what you could have done to him with these public statements? I firmly believe that he will return here too, but they will hope that I will not read his return from the journals, from the tabloids, from the weekly newspapers. For this reason, the Civic Democratic Party Club calls for the Chamber of Deputies to address this issue in private session. We will propose a resolution in which we will want a committee of inquiry to be set up to investigate these matters. On what other matters, fellow Members other than those provided for in the Rules of Procedure, on a proposal from a Government or a Member, the House may decide that a meeting or part thereof is not public, in particular when classified questions relating to defence or security of the State or other serious classified information are included on the agenda. When else than now? Something unprecedented has really happened, and we cannot take it as Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic, and we must ask representatives of our government to explain it. So once again, I'm asking for a point called Escapes of Information from the Security Council of the State. I want this item discussed tomorrow, Wednesday, 10 February afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u11	Yes. Mr. Black, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u12	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I may repeat some of the sentences that fell here, which my colleague Černochová said here. On Friday 22 January, she informed the media about the unexpected meeting of the Security Council Bureau of the State. The contents of the negotiations were not to be commented on by the Office of the Government. Less than two weeks later, last Thursday, the law journal published the contents of classified information from the Security Council meeting of the state. Apparently, this leak was related to information that Minister Stropnický, when I say it with a squeaky word, chewed up in an interview in the Hospodářské noviny, and I quote: Five people will return here safely if Fajád is not released to the United States. But beware, he went on to say, It is bound. The law said that five Čech fell into an ambush prepared by Lebanon's secret service last July, which wanted to get their captured man out of the Czech Republic. Their abduction could have been prevented if the communication between Czech civilian intelligence and Military intelligence had not failed. The point of trouble, however, is that, unlike Czech civilian intelligence, military intelligence had no idea that Fajád was working for Lebanon's Secret Service, and that the Libanonec have an eminent interest in getting their man home instead of negotiating for surrender to the United States, where he is facing life imprisonment. The military defense intelligence had no idea that it had sent its man into Libya into a trap. Ladies and gentlemen, the Secret Service and the government, responsible for their management, have several embarrassments on their part. First, there was a leak from the Security Council of the State. Second, military defense intelligence has been fooled by Lebanon's secret service because it didn't have information from civilian intelligence. [[14.20 hours]] Thirdly, we obviously couldn't coordinate the whole thing with the United States, which apparently gave us source information about terrorist movements in our territory. Fourthly, the police force of the Organized Crime Detection Unit investigates in two secret services whether there has been - I stress - a deliberate - non-disclosure of information and thus a criminal offence at the level of the management of the secret services. On 14 January in the Czech Republic, the increased security measures introduced after November 13th in Paris ceased to apply. In this context, the Minister of Interior said: we do not have information that there would be any terrorist attack on the territory of the Czech Republic. Minister Herman told my colleague Martin Lanka that he had no information from the Minister of the Interior that there was a terrorist attack in the Czech Republic. He also neglected that the largest massacre in Paris had become a cultural facility. So we ask what confidence America should have with us to provide synergies about who is and is not a terrorist when all the information that they do not have comes out to us, and vice versa, information that threatens and threatens our own secret services is not passed on to the professionals. Secondly, what confidence we have in the Home Secretary's statement that there is no terrorist action in our country when there is clearly no transmission of information between secret services. Third, how to trust a government that leaks information directly from the State Security Council. This bullshit is an ad campaign for terrorists to come into a terrorist business with us, because in our country, secret services are run by a corporation that clearly doesn't have control over it, and if there's a threat to terrorists, they'll read about it in the papers. Since last week, every citizen of the Czech Republic traveling to risk areas has a price tag on his body for how much and where he can be redeemed. At the moment of the investigation, the Czech secret services are completely untrustworthy of the police authority because of the delusion of communication with the United States and at this time even inactionable. From a constitutional point of view, the control of such a large scandal does not only belong to the police authority, but should be addressed, as in any civilised country, by the special committee of inquiry of Parliament. At this point, the government is in a fundamental conflict of interest, because it must be part of the investigation. The leak of information in such a situation from the Security Council of the State is clearly part of the events that should be dealt with by this commission of inquiry, even with regard to the responsibility of the Prime Minister and ministers. The whole thing also needs to be understood as another reason to protect the Czech Republic's preemptive borders, because it is not possible to trust the Minister of the Interior or the secret services that they have credible information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u13	[[He speaks to the conclusion of Mr Černoch's speech.]] Mr. Chairman, I am very sorry... Okay, well, since you didn't suggest anything, I take it you stepped out with priority rights, because otherwise there would have been an abuse of this time. But you have a priority right, so let's handle this in this elegant way. And please Mr. Faltýnek, who is next registered, I presume on the agenda. [[Yes.]] Excellent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u14	Yes, on the agenda, thank you. Afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put the veto on the newly proposed points on the agenda of this meeting on behalf of the three MPs, specifically on behalf of the CSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u15	I assume this concerns both Mr Okamura and Mrs Černochová. Well, President Kalousek takes precedence over the Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u16	[[Off the microphone.]] I can't imagine, the Prime Minister must take precedence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u17	The Prime Minister prefers you, take advantage of it. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u18	Thank you, Mr President, to you and the Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, this House should be, according to the Constitution of the Czech Republic, the highest body of the will of the people in the Czech Republic. Can you please tell me what other larger topic exists than the fact that the security of all citizens in the Czech Republic has been compromised and objectively reduced? I understand that anything can happen. I'm the last person who would want to blame the government for her mistakes for doing this on purpose. Excuse me, when Mr. Foldyna speaks, I'd continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u19	Colleagues, colleagues, please remain calm. If you have something more fundamental than listening to President Kalousek, then transfer your discussion to the front room, settle down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u20	Thank you. I'm the last person who would suspect the government that the mistakes she's made, the failures she's committed, were deliberately committed. It's just that every one of us sometimes make mistakes in our work, and sometimes we fail. And the worst thing that can happen to us is that whoever committed this failure and, as a result, has done nothing less than jeopardize the security of citizens, of all citizens in the Czech Republic, will say no, that is not true, we have not committed any failure, everything is in the best order and the security of our citizens is sufficiently ensured. At the same time, we all know that it is not true that nothing less has happened than that the Czech government has failed in the field of the international fight against terrorism. That nothing less happened than that we could all from the media - from the media please - find out that the government of the Czech Republic is negotiating with terrorists. And not only does he negotiate with them, he doesn't even know how to hide that information. Which means the government of the Czech Republic has done nothing but encourage all the terrorist warriors in the world... I'll be on the phone with Mr. Votava... Thank you. Rather than encouraging all the terrorist warriors in the world to the popular social game of all terrorists "catch your Čech". When you catch your Čech, it pays off, the Czech government doesn't negotiate with terrorists, it's too humiliating, the Czech government automatically approaches their demands. That's what happened. Everybody knows that. And the Czech government has made game out of all our citizens abroad, especially in sensitive areas. That's what happened, that's true. And the politics of this government... When Mr. Jandák yells at his club president... Thank you. And the politics of this government, which is shameful, but perhaps she could find her excuse if the government could at least keep it a secret. But the government's policy, which is shameful, and the government cannot even conceal its shameful policy, threatens all citizens of its republic as a result. I said that what came out about, in my opinion, the totally immoral and unpardonable conduct of the Government of the Czech Republic in the case of Mr Fajád, but perhaps even in the case of Hanča and Tonča, without wanting to put the cases on the same level - I think that the example of Mr Fajád is much more alarming - that what has been revealed does not, unfortunately, threaten the safety of all citizens in the Czech Republic... When Mr Korte screams...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u21	I will ask Mr Korte to settle down and let his chairman speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u22	Thank you. Unfortunately, what the Czech Government has done does not only threaten all citizens of the Czech Republic abroad. Not only does it make them game but it also threatens the safety of all citizens in the Czech Republic. Because what the Czech government has done has fundamentally undermined the trust between the allies. If only, Prime Minister, the ministers of your government were reluctant. But I confess that when I heard the speech of the Minister of Justice explaining why he didn't hand over Mr Fajád, I got sick. If he said: I did not release Mr Fajád on the basis of the legal powers of the Czech Republic, period - I would understand. If he said, "I didn't give up Mr. Fajád because he's accused in America of slapping some little bearded legal lack of instruction for talking stupidly - that's how I would understand. But he said - and now I repeat - the Minister of Justice said: I have considered the deed that Mr Fajád is accused of, and I have decided not to publish. Did he consider him, please? I would like to point out that Mr Fajád is being charged with terrorism in the United herds. From preparing the assassination. From an illegal-weapon case. And the Czech Minister of Justice considered the deed and said that he would not give this terrorist to his closest allies! What have you done, Prime Minister? You did nothing but break the fundamental trust between the allies. And we, who seem to have approached the security situation in the Czech Republic, know well that the security of the Czech Republic stands and falls with allied commitments. That the security of citizens of the Czech Republic stands and falls at the time of the war against terrorism by passing on fast and credible intelligence information. And each of us can imagine how, after this statement by the Minister of Justice, our allies will quickly be willing to give us timely and accurate intelligence information. Because Minister Pelikán has become acquainted with the fact that he is accused of terrorism in the United States, of preparing the assassination of members of the US administration, of the arms trade that he wanted to supply to illegal terrorist structures. That's what he's accused of. That's what Minister Pelikán met and decided he wouldn't hand over the man! What do you think the answer will be? Officially, as Mr Chalupa said in several news sessions, and I had to laugh a lot because your MP Chalupa said, well, what's left for the Američan? We're allies with them, we're in the same boat with them. They're gonna have to keep working with us. You really think so? You who have an IQ above 100? What will our allies do? Well, formally, we'll be allies for them, only they won't tell us anything anymore! Because they can't risk something from the Security Council of the State, the security services, leaking information everywhere. Because they can't risk turning to us, holding a terrorist here, holding him, but then we're not giving him up! They'd rather wait for him to leave Prague for Budapest and ask the Maďar. You guys did all this. Unfortunately, the result is nothing more than a deterioration in the security situation of every citizen in the Czech Republic. All ten million. Each of us, after this dilettantism of yours, after this extraordinary, incredible international shame of yours, after this inability to care for the security of the citizens of the Czech Republic, each of us must feel less secure! Quite rightly! Because you put Czech citizens abroad at risk of hunting. And you have reduced the security of citizens of the Czech Republic in the Czech Republic because you have reduced your scandalous behaviour towards allies to intelligence that is an alpha and an omega of our security. That's what you've done! Nothing smaller. If the state has an obligation, then believe it is not more or less a rate of redistribution, pension provision, social benefits. Of course, it's his job, but the primary duty is to ensure the safety of his citizens. Here you have completely, completely, completely failed. And at the moment when we want nothing more than to include this as a point at the Chamber of Deputies' meeting - I'm going back to the beginning of my speech - as the assembly that is supposed to be the will of the people, you don't want to talk about it at all. Those people don't care about that at all. We'd like to talk about EET or kindergarten. Something you think is really important. No! We tell you, it is important for us the security of the citizens of the Czech Republic, which you have risked unprecedentedly! And if you have committed this arrogance, this arrogance, this completely incomprehensible ignorance that you have refused to discuss it at this meeting, then all we have to do is put the TOP 09 Members on the table today to request an emergency meeting with their 26 signatures. And we very much hope that the other 14 responsible will be found. You just have to answer for this, Prime Minister! Not just the Chamber of Deputies, but the entire public. And you'll be surprised: we don't even want to suffocate you for how this could have happened. It's an incredible mess, and it shouldn't have happened. But we believe that you will be able to get to that by your own institutions. But what interests us above all is not how it could happen and whose head will be cut off for it. She one green head will be replaced by a second green head and nothing will change much. But we want to hear from you, Prime Minister, what you will do to minimize the damage you have done as a government to the security of the citizens of the Czech Republic. Because you've done those! That's what happened! From now on, each of us logically must feel less secure. And you should do everything you can - you can't fix it completely - that's an irreparable shame what you've done. But you can minimize it. And we want to hear from you how you minimize it. And if we don't hear it at this proper meeting, which I consider to be the incredible arrogance of members of the government coalition, then we're just gonna have to hear it in an extraordinary meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u23	Now the Prime Minister has the floor, followed by Vice-President Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u24	Mr President, honourable Members, I think we can agree on one, whether we are in government or whether we are in opposition. The security situation in the world has deteriorated dramatically and we have been able to monitor this not only in the last two years, but especially in the last two years. When you look at what's going on east of us, the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, when you look at what's going on in North Africa, the collapsed state in Libya, when you look at the civil war in Syria, when you look at an Islamic state that exists in a large territory both Syria and Iraq, it is obvious that the security situation has deteriorated significantly. And I want to assure the entire Chamber of Deputies, not only the opposition, which has therefore presented a few fiery speeches, I want to assure the entire Chamber of Deputies that the government will bear its responsibilities and that the government will do everything possible to ensure the safety of our citizens in this degraded security environment. Perhaps this is more complex precisely because our predecessors did not make a precise forecast of the future. Those steps, which were consistently chosen year after year, did not come from a good analysis of what would happen. And now I don't want to blame the ODS or the TOP 09 that were in the government at the time, that's just what happens. You're going to make a bad prognosis about the future, and you're going to make bad decisions. But I think it's important not to keep quiet about it, especially in a situation where such flaming decisions take place. Just the governments before us weren't going for bad weather. They were going to be more and more sunshine, the sky would be cloudless, there would be no risks, we wouldn't really need a fighting army, we wouldn't need a capable secret service, and we wouldn't need the police, so a policy that didn't prepare us for the bad weather we're in now. We've had the last two years to catch up, because it's obvious we have to prepare. And because the security situation in the world has deteriorated, this Chamber of Deputies and this government and the Czech Republic will face security situations and security crises that we have not experienced in the past. We simply need to prepare ourselves to be confronted with new risks, new situations, and to be able to respond correctly and above all adequately to them. We are having a debate here, and after all, one of those speeches touched, or two acts touched the migration crisis, and we are debating whether the government is responding correctly and adequately to the migration crisis. But it is legitimate for us to also debate whether the government responds correctly and adequately to the risks posed by the Islamic State or the risks posed by the rise of terrorism in the world. I want to assure you that the government does not underestimate anything and that the government will respond adequately in all these situations. Here, in the speeches that have been made, some information has been given to the Chamber of Deputies, and it has been preconceived as if it were verified facts. I would like to ask this Chamber of Deputies, whether they are members of the opposition or the government, not to make a policy on the basis of newspaper articles, so that you do not draw conclusions on the basis of information that is, in your opinion, being objectified by being published in the newspapers or on the basis of information that appears on the Internet. It is in a number of cases of speculation, in a number of cases it is information that is not based on the truth. It is undoubtedly the government's task to ensure that no information that is subject to a classified regime escapes, and that regime is respected by all those who must respect these rules. With regard to alleged leaks and suspected leaks, I would like to inform the Chamber of Deputies that the Office of the Government has given the relevant incentives to the National Security Authority, has provided relevant incentives to the State Prosecutor, and I assume that the competent institutions will conduct an investigation and verify whether the information provided in the press and which has been reported as leaks or which has been reported as alleged information from the Security Council of the State or alleged information from the functioning of the Government, the alleged information from the service's activities, whether it is indeed such information. Because it can't be said that something is true, just because it comes out in the papers. It can't be said that classified information came out in the paper just because someone put it in this paper, that it's classified information. I would like to ask the Chamber of Deputies for the maximum degree of objectivity, the maximum possible degree of ability to rationally assess the facts available here, and I would like to say clearly and guarantee that the government will take all steps to confirm or refute this information. To either confirm that some classified information has escaped or to disprove it. And this cannot be done and conducted by any debate in the Chamber of Deputies, only the institutions that have been set up for this purpose, which is, of course, the National Security Office, and that is a system of bodies that are active in criminal proceedings. Some of the speeches that were made here questioned the decision of the Minister of Justice. I would like to state that the Minister of Justice acted in accordance with the laws of the Czech Republic. I am convinced that, as the Czech Republic, we have and must have an interest in good relations with our allies. I want to confirm clearly that we also care about good relations with the United States, and we will undoubtedly continue to develop these relations. I also want to assure you that the United States Embassy has been informed of the decision of the Minister of Justice. But I am convinced that no alliance is servility. I am convinced that no alliance can be a loss of ability to make independent decisions. The Czech Republic is a sovereign state, the Minister of Justice has acted in accordance with the laws in force of the Czech Republic and I am convinced that our partners should respect this, just as we respect their decisions that they will make in their own jurisdiction within their own sovereignty. I have no information or signals that our alliance has been disrupted or that the cooperation of the security forces has been disrupted. I would also like to ask all Members who have made or wish to make such claims, so that they can please rely on the facts, so that they do not rely on speculation or even merely on media speculation. The Czech Republic is part of the North Atlantic Alliance. We are ready to cooperate with our partners both in the fight against terrorism and in the fight against the Islamic State. And once again, as Prime Minister, I have no indication that our ability to cooperate and our close ties have been disrupted in any way. If I have mentioned new risks here, new threats to which we need to respond adequately, I am convinced that this Chamber of Deputies has institutions and has institutions which have been set up precisely to deal with the activities of secret services which have been set up precisely to ensure supervision and control of the activities of secret services, and these institutions should be clearly used for this activity. I think that this Chamber of Deputies has committees that discuss both the Ministry of Interior's agenda and the Ministry of Defence's agenda, these committees should be used. In accordance with the opinion of the three coalition clubs, I do not see any added value in the debate that should be conducted on these security issues at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. The government is ready to provide the authorities The Chamber of Deputies has all the necessary information that the Government can provide in accordance with the law, and we do not oppose the debate at the level of the competent authorities of the Chamber of Deputies, especially on the ground of those bodies in charge of the activities of secret services in the Czech Republic. At the same time, I want to confirm a commitment that you know and know about. You know that the Government has committed itself to submitting a proposal for new legislation to Parliament to ensure a second level of control of the activities of the secret services. The preparation of this legislation is underway, and I assume that in the middle of this year the government will be able to approve the amendment to the relevant law and will present a new system of strengthening the control of secret services, which has not worked in the Czech Republic in the last 25 years and which, in my view, should definitely work in the coming years. So much for the speeches that have been made.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u25	Vice-President Filip will now appear, followed by President Fiala, then President Stanjura, and so far the last is President Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u26	Thank you. Mr President, Prime Minister, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, a radio here in the Czech Republic begins with such a slogan that there are verifiable sports reports that there are unclear weather reports and incredible political stories that promise a great tomorrow. And instead of that great tomorrow, I have to say that manipulative information is really a subject that we meet every day, whether it's manipulative information from the media or from some of the players of those events. I understand that the blocking of the three parliamentary clubs will not be discussed, but I insist and ask the President of the Defence Committee, the Chairman of the Security Committee and the Chairs of the various committees to deal with what has happened here and, at the same time, if the conclusions of these committees are, and I think they will be in the same secret regime, so that the government will follow them. After all, this is not just about finding objectively reality, but also about the government deciding on the basis of the intelligence found and not risking the lives of citizens! I am not the one who believes that the information we have is being used correctly by individual ministers for the benefit of the citizens of the Czech Republic. And I am certainly not convinced that there is no leak and that those journalists who get the information will abuse this information, endanger citizens of the Czech Republic and still make themselves heroes instead of realizing that they too are responsible for what they have published. But they probably don't get it, or they don't want to. Please, after the blockage, I insist that the relevant chairmen of the two committees and committees involved in this sit down, ask for information and also discuss information with the ministers and ask them not only for answers, but also for behaviour according to what information they receive. What is happening here is an embarrassment that, unfortunately, threatens the security of the citizens of the Czech Republic. Please, stop it already!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u27	The President of the Fiala will now appear, followed by President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Prime Minister, your performance has provoked me to do this, and although I want to avoid any emotions that do not belong to this subject, let me say that I find your performance outrageous. Instead of confessing to the truly inexcusable procedure of your government, some of the members of your government, which threatens the security of the Czech Republic and the security of its citizens, you are resorting here to your usual rhetorical figure that it is all because of some governments that have ruled here in the past. I don't think your own MPs believe that anymore. How long do you intend to blame any mistake in your government for having been ruled here in the past? I mean, it's completely absurd, and I think you should stop doing that, and you should answer for what your government is doing. You're still in opposition. You're in opposition to some hypothetical historical government that's responsible for everything that's going on in this country. But I want to remind you that, unfortunately, your government has been ruling in this country for more than two years and that what we are dealing with here today is your government's responsibility and yours in particular. I'm also glad you noticed that the international security situation has deteriorated. Because when I talked about it two years ago, it was you who said, "Let's not scare the citizens." There's nothing going on here. The Czech Republic will not be involved in the fight against the Islamic State." And I could remind you of one sentence after another, they're eventually mediable. So I'm glad you know that the international situation is dangerous, but I would expect you not only to know, but that your government will behave accordingly. And unfortunately, you're not acting like one. And what I repeatedly accuse you of in foreign policy is disunity, bad signals, bad symbolic gestures, the lack of our allies, this has been fully reflected in the part of foreign policy that concerns security, which is even more important and important in terms of the interests of our citizens. And there you make the same mistakes as in foreign policy and you've made them now. But you can't shake it now. Now there is a need to draw political responsibility from this. And as I see it, Prime Minister, you are not capable. You said what we read in the media isn't true, it doesn't have to be true, we shouldn't believe it. We, Prime Minister, wanted to give you the opportunity to tell the Members here what is truthfully stated in the media, what is said falsely, what your government has done, what has been said and how it is. We wanted to give you that opportunity in a private session. You have rejected this possibility by vetoing government parties, and you yourself have deprived yourself of the opportunity to explain to Members what is not written correctly in the media and what is written falsely or falsely. But I think there's one thing you can't throw off the table and you can't downplay, and those are the statements of Secretary of Defense Martin Stropnický, who, at least, according to the media, just said there was some trade going on. That should never have happened. And I'm not researching, and I don't have enough information, and I'm not naive enough to do what really happened. This is indeed a matter of government and security forces. But I can examine, and we are also doing what individual members of the government say, because by saying what they say, by not keeping their mouth shut, by not acting responsibly, they threaten the security of Czech citizens. What the Civil Democratic Party wants you to do, and what I want you to do, is to take responsibility from this fact, from this situation, that we have politicians who have not grown up in the roles they now hold. It's not a game anymore. It's serious, it's people's lives. And if they can't keep quiet and can't deal adequately with the information they receive as members of the government, then they have nothing to do in this place. And it's up to you to tell them, and it's up to you to assume some responsibility. I don't know what could be more serious than the threat of Czech citizens, their security, that we have disturbed relations with allies. And that's not what some journalist or media is saying, that's what the American Ambassador said. And I don't even have to be able to count to five, but I have to know a little foreign policy to know that, of course, what we probably did, and I don't know if we did that, we can also disrupt relations with our other ally, Israel, on which the foreign policy of the Czech Republic is also based. So there are more question marks that are all based on one single thing, and that is the misconduct of members of your government in dealing with the information they have from the intelligence services, the security forces of the state. This is a matter that political responsibility must come from. [[15.00 hours]] And then there's one other thing that led us to request that we talk about an extraordinary point about state security. There is information in public that individual intelligence services are not coordinated, do not cooperate, even wage war against each other. I don't know if that's true. But I do know one thing. According to the Intelligence Act § 7 the Government is responsible for coordinating these services - for coordinating them. And if there are any doubts that this coordination isn't working out here, then it will not be solved by any single parliament committee that oversees Military Intelligence, the GIBS, the BIS, but it needs to be discussed together, and it needs to be discussed with the Prime Minister. If the government is responsible for coordinating these intelligence services, it is, of course, his responsibility. We here, Prime Minister, wanted to create an opportunity for you to explain to the Members and Members what is true in these media, what is not true, what political responsibility you will draw from the fact that your government's members are clearly failing, that they are threatening the security of citizens. And you refused that option. So don't complain about any previous governments, don't complain about any media information here, but do what you're supposed to do. You're supposed to coordinate the intelligence services, you're supposed to worry about the security of our citizens, you're supposed to ensure that the Security Council members don't provide information, you're supposed to ensure that if the state is already acting on sensitive security issues in some way, so that individual ministers don't give conflicting information to the public, and that doesn't signal to those who produce terrorism in the world or kidnap people in order to get a ransom, so that they don't give them instructions - look, there's some Czech Republic that will deal with you or pay you something. This is totally unacceptable. And the minister who did it, who gave such a signal, has to leave because he has no business in the government. And it's your responsibility to get him out of that government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u29	President Stanjura, after him President Laudát, also President Kováčik and Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u30	Good afternoon. I don't usually use very strong words, but I'm gonna use them today. I veto it, I don't know if clubs or club presidents, I consider them cowardly at this point. If the situation weren't so serious, she'd be ridiculous. This is about the safety of our citizens. And a priority, for example. Social democracy for this week is done by second reading a compulsory final year of kindergarten. Match the weight of the problems. I'm afraid Prime Minister Sobotka has the wrong chairs today. It's like he's not sitting on the PM's, but it's like he's sitting like he's been sitting in the opposition's for about eight years. And again, if it wasn't so serious, it's ridiculous. The Prime Minister responsible for the coordination of the secret services will publicly say, "I'm asking for an investigation"! But those are the words of the opposition. Not the one with the power. You're supposed to be investigating, not asking for an investigation. And look how we did. The intel in the press has been in since Monday. For three or four days, at least we, the citizens of the Democrats, were very reserved... [[Noise of Members from the left.]] Prime Minister, set me straight!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u31	I ask my colleagues on the left to leave the debate -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u32	The MP knows exactly which one. First of all, those dirty notes to my address, and she's still doing them out loud!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u33	So, colleague, please take your place. [[Members of social democracy who return to their bench.]] I'm gonna ask the group on the left one more time to dissolve...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u34	You may not care about the safety of our citizens. Not us! So if you don't care, get out of the O.R.! The MP knows exactly what I'm talking to. For three or four days, we've been quite restrained. We were wondering - it's a sensitive matter, classified information. It is not exactly the role in which the opposition should meet with the government. But Prime Minister, they were ministers of your government who are unable to remain silent, who are important and have to comment. And if you're accusing my colleague here of drawing on half-truth journalists, etc., Jana Černochová merely quoted the comments of your ministers. Nothing else. Nothing else. And she quoted the statement of the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Foreign Affairs. So if we're not even supposed to believe what your ministers say, then what are we supposed to believe? Why are you scared? And don't transfer that responsibility to the security forces and the police like you did. We're talking about political responsibility! And you say, you've reduced the number of policemen! You didn't prepare for a bad time! And what does that have to do with Minister Stropnickýý not being able to keep his mouth shut? So if we get 10,000 more cops, the Secretary of Defense will keep quiet? Is that how you see it? That easy? And we're talking about political responsibility! So don't tell me Minister Pelikán was acting under the law. Well, I guess that's true. None of us are filing criminal charges like many of you when they lose some kind of political duel. We're talking about political responsibility, not criminal. And that's a big difference. And if you don't mind the defense minister's statement as Prime Minister, which he said, it's tied up... And then he writes an additional - well, that's a torn sentence... But he ripped it out. And he's not gonna lie about it anymore. And instead of calling him off like any normal Western country, you're saying here, let the Military Intelligence Commission discuss it, which his party colleague happens to be running. But that's not military intelligence misconduct, that's Secretary of Defense's fault. Or let the Security Committee discuss the role of the police, which, by chance, is led by a party colleague of the Home Secretary. But we don't criticize the police, we don't criticize Military Intelligence. We criticize the government and your particular ministers. And who does the government answer to? Not to the Security Committee, not to the Military Intelligence Committee, but to the House as a whole. And you just don't want to give the facts here. It's very simple. And the reason we're voting for the strong words is because - and I have to say, the weekly doesn't have my respect for what he published on Monday. He doesn't, and he won't. I agree, and I don't know who already said that even those who publish the information have a lot of responsibility. And not that they're heroes and we're all gonna say it was in the public interest. It wasn't in the public interest to publish this! But someone was talking. From the Bureau of the Security Council of the State. And this is six people - Prime Minister Sobotka, Vice Prime Minister Babiš, Bělobrádek, Minister of Defence Stropnický, Minister of Interior Chovanec and Minister of Foreign Affairs Zaorálek. And one of them was talking! But it's probably the former government's fault because they've reduced the number of police officers. I really don't see the logic. And then we hear the sentences I've recorded in one of our popular mass sports. We didn't pay anything, and the amount doesn't match. That's not normal. And when we proposed a non-public meeting, you cowardly blocked it with the fact that Mr Chalupa will discuss it with his minister on the Military Intelligence Commission, where the rest of us, by the way, can't and do not want to go, because the commission has some sort of negotiating regime. Or the chairman of the Security Committee, Mr Váňa, will discuss this with his party colleague, the first Vice-President Chovanc. And that's supposed to calm us down. Today, in a minute, we're gonna talk about how the register of diagnosis is gonna be protected, or tomorrow we're gonna hear how the business information from the EET and the inspection report will be protected. And here online we're dealing with a secret service operation leaking information from the State Security Council, possibly. from the Bureau of the Security Council of the State. The hackers break through the Prime Minister's email page, which we strongly condemned as opposition, and I clearly told the media I wouldn't read it, foreign mail, plus stolen, as Chairman Fiala said, is simply not read, etc. But the Prime Minister just doesn't want to deal with it. And you, dear colleagues, dear colleagues from three government parties, neither do you. 'Cause we're gonna have a veto. Already this morning you warned me: Attention, there is an opposition window. And when you talk about it, you take your time. Yes, we're taking our time. Because this is more important than our bills that lie here for seven months, 12 months, 14 months. But the Prime Minister has given the initiative to investigate. Who's gonna investigate the ministers? And then just to the edge of things like how the government works. The kidnapping in Lebanon took place about two months after the U.S. Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued a warning and was published by all representative offices, including the US representative office in the Czech Republic, in which it warned American citizens about the trip to Lebanon, where, in addition to terrorist attacks, it also threatens to kidnap citizens of Western countries. And when did we take that warning and inform our citizens? After the kidnapping, about two months later. [[15.10 hours]] That's one of the things we liked to discuss in a private meeting. But the Prime Minister, co-workers and colleagues, the rest of you, you're afraid of it! But that's not gonna solve it! What are we gonna know about Secret Service next? What other minister can't keep his mouth shut and be smart? And you pretend you don't mind? We don't care!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u35	The TOP 09 has informed me that there will be a change of speaker, so if President Kováčik does not protest that President Kalousek will take the place of President Laudát, we would allow him to do so and then President Kováčik will be given the floor and then Minister Herman will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u36	Thank you. I ask my colleague Kováčik to understand. Piece of cake. Thank you. [[With a smile. Chairman Kováčik agrees.]] I wanted to respond to the Prime Minister, who called on us to prove by some evidence that, after what happened, the level of information of the Czech Republic would be reduced as an allied state and the security of the citizens of the Czech Republic would be more threatened. Are you serious about this question, Prime Minister? Are you serious? Or is this the last desperate defense? Do you really want to tell anyone that such things are communicated in writing and with a round stamp? The only evidence I can give you here, but it's really strong, is your own judgment as Prime Minister of a Member State of the European Union and of a Member State of the North Atlantic Alliance. If you, as Prime Minister of the Czech Government, find that the very sensitive information that you pass on to your allies and whose disclosure may endanger the security of your country's citizens is leaking from somewhere, your ally's government is unable to conceal the information for its inability, so what are you going to do? Based on the responsibility you have as Prime Minister. Well, you stop giving them the information without sending it to them in writing with a round stamp. You just do it as a necessary self-defense measure. You say to yourself, "If those people in the country I'm providing this information to are so insane that they can't hide them and provide them to every terrorist on sight, I won't give them the information." And I'm gonna keep smiling at you in front of the cameras, keep telling you you're my ally. I'm just not gonna tell you anything. This is how every responsible prime minister behaves. I have no doubt that you would do the same. The problem is, you're in the position of a man who's not being told anything because he can't risk leaking it. You are unable to conceal the information communicated by six people on the Bureau of the Security Council of the State. You're not capable of hiding anything. Now I don't want to criticize... [[Ambassador Okamura is on the phone.]] Look, when the second-generation immigrant gets off the phone, I'll continue. [[Ambassador Okamura closed the call.]] Thank you, Mr Okamura, through Mr President. You're not capable of hiding anything. If the Czech government has already committed that moral hazard - I don't want to be a judge now, those decisions are very difficult - if the Czech government has already committed that moral hazard, that it has negotiated with terrorists and paid terrorists, how could it have allowed all the terrorists around the world to learn about it so that they can embark on a very effective "hunting their Čech" action? How could you allow it to endanger the safety of every citizen who crosses our borders? Don't tell me you need any evidence for that. These are simply the logical consequences of your dilettantism, your mistakes and your inability to defend the security of Czech citizens. And I'm asking now if there's really anything more important at this point on the political scene than the fact that the government has reduced the security of Czech citizens. It doesn't matter if it was her fault or not. He's responsible. Where's your first Vice-President? In the last 14 days, he's been expressing himself completely about everything that wasn't about him at all. Since you released Fajád, there's no sign of him. What is Babiš's first Deputy Prime Minister's position on this? And because the information flows as it flows, we know what his position was, and we know that it was extremely dangerous for citizens of the Czech Republic. Then have him rise up and tell him to defend him here. [[The noise in the hall.]] He can only say populist sentences? And you can only say alibi sentences, Prime Minister? So where is the government that gets up and says "citizens, we guarantee your safety"? After you totally put her in danger. After each of us must be afraid to go abroad. After your Home Secretary - I said a month ago that when the Home Secretary says there are no terrorist attacks, I said as a leader of the opposition party: I believe my government when he says there are no terrorist attacks, there is no threat. Well, when you say it tomorrow, I'm not gonna trust you anymore, because these statements come from information that the Allied intelligence services are passing on, and after what you've done here, no one's gonna give you any more information. We're in information isolation because all the countries around us are sane enough to give you and your gossipers that you have on the Security Council of State, no one gave any information because they're gonna talk it out the next day. [[Noise in the hall. Member Jandak is shouting something. Mr. Foldyna laughs loudly at it.]] It's just real. That's right. That's the reality we're facing right now that's threatening the safety of each and every one of us. And you don't want to talk about it, Prime Minister. You really think you can stick your head in the sand and say "nothing's wrong"? When a bomb goes off somewhere, say, "It couldn't have been prevented"? Oh, yeah. If you hadn't broken our allies' obligations, if you hadn't disgusted all our allies, if your Minister of Justice hadn't done that crazy arrogance: I considered the deed. Play the press conference, ladies and gentlemen. This is absolutely unbelievable. The man, frankly, I dare not publicly judge him, his professional qualities, however strongly I am convinced of them, but whatever the qualities, the man looked into the camera from the height of his 156 cm and 35 years and said: I considered the deed and I decided not to give him up. Which we all know is that he's being charged with terrorism in the United States, the preparation of the assassination of civil servants, the illegal arms trade, the connection to Hezbollah, and that he's probably also an FSB agent. We know that. There are official documents for that. And the Minister of the Government of the Czech Republic, one of the closest allies in the whole North Atlantic Alliance - this is not about sovereignty, it is about its own security, because the Alliance primarily ensures our security, Prime Minister - he will say: I have considered it. And this man, who was accused of preparing the assassination of our allies' employees, of preparing the sale of weapons against our allies and the support of terrorism - I considered the act to the extent that I decided not to release him to the country in which he was accused of these acts. And you really think after this scandalous statement, someone's gonna give us some information that they're gonna take us seriously? And you don't want to discuss it with the Chamber of Deputies! [[15.20 hours]] Prime Minister, public budgets are my area of expertise. Make the deficit a hundred billion larger. I'll be concerned, but I won't take it as a threat to myself, my family and my neighbors. What you have done now is a threat to the life, safety of each of us, my children, my neighbours, all of the ten million citizens of the Czech Republic! The first single priority that this state has to protect the security of each of us has been completely devalued, in this duty you have failed! And you have to answer for it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u37	President Kováčik will now appear, the Minister of Culture will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u38	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, dear government, colleagues, I will take this much more simply than the previous speakers. First of all, I would like to point out that everyone knows that history did not begin in the autumn of 2013, and I would like to say that the sigh of President Fiala, how much longer you will refer to the past, how many years, how much longer you will blame your mistakes on us, what we once ruled here - I would like to assure President Fiala that for a very long time. We know for ourselves that this can be endured for quite a long time, and that, for example, your governments have referred to the past for years that have ruled, and their own mistakes, evidently their own misdemeanors, evidently their own misdemeanors, have blamed the evil communists, as they say. But that's just a sigh for starters that he's just pulling a saw every minute, and what we've been putting up with, now you too. Seriously. I am convinced that the security threat, the risk we are talking about here, is really very serious. That the threat to the security of citizens, families, let's say the public interest of the Czech Republic is indeed one of the greatest that we have seen in recent years. And bad language says that if we weren't in trouble, we don't even know that we have some secret services, and because troubles are quite common, it reminds us that they actually exist every moment. I am deeply convinced that there is a reason to discuss the matter, but just as the Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip indicated in his speech. I think that even if the Chamber of Deputies acted more secretly, and I was prepared to support the proposal, the security risks, i.e. the risk of disclosure of anything, could increase even more. And what my colleague Filip has indicated as a proposal for a solution, I support this at this point, and I think that this is the basis for which the competent authorities, in particular the Czech Government, responsible for this section, can act almost entirely. Prime Minister, through the President, it is your political responsibility now, as you will act. bezesporu. The fact that you're building your procedures on the ruins of what's been here, because the operation of the secret services wasn't born in autumn 2013, how they work, how it's established, how it's done, and what the responsibility of the last government is for it, but now you're in charge, now it's up to you, as they say, hunchback, or yours, as they say, neck. I would like to ask you to draw that political responsibility. Both ministers, in my opinion, modestly, have actually committed themselves, and I will say this very gently, with certain indiscretions or indiscretions. They may have spoken more than would have been worth, and I think that if you had not brought up the political responsibility after considering all that is going on here, it would have been honorable and manly if the Ministers of Justice and Defence had done so themselves to this government and to this House and to the people of the Czech Republic. I think the situation is so serious that such a step is really appropriate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u39	Now Minister Herman has the floor, who is the last speaker with priority rights so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues, I want to address us with a request. And on purpose, I say the wording on us, because the fact that I am currently Minister of Culture is only important at the moment in the sense that I have the right to speak here under the right of priority. It is not important whether I am a member of the coalition or of the opposition. We are all here because we have gained the trust of citizens, of specific people who trust us. There is a consensus between us that the subject we are talking about here is a very serious subject. The instability zone is creepy close to our borders, perhaps nearest since 1968. I am asking all of us not to use us, not to say not to abuse us, but to use this serious issue on short-term political interests and politics. This issue is so serious that we should be able to join forces in the interests of this country, its security and its citizens. I'm sure there have been mistakes that need to be confessed to, but in the first place, please, let us be able to join forces, because further atomization and injury to society is exactly what helps those we certainly do not want to help. The country is worth it. Let us try to ensure that the environment is safe and that the people who elected us have confidence in us that we are able to meet on such serious issues for a substantive discussion and join forces to find better solutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u41	Mr. Stanjura's performance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u42	Minister of Culture, through - although I would not have had to through, but through the President. Nice words. Nice words! I'd sign them myself. So let's say the whole thing. Let us prove to our citizens who believe that we are able to meet and discuss such serious issues seriously. When we proposed it, among other things, your political party vetoed it! So was it a government criticism, or who? So make this progress in the government that we will meet, as we suggested, for example, tomorrow afternoon at a private meeting and we will have serious debate. And we're not gonna be the ones who, one minute after the private talks are over, are gonna be giving smart conversations and saying, we've learned this or that. It's the ministers of your government you're sitting in. Not us. So nice words, but you have to look at your own side first, because you vetoed it, then coalition partners, and if you're willing to debate it, we're ready. We designed it, you and your colleagues rejected it. So don't call us "let's talk together" if you don't want to!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u43	I don't register any more applications with priority rights, in which case I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. I'll read two more apologies. Mr Černý from 14.30 p.m. for health reasons and Mr Vilímec for personal reasons from 15.45. There were two proposals in the debate on the agenda - one from Mr Okamura, the other from Mrs Černochová, but the veto of the three MPs was raised on both of them, so we cannot vote on them. The only thing left for us to vote is the original proposal, as it was submitted by the leadership, or gremé, of the Chamber of Deputies. It's quite a complex proposal. I will ask whether we can deal with it with one vote or whether there is an objection. This is not the case, so we will only vote once on the whole proposal, as I presented it at the beginning of the day. I guess all those who want to vote have arrived. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees with the proposal made from the political grémia to press the button and lift the year. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is 155. It's got 165 in it, 145 in it, versus 3. This proposal was adopted. So we dealt with the agenda of the meeting. I'll pass the proceedings and we'll proceed with point 16.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-000-000.u44	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue, as has already been said, with the point
