ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-001-001.u1	1. The draft law amending Act No. 159/2006 Coll., on Conflict of Interest, as amended, and other related laws /German press 564/12 - returned by the Senate The Senate returned the bill with amendments; we received its resolution as press 564/13. I welcome Senator Zdeňka Hamousová and I ask that Minister Jiří Dienstbier speak for the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and for the amendments tabled. I ask the House for peace and again I ask all Members who wish to discuss this outside the Chamber! And that goes for the presidents of the commission of inquiry. Ambassador! [[Mr Blazek ends the debate with Mr Richard Dolejš.]] Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-001-001.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, I think there is no point in detailing the fundamental principles of the law here. Just really, really, really short. In addition to the electronic register notice strengthening the control, notification at the beginning of the exercise of the function, increased resolution of sanctions The House supplemented some other important points by amendments and unfortunately those changes were not reflected consistently by those amendments. The Senate responded by adopting several legislative technical proposals which do not change the substance of the law in substance. With only one exception, and that is to shift efficiency. Since the register of notifications must be created on the basis of a public contract that the Ministry of Justice must award, the effectiveness of the Act was shifted from 1 January next year to 1 September next year, which is really no change, because, anyway, the Ministry of Justice would not have created the information system before. With the fact that basically everything else in terms of efficiency remained the same with a slight deviation in Sections 4b and 4c, where it is not fixed on 1 January but on the 15th day following the publication of the law, which is a plus minus a few days essentially the same. So there's basically no change here either. This means that the proposal is essentially returned to the Senate in more or less the same version. In fact, there have been no changes, legislative technical problems have been removed and the effectiveness will allow the Ministry of Justice to create a genuinely functional system on the date of the law's effectiveness. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-001-001.u3	Thank you, Minister. I will ask if the rapporteurs want to comment on the amendments tabled by the Senate. First of all, Mr Vozka. It's not like that. Mrs. Kovářová? Not either. Nor is Mr Plíšek. In that case, I am opening the debate and I ask the Senator to speak first and, of course, those who apply. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-001-001.u4	Good afternoon, Mr President, honourable members of the government, honourable House, ladies and gentlemen. Let me introduce you to the Senate resolution of the 28th meeting held on 19 October 2016, when the Senate adopted resolution number 551, which dares to return to the Chamber of Deputies the draft law of the Chamber of Deputies No. 159/2006 Coll., on Conflict of Interest, as amended by the amendments. The biller explained the amendments adopted very precisely and clearly. Let me repeat their reasoning once again. [[15.00 hours]] The reasoning for Senate amendments is this. (a) Points 1 to 15 and 18 respectively. These are mostly legislative technical changes and are related to the fact that Act No. 302/2016 Coll., amending the Act on Association in Political Parties and in Political Movements. In its fifth part, the Act on Conflict of Interest was amended so that the President and a member of the Office for the Management of Political Parties and Political Movements in Section 2 (2) were included among the public officials subject to the rules on conflict of interest. 1 new point (j). In this context, the conflict of interest law has also been amended at seven other sites by amending points to ensure that internal references to the relevant provisions correspond to the amendment made. The law has already become effective on the day of its publication. The Senate, therefore, did not respond to the situation described, so in many cases the outline refers to provisions other than those envisaged by the appellant, thereby causing undesirable material shifts. The amendments correct the matter or correct incorrect legislative technical guidelines. (b) Further justification for purely practical character. The draft law provides for the entry into force on 1 January 2017. At present, this efficiency seems unrealistic because an electronic register of notifications needs to be established and it is also necessary to familiarise all the entities concerned with their newly established responsibilities, including judges and prosecutors, who were included in the Act on Conflict of Interest by amendments in the Chamber of Deputies. The amendments therefore consist of a shift in effectiveness to 1 September 2017, together with the implementation of changes in the transitional provisions and the extension of the division of efficiency as well as the prohibitions and restrictions contained in Sections 4b and 4c, which is a prohibition of participation in procurement procedures and a ban on granting subsidies. Honored House, you can see that the amendments are purely practical and factual. I therefore ask you to consider them, then to accept the amendments as the Senate is proposing to you. Thank you for your consideration, support and attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-001-001.u5	Thank you. Next in the debate will be President Faltýnek and then Mr Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-001-001.u6	Good afternoon, Mr President, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Let me at least make a few comments on this bill. I know that it is almost unnecessary to speak, and after all, I have spoken on this subject many times. I know that you are determined, in essence, to approve this law tailored to one person, whether in his Senate or in the House version. However, let me at least have a look at this law. I do not want to repeat myself, I have already made a lot of specific arguments on this subject in the past, but nevertheless allow me to briefly recapitulate. I won't keep you long. It is not my intention to orb or delay the adoption of this law at all. The conflict of interest law was one of our government's priorities and was to bring about the transparency of political property statements. The whole government agreed on this, and this is how the law arrived at the Chamber of Deputies. Instead, as ODS President Petr Fiala said, and I respect him for having the courage to publish it on his Twitter account, he became actually Lex Babiš, the law of one man. You know, it's a shame, and I've said it here several times that the former government coalition, or then opposition social democracy, for example in the last parliamentary term, didn't propose a similar law to its politicians-businessmen sitting in the government. We should at least have a valid Lex Bárta or Lex Schwarzenberg or Řebíček or... whatever, there were a lot of ministers sitting there in that government that were entrepreneurs, and we could have had a problem solved. And it would be before the elections and everyone who ran, even the voters, that would be clear what the rules are, the rules of the game for that next term. It would be clear to everyone that if you want to go into politics and you have a business that you've been building your whole life, or God forbid you own a medium, you have to get rid of that property, otherwise you can't be a minister. If you don't, you have no right to go into politics, you have no right to become a minister. And from my point of view, this is absurd: to exclude from the politics of a man who spent his whole life building something, employing people, paying taxes. But so be it. If this absurd law were to apply, it would be clear to everyone what they're up to. But why are we changing the rules during the game and for one person? The argument that we are setting rules for the next members of the government will not stand. Perhaps, with the exception of the proposal of Mr Chvojka, who forbids the possession of the media to new members of the government, future members of the government and other politicians. But Mr Plíšek's proposals aim at the current member of the government who went into politics under the existing rules. And this proposal says we'll change the rules during your mandate, and you decide whether you want to be a minister or not. Decide, you who ran for election, you got, I feel, 18,000 preferential votes. The whole nation knew what property you own, what taxes you pay, you employ about 30,000 people. Decide now whether you will continue to be Minister of Finance and give up your property or not, and your companies will immediately - immediately! - immediately - excluded from the possibility of competing for public contracts and will not be able to apply for subsidies. They will not be able to compete for public contracts where the only criterion is price, the resulting price of the competition. They will not be able to apply for subsidies which all farmers throughout Europe receive regardless of who owns these farms. Do you not find it absurd and contrary to the rules of the European Union to adopt a law that excludes companies employing thousands of people paying taxes in the Czech Republic, from the possibility to apply and obtain subsidies? During this discussion, it has been mentioned several times that this ban does not concern so-called claim subsidies. But our rule of law does not know the concept of claim and non-claim subsidies. Moreover, most legal interpretations, including that of the Parliamentary Institute, which, of course, is not a dogma and it is their opinion, say that the interpretation can only be given by the court. It's a trial! And there is no judicate, and there is no precedent for that at the moment. [[15.10 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, now that we're dealing with a law for one person and for one company, let me have a few words about subsidies. Mr. Babiš and his companies are constantly being accused, including some colleagues here, that they live on subsidies, that subsidies are higher than paid taxes, that companies hold business with the state and such nonsense. But reality is different. Every Czech farmer, and this can be verified, if the Minister of Agriculture were sitting here with us, would surely confirm it to us, has the same subsidy from the European Union per hectare, which is about CZK 5,500 per hectare, for all alike. Agrofert has a total of 110,000 hectares in rent and approximately 20,000 hectares in ownership, which means that it will pay more than half of this amount to landowners on rent from this so-called entitlement subsidy. This is how Agrofert companies pay about 350 miles a year. CZK for rent of land to owners. We are also still hearing that Agrofert has significantly increased the use of subsidies in recent years in connection with Mr Babiš's involvement in the government. Who would be interested, let's not delay others, I have the exact numbers here, who would really like to argue with this argument, so I would love to share with him the specific numbers, however it is true. The growth of subsidies for Agrofert exists and has two reasons. First, the area of farmland is growing, which means that when I farm on a larger area than in the past, logically, I get more money per hectare. The second reason is that environmental investments have been made in recent years, especially in certain chemicals, which have been approved by the previous governments on the basis of the European Union's request in terms of environmental and environmental requirements. Other subsidies to which Mr Babiš's own company is entitled under this law are investment subsidies for farmers and processors for the development of new technologies and capacities, especially in livestock production, where new jobs are created. Let me conclude with a few specific figures on the subsidies and payment of taxes by Agrofert Group. For ten years from 2006 to 2015, Agrofert or his corporate tax companies paid a sum of 5 billion to the state budget. 730 miles. 880 thousand. and in subsidies from the budget of the Czech Republic, the company received an amount of 2 billion. 270 miles. From the budget of the European Union, these companies received an amount of 4.6 billion. and in the Czech Republic, Agrofertu paid a sum of 22.8 billion to the state budget on income taxes and health and social insurance for 10 years. Crowns. These are just dry numbers, but please, the next time we discuss in the media what is going on with the subsidies and who lives at the expense of who to use really relevant and verified numbers. Finally, allow me to express the last sentence that this law, and it is the majority opinion of our membership club, whether it is a version of the Senate or the House, is unconstitutional from our point of view, contrary to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms and, last but not least, as I have already said in the case of subsidies, as well as to the rules of the common agricultural policy of the European Union. So many on my part a few notes on this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. Two factual points - Mr Kučera and then President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-001-001.u8	Hello, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to touch on President Faltýnek's speech very briefly with more or less two brief remarks. The first is, as Lex Babiš mentioned here and mentioned, so I would like to point out that there is also lex Schwarzenberg, which he forgot here, which is really a few decades ago, if President Faltýnek wanted to cancel it, then of course he has the option. The second point is that I have seen your movement, Mr President Faltýnek, through Mr President, as one that goes into politics to straighten the business environment. You put a heavy stone on the smallest ones' back, which they carry today in the form of 1. 12. e-booking sales, you have introduced VAT control reports, financial authorities have increased their checks to the maximum, that can probably be verified by everyone in the company, if they are doing business, that almost doesn't break doors, you control VAT, you control subsidies, you check audits, you send audits to audits, and you transfer all that burden to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. I think we should all measure the same, which means the biggest, and I think that's an effort to straighten out this business environment. So I believe that this law will pass and we will straighten the business environment not only for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, but also for the largest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-001-001.u9	Chairman Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just have a polite question about President Faltýnek. I listened with interest to the data from Agrofert's balance sheet and was not clear to me, and therefore I want to ask whether the President acted as Chairman of the ANO Parliamentary Club or as a member of Agrofert's Board of Directors. If it was like one, as chairman of the club YES, then I admit I didn't understand it. And if he was a member of Agrofert's board of directors, I wanted to give him a friendly heads-up that he mixed up his background. This is the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-001-001.u11	Now with priority rights, the Minister and then Mr Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-001-001.u12	Mr President, Members of Parliament, Mr Kalousek was a little ahead of me because I wanted to draw attention to the same thing that Mr Faltýnek is a member of the board of directors of Agrofert. It is spicy because we are currently discussing the conflict of interest law, which in the current version states in § 3 para. If there is a conflict of public interest with personal interest, the public official shall not give priority to his personal interest over the interests which he would be obliged to promote and defend as a public official. It is true that the existing text does not have a definition of what is a personal interest. Mr Faltýnek obviously did not assess this as his personal interest; according to the new text, the evaluation would be absolutely clear. I take it that, not today, not the last time during the discussion here, he did not at least announce his conflict of interest, not even before the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-001-001.u13	Mr. Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-001-001.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm going to get my rather boring contribution into the fresh debate that's been going on here. I will probably not even use the word Babiš once as part of my contribution, not once will I say Agrofert, I will try to stick to strictly legal text. There's a novel about a conflict of interest on the board, and I've been here for several times, and for several times, I'm going to try to somehow turn your attention to the individual provisions of the law. [[15.20 hours]] First of all, I'd like to return briefly to the way we passed the law here. I picked up different names for our process, that it was elemental, sometimes confusing, that after the vote, some of us didn't even know what they had voted on. I, of course, was present. It is true that the voting procedure has been slightly modified, however, given that it was up to me, so I will not comment on it, I will not rely on it, I think we knew what we were voting on. However, in this context, one of the main findings of the Constitutional soda relating to the violation of procedural rules can be quoted by means of a substantive vote by the Chamber of Deputies on amendments. This is a constitutional finding of 77 of 2006, dated February 2007, which states that compliance with the principles of clarity, clarity and clarity of the rule of law is one of the components of the rule of law as well as respect for democratic principles in the legislative process. I will take a short turn on why I am perhaps expressing myself more closely on this proposal. I don't want to be obsessed either, I don't want to delay the vote that's going to happen anyway, but with my honored colleagues, I recently attended some debate at the law school where I, too. They said how it is that we are not familiar with your arguments in advance. And since this is a returned motion from the Senate, where it is no longer possible to anticipate a committee hearing, the only place I have left is here. Therefore, I would like to recapitulate all my objections to this text. I have a few leaves here, maybe I'll cross over partially, I can shorten the contribution, expand it, depending on how I can impress you. I hope I can amuse you all. I therefore insist that the process of adopting the amendment was so vivid and confused that Members, at least some of them, were not always quite sure in what form the standard was approved. This is evidenced by the individual statements that appeared in the media right after the amendment was approved, when some Members presented the amendment so that it does not interfere with the legal status of public officials who perform their duties, although the opposite was true. The same confusion was the statement in which the group of addressees adopted by the standard was directed. Will some of you, who have mentioned slightly ridiculously here, remember how we, for YES, can know that our chairman will still be in the next government? And why are we fighting for him when it's about the next government? And, hey, the next day, it turns out that Section 4b and 4c take effect immediately with the basic body of the bill, the amendment. I was not present at the Senate vote, but I have only information that some senators on the ground have also stated that they consider the amendment partly unconstitutional, and yet they did not hesitate to vote, which is undoubtedly contrary to the promise they made as senators. An effort to establish adequate transitional provisions was then declared publicly, but this did not happen in relation to the provisions of Sections 4b and 4c. Again, the question is whether the senators knew exactly what they were voting for. The truth is, there was an answer in the Senate to the problems of efficiency. It was the amendment by Senator Hamousová, who united the effectiveness of the law, which, following the adoption of the amendment, would actually apply to the next members of the government. But apparently, even in the Senate, there was no political will to adopt the standard in some, say, coalically acceptable format, because the assignment was completely different. The next item of my speech is, of course, the most discussed section 4a. Apparently the vast majority of you are already familiar with e.g. with an analysis of the Parliamentary Institute. I would like to quote only one paragraph, which summarises all the issues. Paragraph 4a also applies to Members, Senators and other categories of public officials pursuant to Section 2 (a). 1 of the Law. The possibility of using these categories to limit the free competition of political forces is very limited in a democratic state. For this reason, we believe that the intention to avoid the threat of free competition by political forces by banning the operation of the media cannot apply to these other factors, because the intention, namely the purpose, cannot be met by limiting these factors. For this reason, this part of the proposal should be considered constitutionally incompatible. I am therefore convinced that the vast majority, perhaps all, will know in the vote on this proposal what they are raising their hand for and will know that Section 4a is very highly likely to be contrary to the Constitution of the Czech Republic. That's right. Of course, I also respect that the only authority in this country that can pronounce this conclusion on constitutionality or unconstitutionality is the Constitutional Court. Friends, we are not free of charge Members and Members of the Chamber of Deputies. We should not make the Constitutional Court a third chamber, we should not blindly refer to it, so let the Constitutional Court. How many times have we heard from different mouths that the House is the supreme legislative body, that the House is a sovereign. And we should also decide on this land with full knowledge and conscience that we will adopt a text that will be consistent with the Constitution and not contrary to it. We have put our hand in this matter, and within the coalition board, a proposal has been made to form a proposal together, which will be constitutionally conformal, acceptable to all involved, and which we would adopt in some accelerated regime. Obviously, I again lack the political will to deal with something like this. So much for point 4a. Getting to point 4b and 4c. Unfortunately, on these points too, I cannot say that there are no risks and that this is a good legal text. Once again, I would quote only one paragraph which does not draw any conclusion, but which should interest you and concerns public procurement. It follows from the provisions of Section 4b that a commercial company may not submit an offer. Furthermore, it follows that if the company has submitted an offer, the contracting authority must exclude it. What happens if a trading company submits an offer, after its submission, ownership relationships change? What happens if a trading company submits an offer in order, the contractual relationship is concluded, and when it is concluded, it is objectively established that there is a person prohibited? Nor is it resolved what will happen if ownership changes after the conclusion of the contractual relationship, but before the contract is concluded. Is it necessary to withdraw from the contractual relationship? If the change of ownership occurs between the time of the tender and the conclusion of the contract, is the public authority responsible for finding that the contract is invalid? It is unclear whether a trading company will have an obligation to report changes in the meantime. [[It's very busy in the hall.]] I therefore conclude that proportionality in a narrower sense, which was an instrument to assess the effect of the proposal on the companies concerned, is an opinion that the text of the proposal shows significant shortcomings which limit the commercial companies more than would be necessary in the perfect legislative implementation of the prohibition. In addition, the text imposes obligations on public authorities which would not have occurred at all if the ban had been perfectly implemented. It is not possible to state with certainty whether these shortcomings are achieving constitutional non-compliance. However, we believe that, in a possible review, the Constitutional Court would call into question the shortcomings in the concept and legislative technology. So much purely in legal terms for § b a § c. Next up... I see you're intrigued, so let's keep going, just a little while longer. Maybe it'll make him listen better. [[15.30 hours]] And we're getting to a point that concerns legitimate expectations. I'm gonna flip... In the meantime, we'll need more peace in the hall... [[Still a lot of noise.]] Okay, we'll continue anyway. I said at the beginning that I wouldn't use the name of our chairman or his holding company, but I just want to say... In the provisions of Sections 4b and 4c, a sufficient period of legisvacation was not approved to prevent it from being an intervention in legitimate expectations and rights acquired in good faith. The two provisions are to take effect on the 15th day following the date of their publication in the event of the adoption of the Senate version. Only at the time the amendment was signed by the President will it be clear whether and in what form the amendment was approved. The existing public officials referred to in Article 2 (2) (a) shall: Article 4 (1) (a) (c) they have a conflict of interest law if they wish to avoid injury on the part of companies in which they, or persons controlled by them, own a share of at least 25 per cent of their participation, have only a few days to dispose of the relevant shares in potentially affected companies. There can be no doubt that such a procedure is unrealistic, especially in larger groups. Since the Czech Republic is a democratic legal state, the public officials to whom the announced changes to the law are to apply have entered into the performance of their duties under a certain legal condition and with confidence in it. During their functional, virtually. However, there is a change in this legal situation during the term of office. A change in the form of an amendment puts the functionaries concerned in a situation in which they are forced to decide whether, for at least the remainder of their duties, they give up part, in some cases substantial, of their property rights in a given company, or whether they continue to retain those rights and thereby cause damage to that company in the form of an impossibility of obtaining a subsidy, investment incentive or public procurement, or otherwise. resign from his public office. The amendment thus acts de facto retrospectively when it now sanctions the exercise in the past of the acquired ownership of a public official and the simultaneous exercise of the right to participate in public administration, i.e. the exercise of a public office. It is, in my view, a legitimate question whether the public officials concerned would have even taken up their current duties if the same rules envisaged by this amendment had been applied at the time of their accession. So much for this point. [[Constantly a lot of noise in the hall.]] I've got six more points. I see I haven't completely exhausted some of my colleagues yet. [[with a smile]] I would perhaps go back to conflicting with the law of the European Union. I don't think we've discussed this part enough, basically in almost any way. If I am factual and based only on specific provisions, § 4b, in our opinion, contradicts Directive No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amendment also prohibits participation by companies from other Member States if the Czech public official or the person controlled by it has a qualified ownership participation. These companies should also be excluded from the procurement procedure under this amendment. It also contradicts the fact that the list of reasons for excluding participants from the procurement procedure provided for in the abovementioned Directives is exhaustive and that Member States are not entitled to extend those reasons further. The issue of avoiding conflicts of interest in the award of public contracts is explicitly regulated in the Directives and, in accordance with the case law of the EU Court of Justice, is dealt with in such a way that it is assessed on the basis of the circumstances of a specific contract. This Directive considers a conflict of interest to be a situation in which the interests of persons involved in the procurement procedure or having or could have an impact on the outcome of the procurement procedure, endanger their impartiality or independence in connection with the procurement procedure. However, the prohibition of participation in procurement procedures contained in the amendment, namely § 4c, assumes a priori that the public official is in a position of conflict of interest in all procurement procedures in which he does not participate, respectively. they do not even know about them, including the procurement of private contracting authorities, subsidized and sectoral contracting entities. The provisions in Section 4c then illegally interfere with the system of granting subsidies from the budget of the European Union. According to Section 3 of Law 218/2000 on budgetary rules as amended, all state budget funds, state financial assets or national fund granted to legal or natural persons for a specified purpose are subsidies under the legislation governing the budgetary rules. Unfortunately, this includes the funds the Czech Republic receives from the European Union to provide subsidies to the EU Structural Funds and others. The rules for their payment are laid down in the law of the European Union and the documents accompanying it, and the Czech Republic is not entitled to change these rules deliberately. Public contracts. The limitation of the possibility of companies owned by a member of the government to participate in public procurement is contrary to European public procurement law. This is apparent from the case-law of the Court of Justice, in particular from the Michaniki AE. I would just say the final sentence: the Court held that such a measure is disproportionate, because then these companies do not have the opportunity to prove that there is no conflict of interest... Here is expected to be an overall potential conflict of interest, which is contrary to the European Union's view and contrary to the protection of free competition, because if we protect competition in public procurement, the competition is defined by having to have the chance to participate in the competition as much as possible. And we here rule out some of the companies on the basis of criteria that are not given by the law of the European Union and are our national invention. We are therefore very much at risk of having a trial against us. If the law on public procurement were adopted and contained provisions contrary to European law, the Czech Republic is in danger of proceedings before the EU Court of Justice, and this procedure may be initiated by both the European Commission in the form of infringement, but also directly damaged supplier. If there is a conflict with EU law in such proceedings, the Czech Republic is at risk of granting a direct monetary penalty, limiting the possibility to draw European subsidies and the need to compensate suppliers who have been harmed by such a provision. Finally, I would ask if you had the strength to think again about whether, as legislators, we can really resolve this point in a way other than by adopting a standard that will be condemned from the outset to filing a motion to abolish part of the Constitutional Court's law, or rather. for immediate amendment. And the last sentence. If you've already decided to vote in favour of the law, because when babiš is falling, the splinters fly, the constitution doesn't build, I'd like you to at least raise your hands for the Senate version, which poses a minor problem for the state apparatus and especially for the Ministry of Justice. I have not read the next five points based on the eyes of some Members. [[with a smile]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. I note the factual remark of my colleague Vozka, if that is the case. Isn't she a colleague of mine? He's reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, a colleague, Vondráček, presented in his opening part a part, say, from a poll among Members after the end of the vote. And I cannot in any way agree with the view that the vote was chaotic or that the Members did not know what they were voting on. In the opening part, we therefore agreed on a procedure, albeit changed, which was very complicated, and subsequently I was always reading the content of the vote. So if someone subsequently didn't know what he was voting on, he's suing himself for lack of preparation or voting. I had so much to say today, because it could happen that this statement will become a general truth, and that is in no way the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-001-001.u17	Thank you. With priority right, please go to the microphone of the head of the club ANO Jaroslav Faltýnek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-001-001.u18	Thank you for the floor. Allow me, Madam Vice-President, to respond to the two identical speeches made by Minister Dienstbier and President Kalousek. You see, gentlemen, through Madam Vice-President, I am proud to have worked for Agrofert and Mr Babiš for 15 years. What are you proud of, Mr Kalousek, through Madam President? What's left of you? Have you ever worked at a company? Have you ever worked outside of politics? And you're proud of what's left of you? The parachutes, the corpses, the time, the pandury, is that what you're proud of? And I would ask Minister Dienstbier only through Madam President if he ever worked anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-001-001.u19	Thank you. No one is going into the debate anymore, so I am ending the debate. I wonder if there is interest in the final words - the Minister? That's right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-001-001.u20	I assumed, Madam Vice-President, that Mr Faltýnek, when he applied, was to report a conflict of interest under the law, but it did not. Okay. Apparently, he still hasn't assessed it as a conflict of interest, the fact that he's fighting for Agrofert while sitting on his board. However, I would like to assure Mr. Faltýnek that most of my professional life, unlike him, I did not live as a politician. He's been almost professionally in politics for about 17 years. I only had four or five, and I worked for a living in law enforcement. However, more generally, the bill. I think that in the last vote here in the House, or at least I want to believe it, Members knew what amendments they were voting for, what their content was and what their impact was. When negotiating in the Senate, the Senate tried to intervene, in substance, at least, in what was approved here in the Chamber of Deputies. Therefore, as I have already pointed out in the introductory words, the Senate does not essentially present any substantive changes to the Chamber of Deputies for consideration. So he respected the will of the House. As a representative of the petitioner, I would very much like this bill to be passed, because it brings about the very necessary changes in the area of protection against conflicts of interest that I was talking about, whether it's the register, one single register instead of 6.5 thousand registration points, and just more precise rules including the more accurate definition of conflict of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-001-001.u21	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I thank the Minister for his final word. I ask whether they want to comment on the Senate's amendments, or in their final words, as well as the rapporteurs. Mr. Vozka? Mrs. Věra Kovářová? Or Mr Martin Plíšek? Not interested? If no one is interested in the final words of the rapporteurs, we shall proceed to the vote in accordance with Section 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. First, I'm going to pull you all out and call our colleagues from the lobby. Please sign up with your voting cards. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 159/2006 Coll., on Conflict of Interest, as amended, and other related laws, pursuant to House Press 564/12, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to House Press 564©/13. I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 20. 174 Members and Members were registered, for 125, against 42. The motion was accepted. I note that the draft law, as approved by the Senate, has been approved. I thank the Minister and the Senator. Before we go to the next point, I'll read the apologies. Mr Petr Kudela apologizes today from 15 to 16.30 because of negotiations outside the Chamber of Deputies, Mrs Věra Kovářová apologizes today from 16 o'clock for health reasons. The next item is:
