ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-002-229.u1	229. Proposal for the action of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in the Republic of Iraq in support of the fight against the so-called Islamic State / House printing 933/ The submitted proposal will be introduced gradually by Minister of Defence Martin Stropnickýý and, where appropriate, Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-002-229.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, together with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, submit a proposal for approval on the operation of forces and means of the Defence Department in the Republic of Iraq in support of the fight against the so-called Islamic State, which the government approved on 5 October of this year. The object of the proposal is the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in the Republic of Iraq in the number of up to 30 persons from the date of approval of the proposal by the Parliament of the Czech Republic until 31 December 2018. The mission will be carried out on the basis of the invitation of the Government of the Republic of Iraq to guarantee the legal status of members of the Ministry of Defence Department. In the first phase for a period of six months without rotation, the field surgical team will be active in Iraq as of December 2016 with the task of treating wounded Iraqi and coalition soldiers. This team will be composed of about 17 people and will operate in the assembly of the field hospital of the U.S. Navy approximately 70 km south of Mosul. All medical material, as well as logistical support necessary for the operation of the surgical team, including its protection, shall be provided by the American Party. In the second phase of 2017, after June 2017, we expect to send instructors to Iraq to train Iraqi military specialists. Currently we are discussing instructors of training from the army of engineers. The conditions for the performance of instructors will depend on the specific requirements of the Iraqi Party. They will depend, among other things, on the development of the fight against Daeš and the current needs of the Iraqi army. The maximum funding for the entire mission, that is to say until the end of 2018, is estimated to be approximately 160 million. CZK and will be drawn from the budget chapter of the Ministry of Defence. This is a maximalistic calculation that includes all conceivable eventualities and covers the maximum number of soldiers posted, i.e. 30, for the maximum period. In fact, the costs will be significantly lower and, with the current option of deploying soldiers, they should be around 62 miles. Crowns. As regards the legal status of our soldiers, their activities, invitations and exemptions from jurisdiction, they are in a solution with the Iraqi party in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At the same time, technical arrangements are being prepared with the American SensCom (?) which will address the details of the medical team's activities within the American Field Hospital. Finally, I would like to say that the deployment of a surgical team and instructors for training will strengthen the involvement of the Czech Republic in the fight against Daeš within the global coalition. The ongoing stabilisation of the region will also contribute to reducing migratory pressures in Europe. Together with the already active aviation advisory team, newly deployed members of the defence department will support the Czech Republic's efforts to stabilise and subsequently develop cooperation with Iraq. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-002-229.u3	Thank you, Minister. I don't see the Secretary of State here, he's not present. This House Press has discussed the Defence Committee, whose resolution has been delivered to you as House Press 933/1. I now ask the rapporteur of this committee, Mr Karel Černý, to inform us of the committee's deliberations and to present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-002-229.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear Members of the Government, Colleagues and Colleagues, the Committee on Defence for its 35th meeting on 19 October 2016 adopted a resolution on the Proposal for the Action of Forces and Resources of the Ministry of Defence in the Republic of Iraq in support of the fight against the so-called Islamic State, House Press No 933. Committee on Defence of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening speech of the Minister of Defence Mgr Martin Stropnický, Chief of General Staff of the Army of the Czech Republic Army General . Josef Bečvář, Mr Karel Černý's report, and following the debate, adopted a resolution which has two parts to be voted on separately, because, for item one, the call for 101 Members is needed. I will make this resolution in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-002-229.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate, which was the first to be heard by Mrs Jana Černochová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-002-229.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I am sorry that it has become such a dark tradition of this government that neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister of Foreign Affairs is present here during the discussion of sending our soldiers abroad. He's here, with all due respect, only the Minister of Defence. I find it completely scandalous. And I really think it's the Prime Minister of this country, if we're sending soldiers to a place like Iraq, he should sit here, listen to the debate, and he should tell us something. And don't hide after the election. We haven't actually seen him since Tuesday. We are discussing a material called Proposition on the presence of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in the Republic of Iraq in support of the fight against the so-called Islamic State. I am glad that the Czech Republic is contributing to the fight against the terrorist organization of the so-called Islamic State. I am pleased that we can help the Iraqi Government to ensure control of its territory and increase stability in such an explosive area. The wider Middle East is located in a complicated and conflicting period. The sectarian violence, the rivalry of regional powers, civil wars, the collapse of states, and the rampant extremism and terrorism are the accompanying phenomena of the transformation that is taking place in the region. This might not seem to concern us, but especially last year, and the refugee wave heading for Europe, the terrorist attacks in France and Belgium, and the geopolitical game of Russia in Syria may convince everyone that what happens in the Middle East has a direct impact on us. The Czech Republic was involved in Iraq more than ten years ago. We withdrew and later our allies withdrew. This happened before it was appropriate, and we are still reaping the corrupt fruits of those decisions. That is why I support, like the Civil Democratic Party, the help of the Czech Republic Iraq, the posting of our soldiers. Indeed, to support foreign operations, the ODS is completely consistent, because we believe that it is better to fight evil beyond our borders than to face it in our own territory. I therefore fully support our government in this. What bothers me and what I must mention is, however, the approach of the Ministry of Defence, or the Government, to us Members. For several times, we are in a situation where the relevant committees are convened quickly and exceptionally, when the discussion of such important points in plenary is included in a matter of urgency, when the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic does not bother to sit here on his ass! What's more, when the content changes, dear colleagues and colleagues. In this particular case, yesterday on the Defence Committee, we learned that doctors will gradually become engineers, and unfortunately, the Minister of Defence automatically assumes that we will all pass through silence. I personally see this as a circumvention of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. And I absolutely wouldn't mind if we got - in two months' time, when it's clear what the Mosul situation will be, where Iraq will move - if we could get a proposal here to send more soldiers to Iraq, those engineers. But giving a blank check, giving a mandate by the end of 2018, not only to the surgical team, but also to the engineers after sending pilots there in the summer, doesn't really seem wise to me. It bothers me that we're not playing a fair game, but we're still counting on our approval, kvorum - 129. [[logged in on the light board]] I'm curious, respectable members of the government coalition, how do you put it together without the ODS and without the TOP 09, the 101 votes. You won't! You need our votes. So please treat us appropriately and give us the information you may have in the government coalition, but we don't, and I'm learning them yesterday at 8:00 a.m. on the defense committee. It bothers me that this is done with the salami method. I really belong to the responsible members of the Defence Committee, which studies materials, I care about the security of our country, and it bothers me that you're putting us on the line. As I was saying, it hasn't been that long since we approved the deployment of our air force members to Iraq. Then we should have approved the deployment of our doctors. This has been mentioned since August. Yes, we all know that. We're all counting on it. And now you're adding engineers to this package. What's next? Chemists? In conclusion, I will support your proposal. But I would very much like you to be able to introduce us to the comprehensive material relating to the engagement of the Czech Republic in Iraq. How long do you expect our soldiers to operate in Iraq? Where will they work in Iraq, in what numbers and what expertise? What is the objective and what are the criteria for assessing the achievement of the objective? I was a little surprised by the Minister's speech - yes, I know it will be under American command - but that American command is the U.S. Navy! So I'm not quite sure about the distance from the sea, but I'm assuming the U.S. Navy isn't operating in the desert. So I'd really like to know more about it. Those are the questions I want answers to, because in the finale, we can send an entire army somewhere, and I find that hard to accept.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-002-229.u7	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Foldyna is another duly signed up for the general debate. [[Member Stanjura is reporting for priority rights.]] Excuse me, Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. He's so stealthy, I didn't notice him. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-002-229.u8	Thank you for the floor. I come up with a procedural proposal, and I'm not happy about it. That point is important. There's 129 of us, empty benches, I'd say half empty. I'm a fan of the government. And we need to get 101 votes. According to my information - and I have repeatedly protested - the Committee on European Affairs has met, our members are on the committee. They would like to vote in favour of this proposal and add votes to 101. But they can't. And it is the responsibility, in particular, of the heads of government clubs, of whether they will vote in favour of 101 with such a low participation. I propose to suspend this for ten minutes, to ask the President of the European Committee or the Committee on European Affairs to close its negotiations so that the members of the Committee on European Affairs can participate in the debate and, in particular, vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-002-229.u9	Would you like me to take that as a procedural motion for a ten-minute interruption? [[Yes.]] It is a procedural proposal that I will put to the vote. I'm shutting you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. Initiating a vote to suspend this point for 10 minutes. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 109 vote. 124 Members and Members are registered, for 100, against 3. The motion was accepted. I'm interrupting the House meeting until 11:28 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-002-229.u10	Good afternoon, the pause has passed on the basis of President Stanjura's procedural proposal. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mr Jaroslav Foldyna. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-002-229.u11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, I have listened very carefully to what Mrs Černochová has said here, and I would also ask you all to agree with the Czech Parliament on the participation of our soldiers in Iraq. I consider it absolutely necessary. I agree that we cannot wait, it is better to fight where the conflict is than to expect the conflict to spread to the Czech Republic or to Europe. I would just like to remind you that the Czech Parliament probably did not think this way in 2003, when it agreed to the participation of Czech soldiers, when it did not protest that the United States attacked Iraq without the UN mandate in 2003, which was an aggression that since then the crisis that we have to deal with today has arisen, and we must send our soldiers to fight Iraq. I totally agree with that, and next time we should avoid the hasty decisions that took place in 2003. Yes, this is the turning point of what we got ourselves into today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-002-229.u12	Thank you, Mr Foldyn. Next up, Mr. Mr. Černý. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-002-229.u13	Hello, Mr Vice-President, Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Let me just make a few comments. First, I would like to reassure the coalition, regardless of the number in which it is located, that we are ready to raise our hand for the Ministry of Defence's proposal, but that does not mean that we have no reservations. The reservations are basically the same as they have already been, and I firmly believe that the Minister is aware that this was not the first time. Let me just remind you that we've already had to call a committee to deal with things that could be dealt with in a normal regime, and if you imagine that this is a pretty serious matter, because there's nothing more dangerous today than the area where we're sending these people, then the government came together on the fifth. On the fifth, she accepted the material that was passed on to us. Parliament, the House and the Senate, made it in three days. Three days later, we were able to discuss this and prepare for today's meeting. If it weren't for the desperate condition that both the House and Senate resolutions had to be absolutely identical, you would probably have heard some other proposals for a vote here and we would have tabled essentially the same resolution, but there would have been a little different terms. A little different, I mean, at least a year. But that's not the point. Now we are in a situation that if we do not want to hinder the preparation process, and we know that these people are to be posted in a relatively short period of time, so we do not want to complicate life, but I would like the Ministry of Defence to note that this is definitely not the way to proceed in the future and that generosity and helpfulness have its limits. So I just want to ask you to really pay attention to what was said on the committee yesterday, after all, and especially in relation to the fact that the time we give you some kind of authority is really quite long, and the information that justifies us is almost zero, and the development of this situation can be extremely dramatic. So please keep us informed by the Ministry about the experience of the mission that is already there, but from November onwards with the deployment of the surgical team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-002-229.u14	I thank Mr Černý. Mr Ivan Gabal, Mr Benešík, duly signed in after him. I'll read the note. Today, Mr Martin Lank apologizes for today's meeting, and Mr Milan Šarapatka apologizes until 14:00 for working reasons; the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec apologizes for today's meeting until 13:00 for working reasons; Mr Vítězslav Jandák apologises for today's and tomorrow's work-related negotiations; President Václav Votava apologises today from 14:30 for personal reasons; Mrs Zelienková apologises for today's meeting for health reasons; and Mrs Miloslava Rutová apologises today from 16.00 for personal reasons. Thank you. Mr Gabal's point of view, please. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-002-229.u15	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to add a few factual contexts and aspects of yesterday's defence committee discussion. One. We need to be aware that we are actually deploying a medical team into a war zone and into a combat area where perhaps we are finally getting to the final part of operations against the Islamic State. For this reason, I believe that the relatively open mandate makes great sense in the fact that, at the moment when the combat operations are over and the stabilisation and reconstruction of the territory begins, there will be a situation where there will be a need to change, the harvest work and the civilian deployment of doctors and all this. This means that I very much support the format of how the mandate is formulated. None of us know how long the Mosul combat operation will last and how quickly it will stabilize behind it. We need to realise that 1.5 million people who are there and will be exposed to combat activities will be extremely dependent on what we provide from the outside in terms of their medical support claims. That's why I'm appealing to the D.O.D. to count on interference from that military combat environment towards the civilian. We tried it successfully in Basra years ago, it didn't turn out perfectly, because we couldn't bear it. I hope we're better now. I also want to thank the Ministry of Defence officials for their very detailed cooperation before the committee meeting. Anyone who was interested and wanted to consult and ask questions could. Anyone who wasn't interested came to the committee and wondered. And the last one. I would like the Ministry of Defence to design our participation in the stabilisation and post-conflict activities of aid and operations in an area that has controlled the Islamic State in the long term. [[Time warning]] Thank you. I will, of course, support the posting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-002-229.u16	I'm sorry. With a point of fact, Mrs Černochová. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-002-229.u17	I'm so sorry, but I have to respond to my colleague Gabal. Because I don't really pick up materials on the defense committee that I don't communicate with the secretary of the defense committee that I don't want information, I don't study them. This information about the expansion of the surgical team by the engineers was nowhere! If you've heard it, colleagues from the government coalition, from the mouth of the Minister of Defense somewhere internally, I can't rule it out. But I didn't know anything like that! And that seems unfair to me. We are all standing here before the decision on how the Czech Republic will continue to deploy troops in foreign operations. We had a two-year mandate here recently, even as rapporteur for the proposal. I have no problem sending soldiers on missions. I think that is exactly what the Army of the Czech Republic is helping in training when we are no longer able to provide them with the training at home. But what bothers me is that we're being pulled by someone here and that we're being lied to. And that someone here isn't giving us the information for purpose. That's what bothers me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-002-229.u18	Thank you, ma'am. Now, President Benešík, impatiently standing in anticipation. Please, Mr. Ambassador, it's yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-002-229.u19	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you will not notice that I am speaking out of order, and I hope that the Vice-President will not interrupt me. I only have the need, on the basis of a communication from the members of the Committee on European Affairs, to tell you that today's interruption, which led to a delay in discussing this point, was due to the negotiations of the Committee on European Affairs, because we had a meeting before the European Council, when we discussed the Prime Minister's mandate before the European Council. It is, of course, a matter that we cannot influence in time, it has come to this day. That's why we're very sorry that this is how it came about, that we weren't able to plan it any other way. But that's just vis maior, we can't do that. So we're sorry about that. The fact that today's meeting was suspended was not that we didn't work. We have worked, we have delayed you, but there is no other way to do this, because the European Council is not governed by the House of Deputies. If you have any complaints, please contact Mr. Tusek, who is providing the diary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-002-229.u20	Thank you, Prime Minister. This has been the last one entered into the general debate so far. If no one checks in... [[The Minister is reporting for the final word.]] Minister, you will have the final word if you wish, but I must first say that I am ending the debate. So I am ending the general debate and now the final word of the Minister, or the rapporteur, as the case may be. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-002-229.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like, first of all, to thank those speeches that have been expressed in a positive sense, that is, in the sense of some support, some awareness of the context and position, or the proposal as presented here, because I am deeply convinced that this is our duty and, secondly, it is also the best that we can do in the broader sense of defending and protecting our citizens. As for the time issue that has been raised critically, I don't... I'm really the last person who has a tendency to lecture. But there's a war in Iraq, please. And the war has escalated in the last few days. There is a giant operation, the result of which, peripetia, the length of which no one is able to estimate responsibly at the moment, of course, or even determine. On the contrary, I think I would like to thank all those of you who have made it possible for the relatively rapid procedure and that we have demonstrated the ability of the state as an establishment of a relatively rapid response. Let me just say that the inclusion of material on the government's agenda is not under the authority of the Minister of Defence. So it wasn't discussed in the date that was mentioned here. And then, of course, I would like to thank you for the quick response of the Chamber of Deputies Committee. And I would also like to thank the committee responsible and the entire Senate plenary, where the matter was discussed smoothly, correctly, but seriously at the same time. So I don't know if it's necessary to put up with such a negative report card in a situation that, on the contrary, has demonstrated a certain capacity for a solid and rapid response. We also don't think, or a number of us, experience with a security situation this high and a way of reacting to it. I would also like to highlight in this the share of the army that was able to respond to this, which, of course, had to prepare the matter without knowing whether it would be approved or not, because the preparatory work cannot be carried out afterwards. There is, of course, communication with the Iraqi side. We have been asked to do this in August, the medical contingent, and since then, there has been a lively correspondence with the Iraqi government, where we repeatedly have the Iraqi party's response, which needs it and welcomes our help, so on the other hand, its flexibility or efficiency, I dare say, is not entirely Swiss. As far as yesterday's debate on the Defence Committee of the Chamber of Deputies is concerned, I would like to thank you for it. I think there was a rather detailed and certainly useful debate. I would also like to respond to this because there have been some suggestions or suggestions. We spoke seriously about them with General Bečvář yesterday. And the proposals that fell there, whether it was a possible participation of a psychologist or, say, a share of military intelligence, we will be able to implement this in this regard. In addition, it was also said that it would be good to keep us informed - what was said here and before - to keep the committee informed about how the situation would develop, which, as I say, no one is able to pinpoint in advance. There was also a word about it having different peripetia, phases, civilian dimensions, etc. But that's, uh, sorry, the reason we wanted the mandate to be wider. And thank you for letting one of your colleagues call it quits. I dare to resist lying. I'm not lying! I say that absolutely categorically. And the fact that this is a medical team was the first reaction to the situation. The fact that we need a flexible mandate, because I emphasise once again that it can change. The medical team is ready by the end of June, please. And if we were to start thinking about what to do in March, April, the situation in Mosul could be diametrically different from the current one. At this point, we have at least some volume of space that we will be able to fill in the most efficient and useful way, and we will not have to bother this House with it, too. As far as engineers are concerned, as mentioned here, these are instructors, please. Let's not imagine participating in a ground operation in any way. As far as the United States Navy is concerned, I would just like to make a small remark that the scope of this elite force of the United States Army is certainly not limited to working at sea, but it is often placed in the most difficult and challenging sections of various conflicts. It's about 230,000 soldiers, and they're being deployed where it's figuratively said to be burning. So in that sense, I wouldn't dare question their reliability performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-002-229.u22	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-002-229.u23	Just a technical note. I do not know if the microphones are weak, or the Minister spoke so quietly, it was almost not heard, but because there is no debate anymore, first of all, I would like to say that my colleague Černochová said that Mr Gabal made a false statement, and not you, Minister. No need to defend yourself. You weren't accused of lying. The debate and the criticism were directed at someone other than you. But that's not the point. The important thing is, Jana Černochová has long pointed out, and she is right, in our opinion, that we are balancing at the edge of the Constitution in the terms of this approved mandate. We have repeatedly called for this to be resolved. And I want to say for us citizens' democrats that we are ready to deal with this, to argue, whether it's still on the edge or beyond, it's gone, so it's clear that it's within the valid Constitution of the Czech Republic. You know we have long-term support for mission broadcasts. That one single case then turned out that we were right when we questioned the effectiveness of sending a small unit, and then it turned out that it was justified to question or legitimate concern that it would not be successful. But otherwise, it's totally fine. So I just want us to take the positive part of this debate, so if there's a little bit of criticism, we don't make it the main problem of the debate. Let us really concentrate on having a professional debate in this area, whether we need to change the Constitution and how to make the polemics, whether it is still okay or not, unnecessary to make it clear that this is in line with the Constitution of the Czech Republic, the approval of such missions that we will be voting on in a moment's time. And I'm just reminding you, we're voting in favour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-002-229.u24	Thank you, Prime Minister. We will proceed to a detailed debate. I ask who is reporting for a detailed debate. If no one's reporting, I'm ending the debate in detail. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. [[They're not interested.]] I will now ask the rapporteur, because our resolution has two points to always make this point, and then I will put it to a vote. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-002-229.u25	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. "First, the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees with the action of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in the Republic of Iraq in support of the fight against the so-called Islamic State in the period from the date of approval by Parliament of the Czech Republic until 31 December 2018 in total up to 30 persons." In this case it is necessary to set thevorum 101.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-002-229.u26	I thank the rapporteur for reading the motion for a resolution. Please, set up for volume 101. It's already done. We will vote on the proposal for the first part of the resolution as read by the rapporteur. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Who's in? Who's against it? It's a 110 vote. 152 Members and Members are registered, for 134, against none. I'm sorry I didn't get you checked out, but it doesn't really matter at the count 101. Please, Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-002-229.u27	I'm not questioning anything, I'm just saying it's not true. If one of his colleagues isn't present and doesn't want to get high for being delayed, it wouldn't have happened at check-out. That's the only reason the treaty was, of course, given in advance. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-002-229.u28	I admit, I'm sorry, that's true. If you do not question the vote, we will not vote on it again. I ask the rapporteur for the second part of the resolution. Paragraph 2 of the resolution, as the case may be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-002-229.u29	Thank you. Second part of the resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic about the presence of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in the Republic of Iraq in 2016, by 30 June 2017 at the latest, of the presence of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in the Republic of Iraq in 2017, by 30 June 2018, and by 30 June 2019 at the latest."
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-002-229.u30	Thank you. I hereby remove you all. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the second paragraph of the resolution, as the rapporteur has read it now. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of this proposal, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 111 vote. 148 Members and Members are registered, for 146, against none. The motion was accepted. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. Vote? Please. Mr. Plíšek, please, Mr. Flipper.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-002-229.u31	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I've been waiting for the vote to be signed off on the last vote and I haven't had a chance to vote. I'm on drugs because I'm late, but I voted in favour. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-002-229.u32	Mr. Ambassador Klučka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-002-229.u33	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I was so eager to see to it that there was an A-list on the medical team's leave, and I forgot to vote in the 110 vote, while I was logged in. So I was up for it, just for the stew record. No one can suspect me of this, that it wouldn't be true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-002-229.u34	I thank Mr Klučka. We will proceed to the next point in our negotiations, which is the point
