ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-003-029.u1	29. Proposal by Members Petr Fiala, Zbyněk Stanjura, Pavel Blažek, Jana Černochová and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 96/1993 Coll., on Building Savings and State Support for Building Savings and Supplementary Act of the Czech National Council No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended by the Czech National Council Act No. 35/1993 Coll. House print 425/ - second reading Mr Petr Fiala shall present the application for the appellant. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-003-029.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 12 March last year, the Civil Democratic Party proposed to amend the provisions of Section 5 para. 12 Building Savings Act. Our aim was to make a simple change so that the act of termination of the construction savings contract would be included in the ordinary property management business for which no court decision is necessary. Let me just briefly remind you that in 2014, the problem first occurred when, as a result of the judicial decision, the construction savings banks began to refuse without the consent of the court despite the mutual consent of the parents to pay the balances from the construction savings account with the fact that they did not want to be jointly responsible for the outcome of the rest. Proposal The citizens' democratic parties had a clear goal so that no court decision would have to be taken instead of a parent's decision, and formally our proposal was very simple. He reckoned in inserting one word, the word "termination" between activities considered to be the routine management of children's property, which must be established or amended. I also recall that in November last year, the draft law, as part of the second reading of votes across the political parties, was ordered to the constitutionally legal committee as a guarantee committee and the deadline for discussion was shortened to 30 days. On 14 January this year, the Constitutional Committee approved a compromise amendment with the following wording. I quote: "The termination of a contract for a minor shall be considered a normal matter in the management of the child's assets if it occurs after the expiry of the period laid down in Section 12 (1). Article 4 (1) (a) (a); If all its legal representatives disagree with the termination of the contract for the minor, the consent of the court shall be required.'; So much compromise proposal. It is quite clear what it means - that the contract can be terminated after six years and there will be no need for a court ruling on the condition that all legal representatives, i.e. parents, agree, are protected on the one hand by the rights of the child and, on the other hand, parents are entitled to have this savings without the conditions of a judicial decision. Those six years are there to avoid the obligation to pay back the state contribution. I can say as an applicant that we consider this text of the compromise proposal acceptable and are ready to support it. I would like to appreciate that a compromise position has been found across the political parties, which will help by an estimate of over 650 thousand families. I just hope that the consensus we have found here so far in this matter will link us both to the second and third readings and the final vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-003-029.u3	I thank President Petr Fial and also optimistically believe in a consensus. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. The Committee's resolution has been delivered as House prints 425/2 and 3. I now ask the rapporteur of Mr Vlastimil Vozka's constitutional committee to inform us of the committee's discussion and to justify any amendments. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-003-029.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I certify that at its 50th meeting on 14 January 2016, the Constitutional Legal Committee discussed the proposal of Members Petr Fiala, Zbyněk Stanjura, Pavel Blažek, Jana Černochová and others to issue the Act amending Act No. 96/1993 Coll., on Building Savings and State Support for Building Savings and Supplementary Act of the Czech National Council No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended by the Czech National Council Act No. 35/1993 Coll., print 425. The Constitutional Legal Committee, after the interruption and subsequent discussion and conciliation procedure which took place in this matter, which was not entirely simple, finally adopted a resolution, which was already quoted by the petitioner Mr Petr Fiala here. The Constitutional Legal Committee, by this resolution 169, recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament that the proposal be approved as follows: Parliament has agreed on this law of the Czech Republic: Article 2 (1) (a) I'm changing the Building Savings Act. In Article 5 of Law No. 96/1993 Coll., on Building Savings and State Support for Building Savings and Supplementary Act of the Czech National Council No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, etc., as I quoted at the outset, therefore proposes to include a new paragraph. 13, which reads: "The termination of a contract for a minor shall be regarded as a normal matter for the management of the child's assets if it occurs after the expiry of the period laid down in Article 12 (1). Article 4 (1) (a) (a); If all its legal representatives disagree with the termination of the contract for the minor, the consent of the court shall be required.'; Article 2 (1) (a) II Efficacy. This law shall take effect on the day of its publication. Two. He has instructed the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Three. He authorised the Committee's rapporteur, as always, to report on the results of the discussions at the meeting of the Constitutional Legal Committee to the Chamber of Deputies. Four. He authorised the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Office, to make possible legislative technical adjustments. You have this resolution in materials like printing 425/3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-003-029.u5	I thank the rapporteur for his report and open a general debate which Mr Jeroným Tejc was the first to join. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-003-029.u6	Hello, Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues. First of all, let me thank the previous speakers for summing up the content of the law and add a few information which led the constitutionally legal committee to support this proposal. And I stress not because it is an opposition or coalition proposal, but because the proposal, in our opinion, meets the requirements for helping citizens of the Czech Republic. The first thing is why we have to deal with this proposal. To a large extent, what has happened is due to the adoption of a new Civil Code. Here I would like to stress that none of today's coalition parties voted for the new Civil Code. But it is not only a question of the wording that has changed, but also an approach, both for some institutions and children, when some of them even sued their parents or sued directly the insurance company, that they paid the appropriate amount not to them as legitimate, but paid it to their parents wrongly, and then this savings bank had to meet this child again. These are marginal cases, but they have led to savings banks deciding to go the way that will be most comfortable for them, especially the safest, i.e. began to demand the consent of the court in accordance with the new Civil Code for these matters. Of course, it is a thing that is probably logical on the one hand, on the other hand, which brings great problems to specific parents. I don't know which one of you had the chance to go to court in your entire life. Perhaps there will be a number of people among us who will have to head there someday. I was lucky enough to spend quite a lot of time in court as an attorney. It's nothing extraordinarily unpleasant or new to me. But I don't think it's nice for someone who's never been to court to answer for what he does with the resources he usually does - not in all cases, of course, but usually - saves the baby himself. This means that we want to prevent situations that would lead to someone saving up their child and then, after completing the savings, they must obtain the consent of the court in order for the funds to be paid out to the child. I don't think anyone was questioning or questioning the fact that the funds that are being saved belong to the child. It is, of course, the parent's decision whether or not to save the child, and it should be stressed that, regardless of the change in this arrangement, the funds that will be collected will always be the property of the child, because the parents will give him the funds when they are saved. That means, it's not like we're changing the basic principle with this standard. The practice in the courts at present, as we have learned, is very different. Some courts require information on how parents intend to dispose of the funds and, on that basis, either issue consent or do not issue consent. They usually do. But they no longer control how the funds were actually handled, so it is to a large extent a formal decision that will not protect the child, at least not in practice. Then there are courts, as we have learned, which still ask after the decision to prove how the funds have been handled, whether in accordance with the decision. But the question is whether this is even in accordance with the law and whether they have the right to do so. So, even if it's definitely a useful and correct practice, the question is, does he have any support in the law? The proposal went through a big debate. We didn't want to spill the baby with the bathtub in quotation marks, i.e. We did not want to adopt an adjustment that would be completely liberal and basically abolish the protection of children. We said that two basic conditions should be met - and they have already been appointed. That's the compromise proposal, that is. it is not possible to enter that period of six years, because if we entered it, for example. My parents canceled the savings within six years before the basic time was up, then the child would be cut short because there would be no state aid. So we're not entering that time. And the second thing was to debate who had to agree to it. I know the solution, that it's both parents, doesn't just bring benefits. There may be a situation such as: saves grandparents, albeit with the consent of parents, because they, as legal representatives, give consent, and grandparents would not agree to such as. the funds have been selected to cancel the contract, and both parents will decide. There are cases where, for example, parents don't live together, one parent saves, but the consent of both parents would be needed to choose. I understand this is an unpleasant situation, but I am resisting situations where one parent would save and the other would decide to cancel. And unfortunately, as we have been informed, it is not entirely easy in this matter to find out at least from savings banks who are actually the one who saves and who would give consent. So I guess it wouldn't be possible to make a provision that the one he saves gives his consent. The provision that is here, of course, has its advantages. I would like to point out that at this point, according to the statistics, as I have seen, 3.5 million contracts are concluded and some 350 to 400,000 are concluded each year. It's about half the number that used to be ten years ago, but it's still a big number. And, of course, there will also be a number of individual cases, and it can happen that there will actually be harassment of people who will eventually have to go to court, for example. The other parent will not want to agree for any proxy reasons. But we think 90, maybe 95 percent of the problems will be eliminated. And one last thing. The criticism of the representatives of the Ministry of Finance was that this solution is non-systemic, and I agree that it does not concern other financial products, that we only deal with this in building savings. The answer that sounded on the Constitutional Legal Committee was - yes, we are aware that it is unsystemic, but there are so many contracts, so many parents, so many courts, that it certainly pays to make a certain step aside here for the sake of some common sense. So in this sense, I think that the proposal put forward by the ODS meets those requirements after the adjustment that we made in the constitutional committee. I have no illusions that we would vote on the party key today. I'm sure I'll leave everyone with a chance to hear the arguments that are still going on here and make a decision based on their best knowledge and conscience. I'm sure we're not going to take out all the problems, but I think we're going to make life easier for people who really have no reason to go to court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-003-029.u7	Thank you, Mr Tejc. Mr Václav Votava, who was duly registered by Mr Vondráček, has now made a point of fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-003-029.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I believe that the amendment of the Constitutional Legal Committee is reasonable, yes, in order to be able to terminate the contract in the case of minors, to select - under certain conditions - a condition of six years, if I have understood correctly, a condition of consent of legal representatives. I think he's okay. It has my support, too. I just want a note. We accepted in the case of the third pension pillar, and at that time we referred to the construction savings, the fact that parents could conclude a contract and change a contract without the consent of the court. So the question is whether a similar provision regarding building savings, even if it sounds weird, is supplementary pension savings or old-fashioned insurance, just the third pillar, if not to project it into this so-called. the third pillar. That may be a comment on the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-003-029.u9	I thank Mr Votav. Mr Vondráček, now duly applied for, followed by Mr Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-003-029.u10	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would like to thank all my previous speakers for summing up the issue. We had a very nice debate on the Constitutional Legal Committee on this matter. It rarely happens that basically everyone was right, and we've been trying to find a solution. I would probably fit into a factual point, because almost everything has been said. My bad. I'll know next time. I'm supposed to report in time and immediately from the scene. I'll be smarter next time. However, there were more or less arguments for, I also voted in favour. I think the compromise is reasonable. I'll tell you why. I consider it appropriate that at least briefly the arguments, say, the other party, the arguments of the Minister of Justice, who is not here and who would certainly speak. At the beginning of the original proposal, the dissenting position of the government was clearly supported by the fact that the abolition of the construction savings contract is not a normal legal act within the meaning of the law or in the sense of the settled caselaw of the higher courts. It has always been an interest to protect the legitimate interests of the child. Remind me one of my fellow Tejc's performances. He basically contained the old Civil Code. It wasn't a new one. However, with the adoption of the new Civil Code, the courts have started to behave differently and have introduced a different practice, and we now have to deal with the situation. The Ministry of Justice is right when it claims that this solution, which we have found, is not entirely systemic, undermines a certain doctrine of protection of the child's interest contained in the new Civil Code. It's fair for you to know that the point is that we're treating basically only one product of the financial market for children. There are other ways to save the baby. But the important thing is that building savings are by far the most widespread, they are mass, they are used by everyone, and they are met by almost everyone in everyday life. Of course, I also argued at the IDA, for a normal person who uses building savings as he should, saves his child, then saves him, runs out of time and wants to really use it to improve the housing of a child and in life had nothing to do with the court, so it's really stressful to come to court. You have to stand by the box and testify there, according to the Rules of Procedure. Not everyone is used to it, and if the judge is really what he is, he can enjoy you there. Moreover, it is two proceedings - it is a procedure for the provision of a conflicting guardian and then the procedure for the authorisation of the legal act itself. So if we are compromising on a certain doctrine for which the Minister of Justice has fought, which we should not be doing as Members, especially those who have suffered from legal education, we should try to avoid these steps, then if we reach any compromises, then we should ask who it is for the benefit of and whether it will seriously harm something. And the answer is that it really helps thousands of parents, thousands of underage children. And if it hurts anyone? I believe that the way we tried to write it or stylize it, that it really is not harmful legislation and that it will not endanger the child. For this reason, therefore, we have stepped forward to disrupting the system and, in order to help people and to meet a little social demand, we have voted unanimously in support of this amendment. And I would also like to ask you, colleagues, personally in voting to support this compromise and this amendment to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-003-029.u11	Thank you, Mr Vondráček. Mr Miroslav Opálka, now with a factual remark. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-003-029.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, I would like to point out that this is not just a legal dimension. He's also the dimension of protecting public finances. You know, when you have a good financial advisor, he told you in your pension insurance whether she's also insured grandmother and grandpa and mother-in-law and that you can actually get state support through them. I, of course, am in favour of being supported through building savings and the possibility of providing for living in the future, but in any case, there are cases happening here, and it will spread when, in fact, those who have put up their consumption, because banking products today do not produce any large revenues, revolving actually from birth to 18 years will reverse the money three times and three times come from the state budget. The question is whether they are really going to go back to their housing and whether, until then, the Building Savings Act will also not be amended, because the trend has already been repeated, that state contributions should only go if the money is really spent on the building purposes and equipment of the apartment or reconstruction of the apartment. So in addition to the legal standards that we may have treated, there is still a risk that some percentage of citizens will really use it as the best product where their money is assessed repeatedly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-003-029.u13	I thank Mr Opálek. Mr Pavel Blažek, now duly applied for, followed by Mr Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-003-029.u14	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Much has been said. Perhaps I will try a certain refinement and a small generalization that does not apply only in this case. Firstly, I would like to point out that the new Civil Code, adopted by the last House, has not changed anything at all to the existing legal situation, but it has become known, and this must also be noticed in other things, that something has changed terribly and that something needs to be done differently in matters without the right to say so. And it happened that the Czech National Bank, as a supervisory authority, sent a letter to the savings banks, where it actually told the savings banks that although the same legislation is still the same, it recommends that the court's consent be required in these matters. This means that the CNB was suddenly, let's say, more papal than the Pope and the savings banks preferred to follow what the Czech National Bank said, thereby actually creating a factual situation, without changing the state of law, which was different, and suddenly those people who had concluded contracts in the past period were finding that what they thought they were going to do with the funds could not do so suddenly. Let us remember this case, because there can often be practice of approving something, or even not approving it, of remaining the same legal situation, and suddenly in practice, someone feels that there is a need for a different approach. And what's the generalization in? It is right that the rule of law protects children, protects certain other groups of the population, but any legal certainty and protection should not be conducted in such a way that it complicates the lives of those it protects. This is exactly what happened on the basis of this approach of the Czech National Bank, which is why it is reasonable and correct in these matters, although it may be unsystematic, to refine this regulation so that savings banks know exactly how they should behave, and they were not afraid that their procedure would be wrong, even though the legislation is still the same. So let's make it more precise, and by doing so, we will really protect those groups that are to be protected better than the Czech National Bank thinks it did. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-003-029.u15	I thank Mr Blažek. Mr Benda withdraws his application. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If no one else is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I am asking the rapporteur's final words, or the appellant's. It's not like that. I do not see the proposal to refer the proposal back to the recast and I am initiating a detailed debate. I ask who is reporting for a detailed debate. Mr. Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-003-029.u16	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, since I appear to be the only one signing up for a detailed debate, I will propose two proposals of a procedural nature which are not quite normal, and I think that we must get used to them under the amendment to the Rules of Procedure. First, in accordance with Section 94a of the House, the guarantee committee should no longer deal with the draft law. Because the guarantee committee adopted its resolution. There was no other proposal, so it seems completely unnecessary for the guarantee committee to return to what it has already decided and nothing else has been submitted. That's one procedural proposal. The second procedural proposal under Section 95 is to reduce the deadline between second and third readings from 14 days to 7 days, so that we can discuss it in a variable week on Wednesday when it comes to the third reading. These are two of my procedural proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-003-029.u17	Thank you. I beg the rapporteur to speak now. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-003-029.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I agree with Mr Benda's proposal as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-28-ps2013-039-06-003-029.u19	Absolutely. Thank you. I ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. If no one else is reporting, I will conclude a detailed debate. I will call our fellow Members from the lobby and we will vote on the proposals, on the procedural proposals proposed by Mr Marek Benda. First of all, we will vote under Rule 94a of the Rules of Procedure on Mr Benda's proposal that the guarantee committee no longer address this point. There's a check-out request. I hereby remove you all. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on Mr Benda's proposal that the guarantee committee no longer address this proposal. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the 149 vote, 125 Members and Members, for 121, against none. The motion was accepted. The second procedural vote will be on the proposal for the deadline between second and third reading to be reduced to seven days. Both the appellant and the rapporteur agree with this proposal. I'm opening the vote to shorten the deadline to seven days. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 150, 129 Members and Members registered, for 100, against 23. The motion was accepted. I thank both the appellant and the rapporteur and end the second reading of this bill. The next item to be addressed is:
