ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u1	256. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations We'll follow the interpelations. This should be the interpelation of Mr Miroslav Grebeníček to the Prime Minister, who is interrupted last week due to the end of the period for the hearing of written interventions. We'll continue with it. There are also interpelations on the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok from Jitka Chalánková, Zbyněk Stanjura, to Robert Pelikán from Karel Fiedler, to Marian Jurečka from Petr Bendl and to Richard Brabec from Zbyněk Stanjura. These are the interpelations that are ahead of us. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which I quote: 'Unless an Interpelling Member is present at a meeting of the House, there shall be no debate on the response to its intervention, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further.' We'll approach individual written interpelations. Interpelling Mr Miroslav Grebeníček on the Prime Minister's and Government's procedure as a whole in the case of sending the Minister of Culture of the Czech Republic, Daniel Herman, to the Congress of the Sudeton German Landsmanšaft in Nuremberg, where the Minister questioned the results and consequences of World War II and the decisions of the victorious powers and legal acts adopted to postpone the German population, which did not preserve the loyalty of the Czechoslovak Republic and showed active opposition to Nazism, we interrupted in a debate that could not be ended. I don't have a logged in at the moment. I therefore ask who is reporting for the debate. Member Miroslav Grebeníček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I read somewhere that Prime Minister Sobotka recently threw away the mask of an unexcited official and did not hesitate to show a certain animosity to Andrej Babiš. However, against the folk vice Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek, he did not dare a single thorn. He even stated that he had not found a single reason why he should ask the Vice-President of the coalition government, Pavel Bělobrádek, to consider the exchange of popular ministers. When the Prime Minister doesn't need to attack, he says he puts on his usual style, dominated by grey, flatness, and irreverence. Many of his slim references to the satisfactory work of the people's members of the coalition government suggest that he is so secretly sticking his bare ass out or making a long nose to President Miloš Zeman, who would have no objection to Daniel Herman getting out of the government. Others, however, claim that social democracy has taken on coalition arrangements, which basically make Prime Minister Sobotka an embarrassing figure or merely a minister's own party. And so the problems of unprivileged layers get on their asses, and some government officials forget to see what our citizens really do live through. It is not only a national accent, but also wages, pensions and enforcement of law. And in today's Czech Republic, almost anything is possible. The problem is that people like Prime Minister Sobotka consider what is generally right and valid only what they and their minions think. In other words, the Sobotkův coalition's current style seems to be failing, especially because it is cut off from normal people's lives. The people on the top feel more and more like a group of powerful and wealthy, who serve themselves and their foreign protectors in particular. I would also like to say that it is fatally dangerous for our republic when there are people who question the foundations of the Czech state in the government or even at the head of it. [[9.10 hours]] Unlike Prime Minister Sobotka's positions, I see Minister Herman as a policy in my views consistent and to some extent straightforward. It doesn't change the fact that I'm on the other side of the political river. Minister Herman even openly confesses that his father Zdeněk Herman, who successfully worked as editor of Lidové demokracie in České Budějovice, is registered in the list of active collaborators of State Security, in the category of secret collaborator, agent and confidant, under the code name cestovatel, with registration number 02092. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a bit proud to be one of the co-authors and co-chairs of the motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies on the decrees of the President of the Republic of Edvard Beneš in 2002. Since the beginning of my work in the highest Czech policy, I have supported such steps as the leadership of the state or various political parties, which have been or are in line with national interests and serve the interests of peace and security in the state as well as equal cooperation between nations. That resolution was created at the time as a result of the consensus of all the political parties represented in the House. It arose spontaneously among all of us as an expression of the House's concern over the attempts of certain circles, especially abroad, to reopen tragic manifestations of history, to complicate current international relations and to disturb our public. This resolution is brief and takes the following form: the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, refusing to open up questions relating to the end and results of World War II, highlighting the positive importance of the Czech-German Declaration and its will not to burden the future with political and legal issues arising from the past, confirming that good neighbourly relations and full membership of the Czech Republic in the European Union are part of the foreign policy priorities of the Czech Republic, based on the fact that the scope and conditions of restitution lawmaking are entirely and exclusively within the competence of the Czech constitutional authorities, declares that: 1. the Czechoslovak legislation from 1940 to 1946, including the decrees of the President of the Republic, arose as in other European countries as a result of the war and defeat of Nazism; 2. post-war laws and decrees of the President of the Republic have been implemented, consumed, in the post-release period and no new legal relations can be established on the basis of them today; 3. the legal and property relations resulting from them are indisputable, untouchable and invariable. Ladies and gentlemen, of the 169 Members present 169 voted in favour, including Bohuslav Sobotka and Vladimír Špidla. No one opposed it then, no one abstained from the vote. It was therefore an acceptable and clear position, which shared all major forces on the Czech political scene, both domestic and foreign to the public. Two years later, the European Commission's spokesman confirmed that the question of Benešův' decrees has been resolved and closed for the European Union. The European Commission then refused to comment on the awkward remarks made by Prime Minister Edmund Stoiber. Ladies and gentlemen, maybe one of you will sigh again, oh, the past is on our heels again. Yes, he's breathing. I am thinking not only of repeated attempts by some political circles from Germany, Austria and Hungary at international level to rethink the events associated with the end of World War II, but also of some Czech politicians who help them do so. If we lived in normal times, we would have to look for them in mentally faint institutions based on a mere empirical assessment of their godly activities. No, I do not want to master history, I just want to remind you that the first duty of every constitutional or state official is to defend the interests of the people in the international field, the country of which he is a representative, and also to strive for peace in Europe and for new values to be born in humanism, without the guardianship of the Bavarian Prime Minister and his Sudeten German compatriots. No, the decision of the victorious powers to move the guilty Němec did not fall on the basis of academic debates, but over the graves of millions of human victims. And no one started the war but Nazi Germany. It is also an irreversible fact that the vast majority of the Sudeten Němec remained faithful to Hitler until the end of the war. No, I cannot consider the removal of the Sudeten Němec as a collective punishment. It was not directed against German anti-fascists and a large German minority remained in Czechoslovakia even after the war. No, I'm not one of those who lighten the accompanying phenomena of the so-called wild move. It is clear to me, however, that if what fell in Munich had not fallen, or if Munich had not occurred, on which the Sudeten German population and its entirely majority prohitlerian position had a lion's share, there would be no displacement, neither driven nor wild. It is also worth mentioning that the allies agreed to move German minorities from Poland, Hungary and Czechoslovakia mainly to prevent Germany's relapse of the possibility to exploit its minorities in the borderlands in the future to unleash other crises similar to those of Czechoslovakia from 1938. This was the main motive, not some Czech vindictiveness. On 24 February 2004 the following sentence was approved in the House: Edvard Beneš was responsible for the state. This law, for which 19 civil democrats, along with members of social democracy and KSČM, voted, was the subject of sharp attacks mainly by the people's people. The Social Democrat Zdeněk Jičínský pointed out that the approval of the law will have its message in the direction of the voices from the neighbourhood that Edvard Beneš claims to be a war criminal. And today's Minister for Social Democracy, Jan Mládek added that the adoption of the law will significantly reduce the risk of a breakthrough in the constitutional border. Ladies and gentlemen, the monuments of purges in the Czech and Moravian borderlands after 1938 and after 1945 are declining rapidly. The majority of their descendants, looking back, take into account not only the era of European integration but also the content of the Czech-German Treaty 1992 and the Czech-German Declaration 1997. They also appreciate the fact that the Czech Republic is particularly interested in the future of Europe and, in the face of the serious risks of today, it is looking for what connects us in Europe. [[9.20 hours]] But the former Czechoslovak Němec never apologized to the thousands of Czechoslovak citizens who were expelled from our border. And they didn't apologize for a significant contribution to the Henleinian breakup of our republic. It must be added, however, that various Vlk, Wolfs, Nečas, Graubner, Herman, Sobotk and other Czech peacemakers have never demanded this. They say it is primarily economic interests and also an attractive ally against Chancellor Merkelová. And so Bavarian Prime Minister Horst Seehofer and Chairman of the Sudeten German compatriotic association Berndt Posselt triumphs again. They say time is difficult and there's no time for romance. Nor the serious protection of our national interests. So let our fellow citizens also consider this issue in the next elections. Let the voters also judge the signature of Prime Minister Sobotka under the scandalous sale of Ostrava-Carvinsky mines and apartments, let them also judge the theatre that Bohuslav Sobotka and his faithful played for the voters around the so-called church restitutions, so that they may then disgracefully deceive them. And let him judge Sobotkův's running over the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft. Citizens can rightly ask what else can be expected of a person who so scandalously prefers to maintain his personal power position over the interests of the Czech Republic and its citizens. All of this I consider to be strong reasons why I am not proposing a resolution now. I am satisfied with the position of the European Union for which this issue is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u3	I thank Mr Miroslav Grebeníčk. I'm asking if anyone's joining the debate? If no one reports, I am done with the debate. Mr Grebeníček said at the end of his speech that he was not proposing a resolution, so we will not vote. Before we get to the next interview, allow me to make an apology to Minister Karla Šlechtová, who apologizes on account of a foreign trip. Mrs Golasowská apologizes between 14.30 and the end of the negotiations. Deputy Prime Minister Bělobrádek apologizes from 17 o'clock for work reasons. Mr Josef Vondrášek apologizes throughout the entire day for health reasons and Minister Jurečka apologizes today until 11 o'clock for work reasons. I'm sorry, 'cause we've got an interpellation on him. We're gonna have to deal with this. Let me just add a spare card. Mr Igor Jakubčík has number 22 and Mr Radek Vondráček has number 31. We will continue with the second interpelling, by interpelling Mrs Jitka Chalánková on the upcoming train traffic graphics, the House's press 945. I would remind you that the Minister is not present, but Mrs Jitka Chalánková is not present either, so this interpellation falls under the warning that I read at the beginning. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura is present, Minister Ťok is excused for the whole day. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Your suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u4	Hello. I propose that we interrupt the discussion of this interpellation into the presence of Minister Took.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u5	Okay. We will decide this without debate in the 226 vote that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of interrupting this interpelation to the presence of the Minister. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 226, from 76 for 52 present. Interpelation has been interrupted into the presence of the Minister of Transport. Another interpelation is the interpellation of Mr Karel Fiedler to the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán. This is a matter of carrying out and the results of judicial enforcement checks. Minister Pelikán, as I read at the beginning, is excused. My colleague Fiedler is present. Your suggestion, Mr. Ambassador? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u6	Thank you for the floor. I have already intersected on this matter last week the present Prime Minister Sobotka, or rather on this subject. Prime Minister Sobotka gave the answer, gave information that I didn't have. I think that this point would really deserve the attention of the Chamber of Deputies, especially in relation to the fact that... which does not allow me the time of oral intervention, so I could not respond to the Prime Minister last week, that although it is very nice that the government's action plan to combat the excluded is to include this point, or the proposal to address the territoriality of the executors by June 2017, however it is evident that it is only - Prime Minister, do not be angry, by means of the President - that is a populist proposal, a purely populist proposal, because we all of us here really know that if such a proposal is put forward in June next year, it is, let me say, 100% certain that it will not be discussed, approve and become effective, that it will fall under the table. I consider the presentation of such an action plan to be pure populism. I have provided information here, once again the House, as the interpelations are going on, is basically in one third of the state. This point would deserve really great attention, because as the Prime Minister said here that the executor in question was given the motion for a disciplinary action with a financial penalty of CZK 500,000, I do not know which one of you registered it all, and the Supreme Administrative Court dropped the financial penalty and merely verbally warned him. I consider it a completely scandalous and tragic state, because it's not one case. There will most likely be a lot of cases like this. However, Minister Pelikán is not present. I would like to remind myself once again that here for over a year, for about a year and a quarter, if I count correctly, there is a Senate amendment, under which most of the Senators of the ČSSD are signed, which would allow this problem to be opened quickly and operationally and start working on it. So, of course, I'm making a motion to interrupt this point, and it's going to be very interesting to see how the government coalition stands up to it. And I dare not say again that this draft action plan, the term June 2017 I consider to be a pure populism, an empty gesture of how to just slap the thing, pretending to citizens that the matter is being dealt with, even though we know that there is no will to resolve this parliamentary term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u7	I thank Mr Fiedler. The procedural motion to interrupt the presence of Minister Robert Pelikán will be decided in the vote number 227, which I am - sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u8	According to the legislation, I'm putting a motion for an interruption in the presence of Minister Pelikán.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u9	I declare vote 227 misguided. We will decide in the vote 228 on the suspension of this interpelation into the presence of the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán. I've started voting number 228 and I'm asking who's in favour of the interruption. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 228. Of the present 78 for 55, versus 1. The proposal was accepted and we interrupted this interpelation. Another intervention is the interpelation of Mr Petr Bendl to Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka on housing for officials of the Ministry of Agriculture. This is House press 971. A moment ago, I noted the morning of the unforgivable, now excused minister Jurečka. I ask Mr Bendl if he is interested in speaking. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u10	Thank you for the floor. I must say, I may have to turn to the Prime Minister. And I don't like it, Prime Minister, in this case, because this whole case goes to the Minister, and he's obviously avoiding her. He not only avoids the normal conduct of the Chamber of Deputies, he has much lower at the House meetings than the Prime Minister does. It's no match! And now for the second time, he's avoiding - and we all know that he's here, that he's in the Czech Republic, he just doesn't want to answer the unpleasant questions, how come he just let his deputy make furniture for 367,000 in a service apartment. As it was with the contract, how is it that he buys refrigerators for his deputy for almost 50,000 crowns, etc. etc. Those are just outrageous things that the minister has to answer. And if he's avoiding it, I'll have to turn to you, Prime Minister. Although I know this case isn't coming to you. But they don't give me the relevant information when I compare it to what the press were getting for contracts, so it doesn't match what the Department of Agriculture is saying in my interpelations. I beg you to interrupt this interpellation into the presence of the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u11	Okay, thank you. Anyone else interested in getting off? If not, we will therefore vote in the vote number 229 on the interruption of this point to the presence of Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka, in the vote number 229, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of interrupting this written interpelation. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 229, from 80 present, for 56, against one. Interpelation has been interrupted and we will deal with it next time, if the Minister is present. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's interpellation is the sixth interpellation with which he did not agree. [[A constant high level of sound in the hall. - Increased voice:]] I ask for peace, colleagues and colleagues. In the case of Government Decree 283/2016 Coll., on the establishment of priority transport projects and the state of preparation of documents for the accelerated EIA regime. It's House Press 972, the environmental minister's interpolated is present, and at this moment I'm giving... Mr President, just a little while before I load the new apologies that have been delivered. Mr Okleštěk apologizes for the meeting of today's meeting, Mr Vít KaňkovskKaňkovský for the whole day, between 9 and 11 o'clock Mr Uhlík. Mrs Vlasta Bohdalová has a replacement card number 71. And now we're going to do the interpellation. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u12	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, you know that we have long and repeatedly addressed the issue of the EIA in the Chamber of Deputies. I don't want to repeat our different views on the new law, virtually. a novel which was adopted in 2015. My interpellation was aimed at the state in which the priority buildings were actually in order to be amended by the EIA Act. I used a rather unusual method when I sent the same questions to the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Environment, respectively. for both ministers, because two of the four questions actually concern the coordination of the procedures of these two ministries, both the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of the Environment. Then I requested the current status of requests by the Ministry of Transport and information on whether or not the Ministry of Environment required additional documentation for individual buildings. When I look at the two answers, unfortunately they agree on this, and I do not fully understand it, and perhaps Minister Brabec, if he does, could answer that there was actually no methodological instruction that would clearly set rules for the successful negotiation and execution of the nine priority buildings, and at the same time there was no joint working group at the level of the deputy or similar level to coordinate this procedure. I think it's a shame, but I take it as a fact. It's a management style that doesn't seem entirely appropriate to me. Thank you for the information. I'm not suggesting anything. When I asked if all the documents from the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of the Environment were supplied, I got different answers here. The Ministry of Transport answered me - because Minister Ťok was not here, it is actually the same interpellation - that he supplied all the documents. The Department of the Environment told me that six of the nine buildings were supplied with documents. So I would be interested in the current situation, because it is not possible - because there are no coordination groups or methodological guidelines, then it may be that if we are not satisfied with the speed of some particular construction, there will be a switch of responsibility. And my questions were clearly designed to make sure that the specific ministries carried out their tasks so that the purpose of the amendment - we originally wanted ten, I remind you, then there are nine. I don't want to talk about the extended Red today, it's not the subject of this interpelation. As well as up-to-date information from the Minister on whether the Ministry of Transport has already fulfilled its obligations and has actually provided all the required documentation to enable the Ministry of Environment to decide. I think we deserved it, but if possible in writing, and we can agree on that today, I don't have to write a written interview, a written information for the Chamber of Deputies about, on the one hand, the state of the nine projects, two of them being settled, if I have good information from the Ministry's press releases, and that's good, and what the other seven look like. But what I'm really interested in and what's on our mind is the other buildings that aren't in the priority regime. So if we were able to get some sort of summary information sometime in January, what's the condition of 11. This year's 12th, so I think it would be useful information not only for the members of the Economic Committee and the Sub-Committee on Transport, but for all of us who are actively interested in transport issues. I just want to say that if, in principle, the Minister, because I expect relatively brief answers there, he will reply briefly to the two additional questions that I have asked here, I will not propose to disagree, because I really consider this to be a non-political matter, a matter of common interest, and I think it is our concern to proceed as quickly as possible not only with the nine, but also with the other buildings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u13	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. The Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec claims the floor. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u14	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the interpellation. We're getting to it relatively late, but not because I wasn't willing to answer it, but one day we didn't meet a colleague at the interpellations, and the other day, at the written interpelations, the time of another interpelation was exhausted. I'll get to the methodical instruction and the working group right away. I can really assure you, my colleague, through Mr President, that, first of all, the task force, it was a bit of a misunderstanding, and then I was angry with colleagues and myself, because I signed something that I quickly flew over as a letter, and that working group, of course, exists. She even exists on two levels. She exists at ministerial and deputy level, where directly with Minister Took and Deputy Minister Čoček and with my Deputy Smrž, we deal with ad hoc if we get information from that level of work, professional, let's say official or at the level of the union directors that something has stalled. The level is, let's say, principal, at the level of the Department of Strategy at the Ministry of Transport, the Department of Construction, this is Mr. Director Mátl, at ŘSD, and for me, of course, it's the EIA Department, Mr. Director Doležal. These people communicate with each other every day, even under my rather brutal pressure, and believe me, even if I don't look like one, I can put quite a brutal pressure on my subordinates. So they call each other several times a day and, of course, constantly discuss the extent of the information. So there really is a working group, they meet once every 14 days, they're even minutes of it, but the main thing is when people actually call and e-mail each other all the time ad hoc when there's a problem. [[9.40 hours]] The methodical direction - it was a little bit at the beginning of the misunderstanding, because it was spoken of as a methodical direction rather in the form that these people would meet at the beginning and tell themselves first of all from the perspective of the Ministry of the Environment, what - and even in writing, it is something like that, but it does not have the nature of the methodological instruction, but it was clearly said, and I was sitting at those meetings myself, so I can confirm it, it was clearly stated what extent of the material we would want. He is given automatically by what should be the subject of this binding opinion, i.e. the impact on individual environmental and public health components... [[Voices from the diaper.]] I think I'm gonna have to... I'll let them go. They wouldn't leave it alone anyway. So, of course, this is an effect on... there are noise studies, dispersion studies, influence on surface and groundwater, influence on the agricultural soil fund, influence of course on flora, fauna, landscape and other things. There's a total of ten of those files. And the problem, and now I'm getting to the main one, you rightly said that two projects were already agreed, binding opinions were issued for 40th Hulín-Fryšták, that was 22. 11, and 30. 11 then to the intention of D1 Říkovice-Přerov with the fact that here you can already see that we really strictly kept the deadline up to two months after delivery of the documents. Because the Ministry of Transport, respectively. ŘSD originally submitted documentation for all projects...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u15	I understand you, Minister, and I really believe that there is excessive noise on the number of Members in the House. Dear colleague, gentlemen, who is discussing something else, so please in the foyer!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u16	And they're still one and the same.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u17	Yes. I regret that your party colleagues are causing you so much trouble, but they're coalition colleagues... There. I think it's gonna be okay. Please, Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u18	Thank you. And those two, respectively. three, projects, because today we should issue an opinion on D11 Hradec Králové - Smiřice, so that is the third project, today, at least according to my information from last night's late evening, I hope it will be today, and it really corresponds to what we promised that once we got a complete set of documents, which occurred in those two projects, we even released that opinion even before that period of two months. Unfortunately, the problem occurred with the other constructions, or some other constructions, that the opinion of the Directorate of Roads and Motorways was really different. The Ministry of Transport, whether the documents are complete, because they were needed to complete the scope, respectively. It's more the form that covered all the files, but not the actuals. And there was this problem where we just started to debate, of course, because we have the responsibility to make it a binding position, because it was okay for it to comply with any appeal, to meet any questions from the European Commission, so we requested an update of some of the documents. It was mainly about dispersal studies and noise studies. We really got that. So I can say that if we are based on publishing the third project today, based on the evidence that we currently have at our disposal, I assume that by the end of the year we would have issued an opinion on the construction of D3, bypass of České Budějovice, Vysulné-Hodějovice and Hodějovice-Třebodin, further Otrokovice, D55, Otrokovice - bypass the southeast part and the railway construction of Sudoměřice-Votice. What comes out then on... and we push very hard to make it by the end of January 2017, so that would be the rest, i.e. D48 Frýdek-Místek - bypass. There was a relatively largest deficit of documents so far. And according to my information, they weren't completely complete until yesterday, virtually. quite current, D35 Opatovice-Island and Opatovice-Times. So actually these three buildings would then be issued, and we're doing everything we can to make sure it's not later than the end of January next year. So six by the end of the year and three by the end of January next year. If that's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u19	Thank you, Minister of the Environment, Richard Brabco. I'm asking who's next for the debate. My colleague Novotný. I'm sorry, Mr. Kučera, I didn't mean to confuse that. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u20	Hello, thank you for your word. I would take this opportunity to ask how it is progressed in these other constructions, i.e. those buildings that are not among the lucky ten or nine priority ones, i.e. The remaining 85, I suspect, or more than 80. We forget them a little bit in the euphoria, or at least the information doesn't flow as fast as it might be good. So I would like to ask you this - of course, I have been following the rather well-disputed completion of the D7 motorway, which is a priority for the Ústí Region, but I do not prefer it to others, I think there are other buildings, and these are various city bypasses, etc. So my question goes there, first of all, how is it progressed with those other buildings, whether there are also any terms that could be presented somewhere, or whether there is a possibility to get some kind of clear table where it counts for individual buildings, when the EIA should be issued. First of all. Secondly, I would like to ask specifically about the D7, i.e. whether it is possible to work precisely when obtaining an EIA permit in a similar way to those priority buildings. I know it's not entirely possible, of course, but at least the bureaucratic approach, I mean good, can be speeded up, some things can be done in parallel, some processes can be done faster if, of course, the relevant ministerial ministers, virtually. The government will put enough emphasis on it. That still means questions two. The first is for all the buildings that have fallen out, they're not priority ones, if there's any data. And second D7. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u21	Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, then Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u22	I thank the Minister for his answers. From what Mr Kučera said, the first part was actually what I asked the Minister that we could get some information about the state by the end of the year in January. And the second request is based on what the Minister said, it would probably be useful for him to send a summary report sometime in February to the nine priority buildings of the Members of the Chamber of Deputies, so that we do not have to write a written interpelation, and if we have complete information available, then we will no longer have to write an interpelation and you will answer. I think it would be useful. As I'm saying, the answers are enough for me. I'm not suggesting that you disagree, because it was an informative interpelration. I got the information at this point. Now I do not know how to do this in a procedural manner, Mr Vice-President, because I have actually intersected Minister Took the same thing, and I already consider it unnecessary after today's debate that he should also speak to it and as if to confirm the words of the Minister of the Environment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u23	So take back your disagreement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u24	No, I wasn't thinking of disagreeing, so that the interpellation wouldn't get on the show next time, the one we skipped today. But when we passed the resolution, we're gonna have to deal with it next time. I get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u25	Well, next time, you make it simple. [[This is Mr. Shidlo.]] The Minister is very lenient. Now, then, Mr Karel Šidlo. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Just a short technicality because I'd like to follow up on my colleague Kučera. Minister, it is in your power to tell us at all, because I want to speak to the remaining buildings, about 85, which lack the EIA opinion, a binding decision, and it must go on, what is the capacity of your EIA department for how much it is able to do after delivery of the complete documents and all studies, how much it is able to process for a month, how many individual binding decisions. I'd just ask you, in the context of your answer, if you can respond to this, so that we can basically have a certain amount of time into how long it might actually take if the Ministry of Transport complied with all the conditions you were talking about. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u27	Thank you. Now, Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u28	Thank you for the floor. Well, I had to write it down. I'm getting old and I don't remember all the questions. But I forgot... A brief mention of what President Stanjura asked. It was also an extended Rudna. He said it wasn't the subject of interpelation, but if I'm not mistaken, the deadline for expressing our department of state administration is I guess by 17. December 18th. Of course, I don't want to submit, we're communicating with Mr Stanjura on this matter, so we can then possibly tell each other what the current situation will be after the decision has been made. As for the question - she was actually a joint challenge for the gentlemen of Stanjura and Kučera. Of course, we're ready to give - and it's not a problem to give it before - the current state of preparation of these buildings, but here it is more behind the Ministry of Transport. Now I mean buildings that aren't part of the priority buildings. The construction of the 511 Prague Circuit is solved by a very special regime because a special working group is created for this, which meets, moves the things forward. According to the latest information I have, it was said that by the end of January - and now I am selling as I have purchased - the EIA documentation was to be passed on to the Ministry of the Environment on 511 and that is when we will do what we said we would deliver our position within six months. Of course, the scope of the documentation is quite large and it is on wheels from the Ministry of Transport and ŘSD. All other buildings could be divided into several circuits. But now, because I don't really have the notebooks in front of me right now, and I really don't remember it from my head, but we made a clear deal with the Ministry of Transport so that they would prioritize in that list of buildings that are really waiting for the EIA, and the other things are so-called. I'm done. But there are a number of buildings, as it turns out, in those 85, which are very far away still some realization from the point of view of purchase of land, project preparation etc. In other words, the EIA is not the narrowest place. But there is, if I'm not mistaken, about ten, fifteen, maybe 20 buildings that are in a more prepared phase and where the EIA is the place to be waiting for. That is now the priority of the Ministry of Transport and the ŘSD to complete these documents. They, too, according to my information - but we will, of course, prepare a comprehensive information with my colleague Took - have already commissioned many projects within the framework of the EIA documentation so that they can submit them to us as quickly as possible for the priority projects. I wouldn't want to be here academically, because I don't really have a current situation here. But believe me, the task force, the team, was handling this, too. Because - and that's actually the last question - we also need it capacitively. And it is not only about the capacity of the Ministry of Environment, it is mainly about the capacity of processors and assessors, because it is surprisingly not so many in the Czech Republic who would be able to process documentation. And we're coordinating these things, too. Because he's the documentation processor and then he's the processor of the opposing opinion, and of course that can't be one person. So even there, we're coordinating to actually burden these people in the course of 2017, so they can handle these things. For the Ministry of the Environment, I can say that we will, of course, be able to prepare for this. My people are really working on it seven days a week today. We also use external experts on these priority structures. And of course, we're counting on it, and we're already supposed to be able to do it, but of course, if we were to suddenly get 80 buildings, we wouldn't be giving it to us, but that's why coordination is there to give us these documents. According to my information, the first documents should, respectively. The new EIA should be delivered sometime during January, February and then gradually during 2017 for those projects where it is most urgent. But, of course, we will present a specific situation for specific projects in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u29	Thank you, Minister of the Environment, Richard Brabco. I'm asking who's reporting for the debate. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. The agreement between the Interpelling Member and the Minister for Information is concluded. Thank you, Minister. By this we have exhausted the answers to today's written interpelations, and I note that we have stopped discussing the responses to the written interpelations of Members for today. I am interrupting the meeting within 11 hours when we will continue with the approved agenda of the meeting, or your proposals for change. Have a good day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we will continue. Before I tell you which points we're going to be discussing, allow me to apologize. Mr Fiedler apologises from 11 to 13 for personal reasons, Mr Kasal from 10.00 to 13.00 for working reasons, Mrs Šánová from 13.00 for working reasons and Mr Šrámek today until 11.00. So many apologies. We should focus on fixed points, which is 175 and 262. We would then discuss the points from the News block, suggestions and others according to the approved agenda of the meeting. And in the afternoon, point 257, which is oral questioning. However, before that, I have Mr Bendl's application for the agenda. So Mr. Bendl has the floor, and after that, President Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I do not do this out of great enthusiasm, but since Minister Jurečka avoids the answer to the interpelation and his participation is no longer legendary not only at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, where he does not attend, he does not go to Brussels to deal properly with European funds and does not go to work or to respond to the interpelation, so I am forced to propose the inclusion of a new point -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u32	Colleagues, colleagues, please remain calm. Please take your seats and let us listen together to the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u33	That is why I am forced to propose a new point for today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, following today's firmly placed points, which would be called the Information of the Minister of Agriculture Jurečky on the equipment of the Deputy Minister's service apartment. [[There's still noise in the room.]] Short justification. I've interpolated the Minister on this matter because there are things that I wanted to publicize, either to disprove them or to confirm them, because items such as 47,000 fridges, or a kitchen line built in, atypical, 324,000, without equipment, of course, have been financed from the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture. The total cost... I'm not gonna read the whole item here. My time is very limited. The total cost of only the equipment of this Deputy Minister's service flat is CZK 1,031 million. Without investments, construction repairs or other construction works that needed to be done there -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u34	Once again, I ask the House for peace! Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u35	- that the Minister of Agriculture didn't answer me in my interpellation, even though I asked him to. The whole matter is very strange, as the Ministry of Agriculture publishes other information at any moment. It provides journalists with contracts that I, for example, have not received. The contracts do not correspond to the amounts answered by the Minister in my interpellation. And like I said, he doesn't go to work, he's not here, he's not coming to the House meeting, and there's no other way to find out. I had to tell the Prime Minister here today that I would have to turn to him because the Minister of Agriculture doesn't come to work. And I don't like it. I don't think that's common. It is an extraordinary step, but it is because ministers simply do not go to interpelations, even though they are in the Czech Republic, they have no foreign activity that would excuse them completely. I must also say that there are solid ministers in this respect that when they interpel, for example, I had an interpelation with Foreign Minister Zaorálek, so personally he called me the day before, apologized and said I will not, I will answer you another time, I have work obligations. The Minister of Agriculture is not capable of this decency. Until the last second, I was unable to find out, as an Interpelling Member, whether or not the Minister of Agriculture would be here. Therefore, I beg you very much to include this point, which, as I say, is called the Information of the Minister of Agriculture on the equipment of the Deputy Minister of Agriculture's service apartment, after the fixed points for today's day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u36	Yes. Mr. Faltýnek, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u37	Good morning, colleagues, Mr President. Allow me to make a third attempt to make a firm classification of point No. 39, government amendments to the Occupational Soldiers Act, which unfortunately we have not been able to discuss this week. This is the House press 958, first reading. 6. 12. actually this item was suspended just before the vote. There was only one logged in discussion. I would suggest that we place it on today after a fixed point No. 175. This means today after the fixed point No. 175. At the same time, allow me to propose that the following two items be excluded from the agenda for the sake of a proper apology by ministers, namely, Minister Šlechtová, it is item No. 223, Annual Report and Financial Statements of the State Housing Development Fund for 2015 are House printing 762, and point No. 225 Minister Ťok, Annual Report and Financial Statements of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure for 2015, House press 771. So these two points, please remove from the agenda. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-001-256.u38	Thank you, too. And if there's no one else on the agenda, we'll vote. First of all, Mr Bendl's proposal, which wishes to include a new point, whose title would be the Information of Minister Jurečka on the equipment of the Deputy Minister's apartment. The Member wishes to place this item on a fixed basis. That means the third point after paragraph 262. Initiating vote, I ask who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote 230, registered 135, for 55, against 39. This proposal has not been adopted. President Faltýnek proposes a firm inclusion of paragraph 39, print 958, the Act on Occupational Soldiers, after paragraph 175. That means the second point after that point. Mr Kostřica has card number 72. So we would vote point 39 after point 175. Initiating vote, I ask who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? It's vote 231, registered 137, for 118, against no one. The motion was accepted. Furthermore, there is a proposal to eliminate point 223 and point 225. I will ask whether we can vote with one vote or whether anyone wants a separate vote. If no one wants a separate vote, we will vote at once on the elimination of these two points. Initiating the vote, I ask who agrees with the elimination of paragraphs 223 and 225. Who opposes this proposal? It's vote number 232, registered 137, for 122, against no one. This proposal was adopted. We've dealt with the proposals to change the show and there's nothing stopping us from opening a point.
