ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-010-160.u1	160. Government bill amending Act No. 38/2004 Sb., on insurance intermediaries and separate creditors of insurance events and on the amendment of trade law (the Act on insurance intermediaries and insurers of insurance events), as amended /German press 751/ - 3rd reading Instead of the rapporteur's table, the Finance Minister Andrej Babiš has already taken the position, and I also ask that Mr Ladislav Šincl, Member of the Guarantee Budget Committee, take the place. Strangers have left and are looking for a newsletter. The rapporteur shall be replaced by Mr Jiří Dolejš. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 751/3, which was delivered to you on 1 June 2016, the report on the discussion of the guarantee committee was received as the House Press 751/4. I am now asking the appellant whether he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-010-160.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before we vote on the final version of the amendment to the Insurance Intermediaries Act, allow me to comment on the amendment tabled and to sum up a rather complex legislative history which relates to this matter. I consider it important, at least, to clarify to you and to the public why the fate of this law is not clear even after more than a year when we started discussing it. To explain what and why the Ministry of Finance has advocated all the time in this matter and what steps we have taken to ensure that this law finally finds sufficient support between you. I will therefore also respond to the speeches made by some Members during the last discussion of this material. [[11.10 hours]] First, the promised little window into the past. In March 2015, the House began to discuss at the same time two government proposals governing insurance, the petitioner of which was the Ministry of Finance, the amendment to the Insurance Intermediaries Act and the amendment to the Insurance Act. At that time, it was difficult to understand the sequence of events that led us to meet again after more than a year over the same thing. If I perceive the feeling of this House correctly, I would venture to say that we are tired and poisoned by the amendments to both laws. I clearly regard the legislative activism of my fellow Member Šincl as the main cause of the current situation. His controversial amendments to government bills first forced the government to withdraw the relevant amendment from the House in the summer of 2015. At the time it was a big, comprehensive amendment, which had decent support for insurance companies, intermediaries and the Czech National Bank. However, by dragging over the regulation of commissions, this law fell under the table. At that time, the first child, an incomprehensible law, was poured out with a bathtub, which the Member otherwise wanted so badly in his own words. The second child was poured out only a few months later and was called the Government's Bill on Insurance, which has nothing to do with the issue of overconfidence and commissions. Because of this legislative adventure, the Czech Republic is still in a mess on the insurance sector's market, and it faces the threat of financial penalties for failing to transpose European law into domestic law. Now to the specific objections that Mr Šincl presented here in the second reading. First of all, why we are now not presenting an extensive but only partial amendment, a torso limiting to the adjustment of certain financial relations between insurance companies, insurance intermediaries and clients. We're not doing this simply because it doesn't make any sense at the moment. In 2015, it was still a raging new European directive on the distribution of insurance, and it is already approved and will be transposed, in view of the legislative requirements, by a completely new law that we are currently preparing. In the logic of this procedure, the Ministry of Finance informed both the Budget Committee and the professional public. In his last speech on this subject, Mr Šincl here also convinced us that, under the authority of the Government, I am presenting something that is consistent with his initial amendments of 90 percent. However, I cannot agree with this. This is the result of a few months' search for compromise. We honor this hard-fought compromise. I do not chápat because this coalition proposal, too, has been called into question by the new amendments by the Coalition Member. The original amendment of Mr Šincl of 2015 contained a number of problematic provisions, which, unlike what is the subject of the current compromise government proposal, were not acceptable to the Ministry of Finance and which we fundamentally rejected. This is, in particular, the introduction of a ceiling for commissions and very inconsistent consumer protection. The risk of life insurance should have been included in the scope without exceptions. The Ministry of Finance has always warned loudly and consistently, in line with the Government's Legislative Council, that commission regulation is not a universal consumer protection, but rather a problematic selective protection for insurance companies. Such a type of State intervention does not belong to the regulation of the market economy, as it brings unilateral competitive advantage on the market without guaranteeing a positive effect for the client. That is why we have always preferred the other leg of regulation in the Ministry of Finance as part of the search for compromise, which is an adjustment to the calculation of the ransom. The purchase fee is the amount received by the client if the agreed life insurance with the investment or savings component terminates. The current practice is that in the first two years the client does not receive anything, because all the insurance premiums paid are primarily allocated to cover insurance charges, which is in fact to cover its own distribution costs. The draft law newly states that these costs must be applied to the client more evenly and more continuously. From my point of view, this is an objective improvement in the consumer position. Now, in addition to Mr Stanjur, who is the author of the only current amendment to the press 751. In the first part of his amendment, Mr Stanjura dismisses from the Government's proposal Section 21f, i.e. the regulation of commissions. This limited the content of this amendment only to the regulation of the ransom, which ultimately corresponds to the amendment tabled here last year by Mr Kubíček. Although the Ministry of Finance supported this amendment at the time, it was found insufficient within the coalition. As I have already said, we honour the agreed coalition compromise, and therefore we will not support the proposal to dismiss this paragraph. In the second part of his amendment, Article 21f, Mr Stanjura removes the client's right to redemption in the first two years of life insurance, which cannot be agreed. It goes against the logic and meaning of the whole, otherwise factually correct provision on the ransom. The client would not have been able to get to his funds, the increase of which is guaranteed by this amendment, until the third year of insurance. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, allow me to ask you for the support of the government proposal, and thus for the end of the long Martyria that we have experienced with this law in the last year. I consider the proposal to be a compromise that takes due account of the interests of all the parties concerned - clients, insurance companies and intermediaries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-010-160.u3	I thank the Minister for his opening words. I am opening a debate that I have no application for. The rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-010-160.u4	Beautiful morning. I believe my role will still come in order to lead you through a fairly simple vote, but allow a little comment on the martyria, rather to its finals, because it is not worth reproducing these two years here. The point is, of course, that it is a government proposal, so it is logical that it is based on a certain agreement of coalition entities, and therefore it is difficult to have claims on this agreement that it did not solve what it does not want to solve, i.e. essentially what concerns clients, i.e. enormous commissions from intermediaries. What they agreed that they wanted to regulate, we can, of course, debate in the logic of efficiency or in the logic that this is a partial solution, but I must say that on the board of the budget committee, even though these debates also had several stages and could be expressed both by representatives of insurance companies and by intermediaries themselves, and we did not find much in the vote. I must say that the Committee on Budgets does not draw up an overall resolution in the press 751, and therefore a certain, let us say, shadow of doubt about the quality of the whole draft remains. In any case, there is only one thing left for us to do - to vote on the proposal of colleague Stanjura, which consists of two parts, and, of course, to decide on the whole proposal. Allow me just one comment on the solution of my colleague Stanjura. If we were worried about last year's idea of how to regulate these commissions from the client's point of view, then Stanjura's proposal rather points to the extent to which these less-thin effects on clients are redistributed in the business relationship between the insurance company, which, of course, charges certain costs and the intermediary. I see his proposal as a certain way of leaning towards the interests of intermediaries, but somehow the clients themselves are not so affected by this at the end of the day. After all, my personal position, even though I have said, is directed at this point in the budget committee's position, is that the resolution has not been adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-010-160.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. Mr President of the Civic Democratic Party Civic Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-010-160.u6	Thank you for the floor. I am the author of a single amendment, so I will try to convince you that the proposal is a good one. If we agree not to introduce any regulation, that's the best solution. I am convinced that this regulation is actually entering the free market and is trying to regulate trade relations between two private companies, and that is not a good thing. At the moment when there was a clear majority will to regulate it in some way, which is the problem with life insurance when it saves itself - so that I don't use the exact technical terms to explain it. It really does exist. It happens that the client prematurely terminates the contract, closes a new one and loses part of the already saved money. All I'm saying is that there's a client on the line, maybe one insurance company, but he's gonna get the other insurance company, the one that's making a bad deal for the client. [[11.20 hours]] When I was wondering if we, the citizens of the Democrats, were going to enter the debate somehow, we were trying to find a solution that was beneficial for the client. And we're not trying to make a referee between intermediaries, or if you want brokers, it's a generally used word, and insurance companies. On the budget committee, I said that I had at my disposal the Ministry of Finance's material, which assessed several possible variants of the regulation. The first was a line without regulation. That's the best part. Then there were two variants that the Ministry of Finance wrote in favour of the client. I presented one of those two to you. And then there were about five or six variants in which officials from the Ministry of Finance were written: in favour of the client and in favour of insurance companies. And that's how I see the government proposal. The Minister of Finance says that this proposal is completely different from Mr Šincl's proposal, so if I try to judge this, and I can do that, we are in the Chamber of Deputies and we are all Members, then both of these colleagues are right. The proposal is not 100% identical, the government proposal we're about to vote on, but if I had to quantify it, 85 to 90 percent are the same. It seems quite smiling to me, because we alone, members of the ODS Budget Committee, voted against this initial proposal by Mr Šincl. All other Members of all other Members voted in favour when we first discussed this on the Committee on Budgets. But then Minister Babiš called this proposal a lobbyist, and I do not know what it was, the result was that the law was not adopted, which we did not mind, because if we believe that no regulation is best, then if some type of regulation is not adopted, then we really do not mind. At this point, the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance and the Government as a whole have almost fully identified Mr Šincl's original proposal. The question is, and judge each of you, I will not comment whether he was lobbyist and remained lobbyist or not lobbyist and not lobbyist, or whether it is judged by the person who submits it. When one member of the Chamber of Deputies presents it, it is lobbyist, and when almost the same proposal is submitted by the government, it is no longer lobbyist. Nevertheless, I believe that the amendment I tabled is simply better, it is better for the benefit of the clients. We are prepared to support the amendment, the law as a whole, on the contrary, if the amendment is not adopted, this will make life significantly more difficult for intermediaries. And it's not a small group of people who have it either as a main income or a side income that they're trying to secure themselves and their families. The proposal is not confrontational, even the Minister of Finance said in his opening speech that, in fact, a similar, if not identical, member of the government coalition, even a member of the ANO movement, submitted a previous discussion of this issue, so I think we can accept the amendment because it is in favour of clients. If those who want regulation say they're referring mainly to those clients, you can really support it. And if you don't believe me, maybe ask Mr. Kubíček from the government side of the ANO 2011 movement. If you do not do so, the Chamber of Deputies will indeed enter into business relations between insurance companies and insurance intermediaries, and I do not think it is happy. I don't want to judge who's right in their mutual competition for business terms, who's better, who's worse, I don't think it's our place. But what is crucial: We should work to increase the financial literacy of clients or citizens, because no law guarantees that someone does not sign a personally disadvantageous contract for him. And the only way to reduce the number of disadvantageous contracts is to increase financial literacy so that those who sign those contracts and account for the old ones are able to assess all the contexts so that they do not lose their own funds unnecessarily. This is where my amendment is headed, and I am asking you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-010-160.u7	Thank you to President Stanjur. President of the TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-010-160.u8	Thank you for the floor. President Stanjura asked the Minister of Finance when it was a lobbyist proposal in the case of Mr Šincl, why it is not a lobbyist proposal now. The Minister of Finance is probably not going to answer you, Mr President Stanjur, because he texted all the time, and he was smoking from his phone, so I'm sure he doesn't know what you were asking. I'll try to answer that. The proposal, of course, is lobbyist, but in the meantime, the lobbyist hit the holding, so now it's a coalition balance, and we can consider it a government proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-010-160.u9	Thank you to President Kalousek. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. Mr President of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-010-160.u10	I will also sign up for the legislative technical clarification of my amendment, just to be sure. It's also passed on the budget committee, but from the point of view of the purity of the procedure, that's what I'm claiming. The legislative technical regulation is set out in the resolution of the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-010-160.u11	Thank you, honourable Member. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. If no one else reports, I am done with the debate. I am asking the final words of the appellant or rapporteur. Not interested. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the amendments. I ask the rapporteur to inform us of the voting procedure, to present the opinions of the guarantee committee and to give us the opinion of this committee. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-010-160.u12	Yes, thank you for your word. Although I have submitted that the Committee on Budgets has not adopted a resolution, it has discussed a proposal for a procedure which, given the number and structure of the amendments, is not too complicated, i.e. in the first step, we would vote on proposal A1, including that legislative clarification, as he pointed out by Mr Stanjura, as is, after all, in the resolution of the Committee on Budgets, i.e. specifying the numbering of the revised passage. Then the A2 vote would follow, that's the release of the one sentence, and then the vote on the whole, so it's pretty simple.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-010-160.u13	Thank you, and I'm asking if anyone else has a draft procedure. If that's not the case, there's a request for all of you to sign off, so I'm signing you all off and I'm asking you to sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the draft procedure as presented by the rapporteur. Initiating vote on the draft procedure. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 155 vote, 145 Members and Members registered, for 141, against none. The motion was accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-010-160.u14	Thus, our first vote is the proposal made by Stanjura A1 as amended by legislation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-010-160.u15	Thank you. The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] The position of the guarantee committee?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-010-160.u16	The overall resolution was not adopted and it did not pass during the partial vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-010-160.u17	I am opening the vote on Mr Stanjura's amendment. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 156 vote, 150 Members and Members registered, for 145, against 52. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-010-160.u18	The next step in the vote on paragraph A2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-010-160.u19	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] The opinion of the Guarantee Committee has not been adopted. [[Rapporteur: That's right.]] That's right. Initiating vote on proposal A2. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a vote of 157, registered 150 Members and Members, for 43, against 56. This proposal has also not been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-010-160.u20	We now have a vote on the proposal as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-01-ps2013-048-04-010-160.u21	All amendments were therefore voted on. I will make a resolution and move on to the vote on the whole bill. The resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 38/2004 Coll., on insurance intermediaries and separate creditors of insurance events and on the amendment of the trade law, as amended, according to the House press 751, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] The position of the guarantee committee? [[It hasn't been accepted.]] It hasn't been accepted. I am opening the vote on the bill as a whole. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 158 vote, 152 Members of Parliament are registered, for 125, against 10. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I thank the rapporteur for his dedication to the Minister. The next item is:
