ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-02-ps2013-053-04-004-034.u1	34. Government bill amending Act No. 435/2004 Coll., on Employment, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 911/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal is to introduce the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová, whom I do not see here, and I will also ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Ms Hana Aulická Jírovcová to come to the rapporteur's table. [[Coming into the hall at a moment's notice]] Madam Secretary is in his place as well. I will ask her to draft the law, because it is the first reading, Madam Secretary, that you state this bill. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-02-ps2013-053-04-004-034.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Members, the aim of this proposal is, above all, changes in the field of job mediation by labour agencies, which resulted from the need to respond to current developments in this area and in the labour market at all. I think we all remember or know what the situation here is that there are disproportionately many agencies and their activities are often essentially semi-legal. And those institutes have come from a long discussion with representatives of large and solid employment agencies, because we are aware that they have their place in the labour market, but our common goal was to prevent those illegal...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-02-ps2013-053-04-004-034.u3	I understand, Madam Secretary, and I will ask my colleagues for peace. If you want to discuss other topics, and I know that the environment that we have been discussing since this morning has made you very active, so please all other discussions other than this law are in the foyer so that the Minister can finish his opening words in peace. Just wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-02-ps2013-053-04-004-034.u4	I'll make this brief. For example, the institutes that are being introduced here are the introduction of an institute of bail money as one of the conditions for authorising the Agency to be registered. The second is to prevent the abuse of the agency employee's employment relationships from being assigned to the same user, because through this, there is actually a circumvention of remuneration today, to circumvent the fact that those people are supposed to take insurance out of a certain income. This is a modification of the factual nature of the offences, respectively. administrative offences, including the introduction of appropriate sanctions. Furthermore, there is a merger of existing types of permits into one permit to simplify and clarify the modification. Furthermore, it is an extension of the period for the grant of contributions to the allocation of a socially effective post from 12 to 24 months. This no longer applies to agencies, this concerns the fact that the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic can mediate and maintain employment for those applicants who are difficult to apply on the normal commercial labour market. There is also a change in the employment of people with disabilities -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-02-ps2013-053-04-004-034.u5	I will interrupt you once more and ask your party and coalition colleagues to remain calm again! Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-02-ps2013-053-04-004-034.u6	Thank you. In the context of the employment of persons with disabilities, there is a record of the fulfilment of the compulsory share, with the aim of reducing the abuse of this institute. Furthermore, this is an important measure that will help to exclude people who de facto work but work partly black, and the State pays for them health and social insurance, and this is the exclusion of the continuity of management in the register of job seekers and the employment relationship established by the agreement on carrying out work under the so-called employment agreement. non-complicating employment. Furthermore, there are measures in the area of employee protection in the event of the employer's insolvency and some other technical matters. [[11.10 hours]] Thank you for your attention and I would like to ask you for the release of this proposal for second reading. I would just add that this is an amendment that we as the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs have been criticized for not discussing, while the amendment has been here since September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-02-ps2013-053-04-004-034.u7	Thank you, Minister. I now ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová to present her report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-02-ps2013-053-04-004-034.u8	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by saying one point. I must say that I am very disappointed that we are also discussing the amendment to the Employment Act on our own at first reading, because the changes proposed in this amendment are closely linked to the changes that appear in the amendment to the Labour Code, and I would therefore appeal to the fact that this discussion on both amendments should be mutual and should always be linked, because without itself these proposed changes are no use. Dear colleagues, the Government of the Czech Republic is submitting a Government Bill amending Act No.435/2004 Coll., on Employment, as amended, and other related laws, under the House press of 911. The purpose of the draft law is to make changes concerning the area of employment mediation, the fulfilment of the compulsory share of employment of disabled persons in the form of removal of products or services from employers employing more than 50 per cent of persons with disabilities in the total number of their employees or the award of contracts to such employers, the provision of a contribution to the reserved socially efficient job, the performance of so-called non-cooling employment, the protection of the privacy of employees and the protection of employees in the insolvency of the employer. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the amendment proposes the abolition of the possibility of carrying out non-cooling employment on the basis of an agreement to carry out the work. Here, the Ministry promises that the proposed change will lead to greater motivation for job seekers, the search for a job establishing participation in sickness insurance, which will be a source of income to ensure their living needs, and will not remain in the register of job seekers for a long time. But I see a big problem right here. I personally did my research in practice, and I was very surprised to find that contracts under the agreement to carry out work for non-cooling employment are of 200, 800, 1500 and very rarely exceed the limit of CZK 2,500. It is not possible to talk about legal contributions for these amounts at all. At the same time, another question immediately arose as the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and its bodies, such as the Labour Office and the Labour Inspectorate, wanted to take positions in this direction, so that non-complicating employment would cease to be abused to a greater extent, respectively. to protect employees and, at the same time, a legitimate income in the state budget, especially in the form of social and health insurance, which, of course, is not the case with these revenues. The answer was about this: the contracts will be concluded on the basis of an agreement to carry out the work, according to which it is also possible to carry out work to an extent exceeding, on average, half of the specified weekly working time, i.e. an uneven layout of the work. However, the amendment to the Labour Code, which is under the House press 903, also enters the whole issue inextricably. [[The Member has quieted with a look at the loudly entertaining Members in the Chamber.]] The compensation period contained in Section 76 (2) (b) (ii) of the basic Regulation is set out in Annex I to Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 3 The Labour Code should be amended to 26 weeks consecutive, or 52 weeks consecutive, by this amendment to the Labour Code. It is also proposed in this amendment to the Labour Code to introduce in agreements on work done outside the employment relationship a record of working time. However, for these planned measures, I must mention the contradiction in the proposed validity of the two amendments. The amendment to the Employment Act seeks to approve this amendment as soon as possible. It is proposed that the Act should take effect on the 15th day following its publication, due to the inevitable need for the proposed legislation to take effect as soon as possible after the date of its publication in the Collection of Laws, because it is a change of legislation by the professional public for a long time expected. That's the reason message from the Department of Labour. The amendment points relating to the fulfilment of the obligation to share are proposed to be effective on the first day of the calendar quarter following the publication in the Collection of Laws. However, the amendment to the Labour Code proposes the entry into force on 1 July 2017, with the exception of the provisions of points 96 to 115 of Part One, Part Four and Part Six, point 13 of Article 9, which take effect on 1 January 2018. Important changes in the amendment to the Labour Code, which will have a direct impact on the way employment relations with job seekers are negotiated, will be delayed, and it can therefore be openly said that at least this time - it also depends, of course, when the amendment comes into force - the efforts of labour authorities and labour inspectorates in checks will be completely futile. Allow me to summarize this part of the amendment. Agreements on work outside employment shall have a place in employment relationships which may be used by employers, but agreements such as employment agreements, performance of work, do not have a place in legislation if they are carried out by job seekers and beneficiaries of benefits from an uninsurable social system, that is to say, housing allowance, subsistence allowance and housing supplement. Jobseekers and recipients of social benefits use this option of employment, account for the minimum income up to CZK 2,500 and the exception is not the income of CZK 500 per month, as I mentioned in the previous contribution. The practice implies that up to 90 per cent of non-complicating jobs in job seekers are formally contracted, carried out no more than 20 hours a week with a remuneration of up to CZK 2,500, or at the same time to negotiate two separate work agreements with a small scope, but usually with a very similar type of work for one employer. However, concealment of income, or hand payouts, brings additional expenses to the State on welfare benefits, in particular a housing allowance. Some labour authorities have long pointed to a legislatively consecrated state of employment, such as the legalization of work black, but there are still concerns about whether the really approved amendment to the Employment Act and also approved by the amendment to the Labour Code will change such a massive abuse of this possibility for clients of employment offices of a certain earning, so that they retain their working potential in particular. I also see the problem that in many cases these clients and partly employees are not looking for another job and this system of livelihoods suits them. The fact that they are rushing into an unsolvable gap in the future, for example, in calculating and granting pensions, to which, of course, they will not be eligible for these earnings, and they will continue to be at doses in material distress that these people are not thinking about. That is why I also ask myself a serious question whether it is not time for the entire section to simply cancel non-cooling employment. Other fundamental changes in the field of mediation of employment by labour agencies concern the clarification of the conditions for granting the appropriate authorisation for mediation of employment, the modification of sanctions and the establishment of clearer rules in relation to users. We generally welcome these fundamental changes, but it is still not possible to proceed with this change without any comments. In particular, the government's efforts, especially the Ministry of Labour, should be to reduce significantly the number of employment mediation agencies, and to improve employment mediation among students, disabled and other vulnerable groups, which are at risk in the labour market in the long term. [[11.20 hours]] In the field of active employment policy, it is proposed to extend the maximum duration of the contribution to a dedicated socially effective post from 12 months to 24 months, which would allow job seekers to be placed on the labour market for a longer period of time. Here I would also draw attention to the draft budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for 2017.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-02-ps2013-053-04-004-034.u9	I understand, Madame. I know it's hard to say news reports when there's noise. So I ask my colleagues and colleagues once more to calm down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-02-ps2013-053-04-004-034.u10	I understand that this area doesn't really interest everyone, but at least you guys could talk your stuff out there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-02-ps2013-053-04-004-034.u11	Please, rapporteur, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-02-ps2013-053-04-004-034.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Chapter 313, where a budget of 4 billion is planned for the part of active employment policy. 12 miles. 960 thousand, about 2 billion. CZK less than in 2016, it can therefore be expected that there will be a substantial increase in this part of active employment policy, as employers make significant use of this already mentioned contribution to a dedicated social-efficient job. This applies not only to existing contracts, which will, of course, be extended, but also to the number of newly concluded contracts. For the fulfilment of the compulsory share of employment of persons with disabilities, the Ministry wants to set up a register of the fulfilment of the compulsory share of employment of persons with disabilities. The Ministry thus responds to the need to verify whether the supplier does not provide its products, services or contracts within the limit laid down by the Employment Act and to the need for easier control by the authorities of the control whether the customer who carries out the compulsory share has counted only those supplies which were supplied to him by the replacement provider, including their deductible extent. The government proposal envisages a significant impact on the state budget and other public budgets. However, it primarily envisages an impact on the expenditure side of the state budget for this proposed legislation to establish a record of replacement transactions, since in this area, where even according to the Ministry of Labour it is possible to expect a possible increase in budgetary costs. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs wants to discuss this amendment within a shorter period of 30 days. However, as rapporteur, I must reject this proposal because it is a serious area on which there should be sufficient time to discuss it responsibly. Moreover, I must reiterate that I see the fundamental problem that this press is not being discussed at the same time as the Labour Code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-02-ps2013-053-04-004-034.u13	I thank the rapporteur for her intelligence report. I am opening a general debate in which I have one application at the moment, Mrs Adamová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-02-ps2013-053-04-004-034.u14	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be very brief because the news report by Mrs Jírovcová Aulická was very comprehensive. And I thank her for that, because she's come across a whole bunch of things that I would have said differently here. Let me just remind you that we have the 2004 Employment Act, and it has been amended 60 times since then, which is five amendments a year, when we take it really only on average, and that certainly does not contribute to the stability of the legal and business environment. That's not going beyond this government, that's just a general statement. Although these were often only partial changes, I think we should always tell and take into account the fact that amendments are always necessary here. However, more extensive amendments were made in 2011, which were then taken into account in the ongoing austerity measures. This amendment focuses on traditional risk areas such as agency employment, replacements, adjustments to non-cooling employment, but then there are parametric or minor changes. And I would like to point out three of the main complaints that I have about this bill, and I agree with the rapporteur that we should discuss this together with the Labour Code, because these standards are very related. Therefore, to the proposed changes regarding non-cooling employment carried out in the form of an agreement to carry out work, which is then to be an obstacle to the registration of a citizen as a candidate for employment, I must say that this is an absurd provision from many perspectives. Imagine a situation where someone will help a famous one-time cleaning after painting at the base of a work agreement. Based on that, he'll be eliminated from the record. So the state is essentially forcing him to do it illegally within the grey economy without proper taxation. The employer may not be able to test the unemployed in the form of an employment agreement before accepting him for stable work. Another situation that won't be able to take place. The unemployed would prefer to lie at home because the state forbade him to take a one-time or short-term job. So it is thoughtless and improperly grasped. Perhaps only a seed bead drawing up the absurdity of the proposed measure is that the employment agreement can be concluded by the jobseeker, even if it is so small that there is no obligation to pay social security. The idea that an employer would prefer to accept an unemployed person for permanent employment when the State forbids him to conclude a contract for carrying out the work is completely misguided. Another area, agency employment, compulsory bail for agencies is a newly introduced measure to ensure the solvency of the Agency vis-à-vis the state budget. The deposit of the proposed amount of CZK 500 000 is an important obstacle to entry into business in the field, recording already functional agencies that have sufficient financial reserves. A bail system for starting a business, for example recently. In the field of fuel distribution, now in the field of agency employment, it is not right. The state borrows interest-free funds from entrepreneurs, which, in my view, can be successfully challenged by the courts. Moreover, it is not possible to use a bank guarantee in the proposal, which I think is possible for the distribution of fuel, and in the explanatory memorandum, the proposed bail is devoted to a comprehensive passage justifying the legality of the proposed adjustment, which I think only proves that the petitioner is aware of the risks of the very unconstitutional nature of the measure. And the last thing I would like to point out, because I think that the next debate should really take place in the committees and we should not shorten the time limit for the hearing, because it is a fundamental change, is the efficiency mentioned. It is designed from the 15th day after publication in the Collection of Laws. I think that's too short a time, it's really outrageous. The adjustment concerns a large range of citizens and business entities, so the standard legisvacation period should be respected so as to be able to prepare for this. We should not really allow such a short period of time, just two weeks, to have individual subjects to adapt to a new standard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-02-ps2013-053-04-004-034.u15	Thank you, Mrs Markéta Adamová. Now in the debate, Mr Jaroslav Zavadil. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-02-ps2013-053-04-004-034.u16	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, good day, colleagues and colleagues, dear government. Despite all the reservations I have heard here, I would like to speak with a proposal that would change this Employment Act, discuss and discuss without unnecessary delay within 30 days. I'll explain why. I was swamped last week, not only by e-mails, but also by phone calls from employers' representatives, representatives of those physically disabled, because there is one thing at risk. That if all this fails to be discussed within this period, they will not receive funds to match the minimum wage that they will have to settle, as it was intended. For all these reasons, although I understand some comments, I will ask this honourable House for the possibility of shortening the deadline to 30 days, so that this amendment is actually put into effect in the next year as soon as possible, in order to avoid the problem that I say employers would not receive financial flows to compensate for those people who are employed with minimum wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-02-ps2013-053-04-004-034.u17	I thank Mr Jaroslav Zavadil and now I am asking Mr Vladislav Vilímec - I am not mistaken, my colleague - to speak in the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-02-ps2013-053-04-004-034.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I won't talk long. There are quite a lot of changes to this press, not just the one the chairman of the committee spoke of. That is why I am in favour of discussing this within the standard time limit, and we will decide by vote. I do not want to go back to the complaints that fell here from Mrs Adamová, partly from the rapporteur, I agree with many of these complaints. I think it is necessary to pay due attention to this in committee. When I read the bill, I realized, and it is worth noting that such a trend in the current government is either to do everything to the commission, or to create some records or registers that can be viewed publicly. So I would pierce this, because it's very sensitive stuff. Not everything will probably be made available, but it is very sensitive and we should weigh whether to implement these things in this way. So is the commission. This will be done by the Commission at the Labour Office or by the Director-General of the Labour Office in connection with the granting of permits for mediation by those employment agencies will create a commission, which, of course, also requires some financial costs. When I looked - and this is my last point, because I don't want to delay - what the implications of this bill are in public budgets, I learned that there will only be consequences. I don't think that's how a government proposal should be prepared, which should be prepared much more clearly, more honestly. We all know there will be consequences. I would like to, because I have not learned from the explanatory report what the financial implications will be - yes, I am looking for it here, but I will not read that there will be significant impacts, I do not know if there is a significant word in the explanatory report - so I would like to ask the Minister to explain what the financial implications of the various provisions of the bill are. At the very least, I think the Chamber of Deputies should know. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-02-ps2013-053-04-004-034.u19	I thank Mr Vilímc and I note that I have no further application for the debate. No one's reporting in, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Madam Secretary is not interested, the rapporteur is not interested. There has not been any proposal for repayment or rejection in the debate. Isn't that right, rapporteur? [[Yes.]] And the only proposal has been made in the debate, which is a reduction to 30 days. However, first of all, we will consider the proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone else have a proposal for a guarantee committee? I'll check you out and ask you for a new registration, sign up with your I.D. cards. And since no one is proposing another guarantee committee, we will decide in the 100 vote that the Social Policy Committee will be the Guarantee Committee of this press. The number of applicants is stabilizing, so I can vote on the guarantee committee. I have begun voting number 100 and I ask who is the guarantee committee for the Social Policy Committee. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 100 of the 129 present for 126, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion to order another committee, other committees or committees of the Chamber of Deputies? It's not like that. In that case, we have to vote on the shortening of the time limit for discussion proposed by Mr Zavadil. That is what we will decide in the vote number 101, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of shortening the time limit for committee discussions. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 101 of the 132 Members present for 61 Members, against 42. The motion was denied. In that case, I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee and the deadline for discussion remains 60 days under the Rules of Procedure Act. Thank you, Madam Secretary, thank you to the rapporteur, and I finish point 34. Before we proceed, I state my apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Fiedler from 13.15 to the end of the day. Now we go back to the third reading program and it's point 190. It's...
