ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u1	127. Members Petr Fiala's proposal, Zbyněk Stanjura, Jana Černochová, Miroslava Němcová and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 360/2014 Coll., amending Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended, and other related laws /house print 649/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 The Government's position has been delivered to you as House Press 649/1. prosit have Mr Petr Fiala, Mr Petr Fiala, present the motion put forward by the representatives of the appellants. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that today we can finally focus on our proposal. I hope this means that the government coalition has acknowledged that the control reports that have become effective since this January are problematic and that the government coalition is interested in discussing our proposal to postpone it. Finally, the government and the finance minister themselves have acknowledged that the law is not well written, it is poorly written, it needs to be amended in the near future. I think it just confirms our arguments. It proves that we were right, that the control reports are not only pointless, but also poorly written, poorly prepared. It is not prepared for the business public, it is not prepared for the state, or the Ministry of Finance, Financial Administration. Something needs to be done and the law needs to be corrected. We are giving the government coalition a second chance to correct something that it has failed, not to expose entrepreneurs to the effectiveness of this law, which will cause them a lot of complications, and from this point of view, I hope that this time not only our proposal will be able to be discussed, but above all, to discuss it successfully and that you will support the postponement of the law. Before I argue why it is necessary to postpone the effectiveness of the law, I want to make it clear that the Civil Democratic Party does not agree with the whole principle of law. We consider him wrong. The moment we get to the government, we cancel the inspection report, we do it immediately, because it's just harassing businessmen, it doesn't bring anything positive. But at this point, we are proposing to postpone efficiency and give the government a chance to correct what is wrong and allow entrepreneurs to prepare themselves well for this law and its impact. If you don't, you will purposely cause a law that is poorly prepared to apply, contains senseless fines, extremely short time limits to correct errors. Now you can argue that you're fixing it, but unfortunately, you can't fix it fast enough to keep the businessman from hitting it. I am here at an emergency meeting where you have not approved the programme and prevented us from discussing our proposal, thanks to the priority right to make all the essential arguments as to why the effectiveness of this law should be shifted. I'm not gonna repeat everything I said. My reasoning was very detailed. However, I will recall at least the basic reasons for which efficiency needs to be postponed. The proposal brings further bureaucracy to taxpayers. A month before the deadline for the first reporting, which is sometimes February 25, it is clear that the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Administration failed to inform entrepreneurs. When we look at the survey of the Chamber of Commerce from the end of last year, we will see that about a fifth of entrepreneurs were prepared for tax liability. I don't really believe the numbers have changed much. I would also remind you that delaying the effectiveness of the law was supported by institutions such as the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Managers and Entrepreneurs and the Institute itself, for example, by the Chamber of Advocates, the Chamber of Tax Advisors. I would also like to remind you that a group of senators has given rise to the Constitutional Court, and therefore it would be logical to wait, to take advantage of the possibility of delaying the effectiveness of the Constitutional Court's ruling. Furthermore, I recall that according to the explanatory memorandum, the control report is also closely linked to the electronic record of sales, which was to be introduced by the government's original idea at the beginning of this year. That's obviously not gonna happen. Another reason to postpone the inspection report. As the last reason, I would recall what I said at the beginning. The government itself has already discussed an amendment to this law to mitigate sanctions, but the regulation will not be in force for more than a few months and during this time the authorities will severely punish entrepreneurs. What you consider to be wrong will fall on businessmen and cannot prevent it at this time. You have the only way to prevent this, and it is to support our proposal to postpone efficiency by one year and, in the course of the year, to try to inform the business public and, on the one hand, to correct the biggest mistakes in this poorly prepared law. We'd cancel the inspection report, but we're offering you a hand in this matter. We offer - let us agree to postpone the effectiveness of this law and do something at this time for entrepreneurs together so that they do not fall ill-prepared law. I think that if some of you go beyond the shadow of your own vanity, you will admit a mistake, which you actually did by immediately reviewing, amending the effective law, and pulling the emergency brake at the last possible time, you will do something good for entrepreneurs and taxpayers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u3	Thank you, Mr. plaintiff. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading by Mr Václav Votava. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u4	Yes, thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would be more or less confined to the Government's position, which is therefore House Press 649/1. The government disagreed with this proposal. It is not for me to quote the basic things that led to the government's disapproval. The Government rejects the claim that the information of the entities concerned by the control report has been neglected. Press releases, articles in national newspapers, dozens of articles on the Internet, lectures, debates for professional associations and chambers, information posters, etc. etc. The government considers the introduction of a control report as one of the steps towards the settlement of the market environment of the Czech Republic. Furthermore, the Government states that the reason for the delay in the obligation to submit control reports is not even linked to the introduction of electronic sales records. Control reports of VAT payers and electronic sales records are measures that should lead to better tax collection and reduction of tax evasion. So very briefly from the government's position. Of course, everyone has the press, so they can read in more detail. Something else, of course, is to alleviate the hardness of sanctions. Both the Ministry of Finance and the government have certainly acknowledged the need to reconsider, but I'm sure the Minister of Finance will talk about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate, which was the first to be heard by President Kalousek, after whom Vice-President Kučera, followed by Minister Babiš. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will allow myself to turn not to the government, not to the Minister of Finance, because it is obviously not worth it, where the position has already been adopted and we have been familiar with the position, but I will be able to address, in particular, the members of the coalition partners of the ANO movement and the Minister of Finance. We were here when the law was being discussed, even after the colleagues submitted this amendment, arguing why the law was harmful in this form and at this time. Why costs will be infinitely greater than revenues. Why he's a legislative son of a bitch. You passed a law that uses legally invalid terms, if you don't know. Why there are a lot of things that make it possible for the state and not for the will. And yet you didn't hear us, yet you passed the law. Your finance minister himself said quite recently that the law is bad in many ways, and now he's naming exactly the arguments we put forward, but you didn't want to hear them! Now your minister himself says, well, it didn't work out here. And now an amazing reason: she overreacted to the Financial Administration. She misspelled the Financial Administration. Frankly, that sentence would be alarming, even if the Financial Administration wrote it well. Financial administration isn't here to write laws. It's a repressive organ. That is why the Ministry is the central body of the state administration, which makes up legislation. The repressive body must then behave according to approved legislation. So just this practice at the Treasury Department is alarming. Above all, it does not mean an alibi at all, because the law presents a minister to the government, not the Financial Administration. The minister can't say, the Financial Administration or my deputy or my officials. He's responsible! He passed the wrong law to the government, which he was willing to say was wrong, but only when it was approved! And approved even though we argued basically the same way he did when he said the law was wrong, in some areas. That responsibility is borne by the Minister. Then I listened to the public debate, and I heard President Whitebread. He said, "The Minister of Finance is responsible for this." And I heard the Prime Minister say, "This is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance." But this is, please, nonsense! Because the government of the Czech Republic is presenting the law to the Chamber of Deputies. And both President Bělobrádek and other ministers for KDU-ČSL, as well as Prime Minister Sobotka and other ministers for the Government Party of Social Democracy have their qualified professional apparatus, which should have written to them that it is paskvil, the bill. And if I am properly informed, it was actually written to some ministers by their professional apparatus. That it's a paquilas! However, the ministers said to themselves: we will not anger the Minister of Finance, we will approve his pasquil and then we will say that it is his responsibility. And I would like to tell you, my dear colleagues from social democracy and dear colleagues from KDU-ČSL, that this is their responsibility exactly as much as the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. Because the government brought it together. And that is your responsibility as members of the KDU-ČSL and members of social democracy and as members of the YES. Because you're conscious, and now you know, now even the Minister of Finance has admitted it, approved the pasquil! There's only one chance - to delay efficiency. And since the government itself, which is willing to admit that it is a pasquil, amends the law that has not yet taken effect, then postpone the efficiency and the amendment properly so that when the law becomes effective, it is no longer a pasquil, in the words of its creator, the translator of the Minister of Finance. Because it's really not the responsibility of the Financial Administration. This is primarily the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, who has submitted pasquil to the government. It is primarily the responsibility of the government, which has submitted pasquil to the Chamber of Deputies. And it will be the responsibility of every one of you who approves the pasquil, even though he heard from the Minister of Finance that it really didn't work out, that the Financial Administration overreacted and that we're going to have to amend it. Do you really insist that this must take effect? That we can't postpone it for six months? And in the meantime, redeploy so that it's even a little bit bearable? So at least the petitioner doesn't have to criticize it? Who criticizes this even before it came into effect? Do you really want to present to the public this quality of the legislative process? Do you want to stand up for her and say, "I, the MP, and he, have raised my hand for this, or have I raised my hand against this with full responsibility"? That I want the pasquil to come into effect, which I know is already being amended by the government, and that even the finance minister who is keeping you -- well, until we approve the amendment, we won't really follow the law that much. We're like, if it's broken, we're gonna wink at it. Maybe this is how you behave in Agrofert. It is not possible to behave like this in a democratic rule of law, because that right either applies or does not apply. And if you make him pay, and at the same time you respect that the one that... I'll wait for Mr. Foldyna to testify.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u7	I am very sorry, colleagues, but if you wish to speak, please transfer your calls to the lobby and let the President speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u8	Thank you. One more time. Maybe this is how you behave in Agrofert. I don't know what internal regulations are there, but it is not possible to behave like this in a democratic rule of law, where the law applies, and then we have to respect it, or it doesn't apply, but it is not possible for you to decide that it will apply now, it will be effective, and at the same time we will be satisfied with the soothing of the Finance Minister: If it is valid, it will be effective, we will not act like that again, don't worry, and until then we will improve it. That's how he communicates. That's how you hear it, that's how you're willing to settle for it and claim to be members of the rule of law. I think we only have one option. I'm really going to postpone this efficiency until - and I'll never agree to this - but before we're all able to say yes, it's either good or it's bad, but it's just going to follow it, and not that it's going to freeze the eye or it's not going to freeze the eye, depending on how high-level stairs raise the thumb up, or it's going to lift the thumb down. That's the end of the rule of law, if that's what you want to settle for. And I want to tell you that you will be responsible for this. Then I have another little reminder that has to do with it seemingly remotely, but very narrowly. The Minister of Finance informed us of the huge diplomatic success that there is a great chance that the pilot project of reverse charge in the Czech Republic will be approved in the Czech Republic, somewhere else, and we will be tested for how it works. I have a lot of sympathy for this. In my time, I introduced reverse charge for a whole series of commodities, where the Sixth Directive allowed it, whether it was scrap, emission allowances, gold, construction work, and everywhere we met not with 100% but mostly positive results. I have tried, in vain and just like my successors, whether their names were Janota, Fischer or Babiš, to make an exception at least for fuel, because there is the biggest problem of the carousel shops. That exception was never granted to us. If the reverse charge system had been introduced for a year or two in the whole single European market, I would have thought it was a good thing, and I would have voted in favour. I'm not 100% sure about the result, but I'm sure it would be worth it. From this point of view, I appreciate the Minister's efforts. But to introduce it only in the territory of the Czech Republic and not anywhere else, it means to sign up to the fact that I will make the Czech Republic an experimental laboratory, that in the Czech Republic and anywhere else small and medium-sized entrepreneurs will have to lead double reporting, that I will overwhelm them with an incredible administrative burden, that I will cause them a huge problem in cross-border trade, because my business partner in Austria, Poland, anywhere else he will say: Well then that Faltýnek or Mr Volný, he has to run double reporting, I have to respond to it in my VAT reporting, it is such a complication for me that I prefer to buy it from someone else. This, combined with the VAT control report and the electronic sales log, is already a death cocktail. Minister, for God's sake, who gave you the mandate to make the Czech Republic a laboratory for the entire European Union? Yes, many partners pat you on the back because they say: This is excellent, at the expense of the administrative burden of Czech entrepreneurs we will see how it works. But if you push through this, and I still hope you don't, that means that really, everyone in my country who trades a little bit across the border is going to run two reports. You create a huge comparative competitive disadvantage, which, of course, big corporations can handle, those accounting companies can handle, but those little businesses in the border can't. And here I am turning again to coalition partners, not to the Minister, it's obviously not worth it. You'll be responsible for that, too. When František Janáček suddenly finds out in Šumava who trades with his partner in Austria that he has to conduct double reporting, not one, but two, that he has twice the administrative work for one deal, I do not want to hear from KDU-ČSL and ČSSD that Minister Babiš is to blame. It's all your fault that you let him do this because you heard the arguments on time, just like you did with the VAT report. I'm begging you to think about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u9	I thank Prime Minister Kalousek. Now with priority rights, Vice-President of the TOP 09 and starosta Michal Kučera. After that, Minister Babiš, President Sklenák, President Faltýnek and Member of Foldyna. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u10	Thank you for the floor. I would now return to the VAT payer's inspection report, i.e. I would like to say a few reasons why it is good to postpone this efficiency by really one year. I, at some point in the middle of last year, had an interview with Minister Babiš on the matter of the inspection report, where I stated the reasons why the inspection report in this form was not well prepared. Minister Babiš probably listened to the interview, responded according to his marketing manuals and took no lessons from it, because the mistakes I pointed out are still in the law, and even Minister Babiš himself is now announcing that because of these mistakes this law will be amended. The fact that the inspection report introduces a monthly mandatory inventory of all sales and purchases, with the indication of the business partner and his identification, is clear to all of us today. It's a major breakthrough in business secrets. The fact that it burdens all entrepreneurs across the board, rather than focusing on the dishonest ones, and specifically on the dishonest ones, to deal with them, and of course, as it is customary for Minister Babiš, he has broken down this obligation on all and has burdened the honest ones in particular. Monthly VAT payers regularly submit some information on a monthly basis, they have an obligation, i.e. another burden, however, in this monthly rhythm they are likely to be able to adapt somehow. Of course, quarterly VAT payers are much worse off because they have the quarterly rhythm. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] I've seen it somewhere, and I think we've already talked about it here, that there was a survey of Deloitte's financial company that says 80 percent of companies aren't ready for EET today. And those mistakes aren't just on the side of the companies, I'm warning you. I haven't noticed a massive campaign anywhere, a massive information campaign about what a control report means, how to prepare for it. Of course, there were some courses in which entrepreneurs could apply for a fee and where something was explained to them, rather to those tax advisors. But there was no massive campaign, 80 percent of entrepreneurs are unprepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u11	I am very sorry, Mr Vice-President. I'll ask my colleagues to keep your voice down so you can finish your speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u12	As far as we know, of course, that one of the main criteria of decision-making for Minister Babiš is, in addition to election surveys, surveys of all kinds, I am surprised that on the basis of this survey, he has not really done this to delay its effectiveness. However, the main argument for delaying the effectiveness of the inspection report was given to us by Minister Babiš himself at the last hearing. And I dare to quote him here. He states of this amendment - I quote: "It is not very good, but we haven't had one like it here in 25 years. " I further quote Minister Babiš: "You are right that we overreacted in sanctions. We want to make this right, and that's why we're proposing a novel." So by the time the law was passed, Minister Babiš knew that there were fundamental errors, yet he had this amendment approved. What's the novel gonna bring? In his view, for example, the amendment is intended to forgive all fines of CZK 1000 for failure to submit a check report within the relevant deadline. The amendment to the Act, which has been effective since the beginning of January, will also allow further fines to be waived. According to Minister Babiš, the financial administration will be flexible in this respect. That's good news for our businessmen. The flexibility of the tax office in tax controls is exactly what we need! On what basis will it be flexibility - I really don't want to even conceive right now. I must say, Minister Babiš went the other way before he criticized. He's always criticized such a - a little rudely said blunt cuts. I would like to say that Minister Babiš and his amendments to the laws are going the opposite way, I would call it the blunt collection of money from citizens. Dull collection of money from citizens, that's what I'd call it. And why do I have to call it that? Because the first thing the Minister of Finance was to be the engine and driving force at a time of economic growth is reform. Minister Babiš will collect money, burden tax entities, burden entrepreneurs, burden ordinary people - and what will happen to that money? They end up in that black hole in that unreformed state budget. Where is the reform of the social system? Where is the health reform? Where is the reform of the pension system? Minister Babiš absolutely let that go. That's his biggest political loss. He only dullly withdraws money from people and puts it in the black hole of an unreformed budget. At a time of economic growth, I warn you. At a time of economic growth! Of course, here I can mention other arguments as to why it is not good to introduce control reports. There's so much debate about data management. We've seen several times just breaking the systems. The businessman is really going to reveal everything there. It reveals the bowels of its society. He reveals who he deals with, where he buys, how much he buys, who he sells, what he sells for. And all of us who have worked outside the state sphere or government know that this data is absolutely essential. Of course, for some large technological units it doesn't matter, where the price is created differently and the shopping conditions there are not so dramatic. But if you're buying a commodity type screw, and I'm going to mention the connecting material here, the connecting material - the business is built on how much I buy and where I buy, what business conditions I get, and what business conditions I can negotiate. Minister Babiš can completely cancel this business with the inspection report. Ladies and gentlemen, what I blame for the inspection report, and it has been heard from my previous speakers, is his unpreparedness. I don't have to agree with him, I can vote against him, but I know that if the law passes, at least he won't be a legislative scumbag as it is today. It is legitimate to choose to make a legitimate decision against it, but I think it is illegitimate to vote for the legislative bastard prepared by Minister Babiš. I'd like to say that the TOP 09 is going the other way. We want to reduce the administrative burden on entrepreneurs. It's already been discussed by a single collection point, which was supposed to ease entrepreneurs and which was the very government that dropped the table. But it is also a submitted amendment that has been here in the House for a long time without getting on the agenda, and it is the amendment of a unified control point to simplify the administration and bureaucracy of entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, the ANO movement has often claimed that it is a right-wing movement, that it is a movement that wants to support entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, he's going the other way. If this were not the case, at least our proposals would have been discussed at least if nothing else. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, let me just say that by delaying this amendment, we will give a chance to correct these dramatic mistakes that I have been talking about and which my previous speakers have been talking about without putting the entrepreneurs, businessmen and citizens of this Czech Republic at risk. [[say]] I turn you, ladies and gentlemen, and now I turn to the KDU-ČSL side, I turn to the ČSSD side, I really call you - let us postpone the inspection report for one year. Let us allow the mistakes that Minister Babiš himself admits to be corrected without turning our businessmen into guinea pigs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u13	Thank you, Vice-President Kučer. Now two factual points. First of all, Mr David Kasal. He's not here, so he's failing his point of view. With another factual remark, Mr Jeroným Tejc. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u14	Mr Vice-President, colleagues, thank you for the opportunity to react briefly. I would respond not only to my previous speaker, but also to President Kalousek, not to the text of the tax law, I am certainly not an expert, and I will leave this to my fellow Members from the budget committee, but rather from a legal point of view. There's a concern that we're gonna keep it as it was said here, and I don't quite agree with it, some legislative bastard in effect. I would like to point out that, on the contrary, we will make the bastard 100% if we now proceed to the proposal that the right here has put forward for one simple reason. The proposal wants to postpone the effectiveness of some of the provisions of 1. 1. 2016 to 1. 1. 2017. So I would like to point out to my dear colleagues who have submitted this bill that we are already after 1. 1. 2016, and therefore delaying something that has already taken effect is at least questionable. Of course, there are a few legal opinions on whether or not this is possible, but we will create so many problems in tax matters that will be dealt with subsequently by the courts, administrative courts, the Constitutional Court and others that, in my view, it is better to wait for a proper amendment, which, in my opinion, if we agree here in the House and the opposition is willing to support a rapid negotiation, if they are interested in those corrections, if the interest is really serious and it is not just an attempt to parasite this situation, then it will certainly be a better solution than this attempt to back up something that has already happened. I am really very concerned about whether this is possible and, moreover, whether the text, as it is, because it does not remember, for example, various transitional provisions, is really legal. [[Time limit alert.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u15	Thank you. With a point of fact, now President Stanjura, President Kalousek, also with a point of fact, followed by Minister Babiš duly registered. Please, Prime Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u16	I would like to respond to the words of my previous speaker. For the Member Your daughter through you - I share the concerns with you in part. I really do. But why didn't you come forward at point 6 of today's agenda when we were discussing a government proposal, not a opposition, about a income tax that has been effective since 1 January 2016? And at second reading, we discussed this press on January 19, 2016. So when it's a government proposal, we're drawing attention to the problem, and I admit that it really exists - when it's an opposition proposal, and when it's a government proposal, we keep quiet about it. It's the same case. The Minister of Finance assures the public that it can be so peacefully, whether he is not afraid that the law is not yet passed in the House, but when it passes through the House and the Senate, and he knows that we will support him, the Income Tax Act, so that the House will approve it, there is no doubt, so it will be effective back from 1 January 2016. So why do we go one day and not draw attention to the risks - and I think income tax affects a lot more people than VAT. When you compare the number of taxpayers on income from dependent activity, who, for example, apply a discount on a child, there is certainly much more of them than in the VAT Act. And to be fair, let us at least admit that we discussed this in September, October, November 2014, about disproportionate sanctions and short deadlines. We didn't sleep the way you blamed us. You ignored it, and now you're putting it out at the last minute! So measure them all the same. And I'm not downplaying those concerns. Not really.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u17	Thank you to President Stanjur. Now, with a point of fact, President Kalousek, followed by a point of fact by Minister Babiš, followed by Mr Tejc. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u18	Thank you. I also share to some extent the concerns of Mr Tejc, in agreement with my previous speaker, although I think that the interpretation is not clear. However, the problem is that we, colleagues and colleagues, have said so. We said that before you passed the law. And you were completely deaf. You didn't want to hear it. And yet you approved it. And now you say yes through Mr Tejc's mouth, you were right, there were a lot of things wrong, we have to fix it quickly, but it's already valid, it's already effective, and we have to stay in the wrong. That's very sad! And it is a business card especially for your work, colleagues from social democracy and KDU-ČSL. Babiš can't be blamed, he can't do it and he's trying. Problem is, you bought it. And now it's your problem. Because the fact that the law is clearly wrong, which you admit to yourself, is your responsibility because you knew it, but for some reason you were so afraid of Babiš, or you had so much business with him that you approved the law that you knew was wrong. And whoever pays for it is a citizen of the Czech Republic. To this irresponsibleness of yours!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u19	Thank you to President Kalousek. Now Minister Babiš with a point of fact, after which Mr Tejc, then Mr Faltýnek also made a point of fact. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u20	Thank you. I've applied to the facts, because there's a clear tactic that I can't get to the point. I don't know what I did to the coalition MPs on the grémium. Why are you doing this to me to listen to 45 minutes of this bullshit and lies and nonsense? Mr. Fiala is approaching Kalousek demagogy, and Mr. Kučera has perfectly replaced Mr. Laudát here. [[Fun in the hall.]] The law is great! [[Applause in different parts of the hall.]] That bill will bring 10 billion a year. [[He speaks very loudly.]] It's not true that I said the law was wrong! We wanted to meet businessmen. And if you don't want to, we'll cancel the novel. And I will tell my movement that we will also vote against the coalition and say to all entrepreneurs: Here the opposition - we wanted to be helpful. And we're gonna keep the law as it is. And you just woke up? This law has been passed by 22. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So what did you just wake up? Control reports are a great law. We just said we'd ease the fines. And that we'd be helpful. And if you don't want to make it worse for our businessmen, then we're not gonna do it, the novel, and we're gonna let it go the way it is. The law is valid, everyone knows it, everybody's ready, and you're lying! I've been campaigning for it, I've read it x-times, how many 100,000 texts, how many ads, how many events we've done. So what are you talking about now? Again, I don't understand why we're discussing this today. Why did the Grémium approve me listening to 45 minutes of nonsense, demagogy and lies? They've never done anything to collect taxes. Yes. Mr. Kalousek with his friend The book was just being robbed by the Financial Administration. [[Time, Minister.]] And they didn't do anything! And now they're talking!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u21	I thank Minister Babiš for his point of view. Now, with Mr Tejc's factual remark, Mr Faltýnek, Mr Foldyna, Mr Stanjura, Mr Fiala. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u22	Thank you. First of all, I'd like something not to be put in my mouth about a confession to something. I didn't confess to anything here, nor do I intend to. I merely offered that if there is an interest from the opposition in change, if accepted by the coalition, there is no reason not to make these changes very quickly. But the way that's chosen here is wrong from a legal point of view. The difference is, above all, between the two tax proposals that there is something different when the efficiency has occurred to delay it, and something else is, if we approve a law that is to take effect retroactively when we are talking about a tax period. Of course, the issue of retroactivity will certainly not be easy even there, it will certainly be a topic, but it certainly cannot take the law back because we will not change time. So this will be resolved at third reading - at second and third reading in the framework of the debate on effectiveness. So much for explaining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u23	Thank you, Mr Tejc. Mr Faltýnek, Mr Foldyna, Mr Stanjura and others, is now making a point of fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u24	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I would take the liberty for all of us and especially for our public, for our entrepreneurs to translate into Czech what was said here from the mouths of my colleague Kalousek and Kučera, Fiala and others. I wrote it down, it is only one sentence: we will fight to the last man, to the last drop of blood for not paying taxes in our country, as we did in our government, and we will do it further, in which we are consistent, and our voters know it well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u25	I thank Mr Faltýnek. With another point of fact, Mr Foldyna, Mr Stanjura and Mr Fiala thereafter. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think the opposition has the right to criticize. It was an interesting criticism, it was more like a fairy tale, a travesty to what was happening here in the last parliamentary term, when religious restitutions were approved, when church restitutions were agreed and a treaty with churches quickly signed before the Constitutional Court. We can definitely return to this law after a year if it has any defects. However, we will never return to valorizing the religious restitutions, to the billions that we will have to give from the Czech Republic's budget, thanks to what you have shown here in the last parliamentary term, we can never go back to that. You signed contracts that are inexcusable, and the state would lose huge billions. So you're rocking the nation, but you've forgotten you're already rocking it upside down. So a little slow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u27	Thank you, Mr Foldyn. With another point of fact, President Stanjura, then President Fiala, followed by Mr Kučera. Please, Prime Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u28	I hope that President Faltýnek will receive a round stamp from the court expert, to whom he translates from Czech into Czech. I am therefore opposed to you misinterpreting our words and lying so shamelessly. [[Laughter from the YES ranks.]] You can laugh about it, you can laugh about it, it's about you, not me. None of what President Faltýnek said is true. And you can read the log. I'd really like to see the translator, and I'll ask Mr. Faltýnek to tell me that if I say that unnecessary bureaucratic duty is equal to the last drop of blood, I'm gonna defend not paying taxes, it really takes a vivid imagination. I'm adding it to the late-night hour, because earlier, at the normal time of the meeting, you weren't willing to discuss it. [[20.50 hours]] To Mr Tejc through the President. We're not talking about paying VAT. We're talking about an unnecessary form. You can just circle around here like it's different. Today was the second reading of the Income Tax Act, I did not notice that someone from the government coalition, for example, from the point of view of a legal expert, proposed the amendment to address the problematic effectiveness of the House's 612 press. Who's confusing the public here? After the second reading, I hear: we'll sort it out at second reading. Well, that's not gonna work. Unless you propose a return to the second at the third reading and we consider such a proposal. I don't know how we'd treat it. But, indeed, President Faltýnek, through the Vice-President, do not translate our words from Czech into Czech, do not give them any other meaning, nor do I. We talk very often about leading a fight correctly without personal attacks. This was a dirty personal attack, nothing else!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u29	Thank you to President Stanjur. Now, President Fiala, with a point of fact, after whom Vice-President Kučera. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u30	Because I'm sure of my arguments, I don't have to resort here to swearing and upsetting, as some of the coalitions here have done. Well, Minister of Finance, let me remind you of some facts. We argued against the inspection report in the autumn of 2014, we did not agree with it, we told you what the problems would be. We were right. We respected the fact that you pushed for it, it was the will of the majority. When we saw that you were unable to prepare it, that you were not able to prepare the business public for it, that there were problems with it, so at the beginning of November we suggested delaying efficiency. You've done everything you can to keep us from discussing this. The government has taken advantage of the maximum deadline it has, and you have prevented us from attending an emergency meeting. Well, here we are today. But it's not our fault, it's your fault. And that's a mistake you're not going to pay for, but it's going to be paid for by the business community. If I were cynical, I'd say so well, keep it, don't do it, don't delay efficiency, don't do anything, but entrepreneurs will see what you've put on them, what stupidity you've done, and you'll pay politically for it. But I'm not cynical because I don't want to have the political success of my own political party at the expense of entrepreneurs, based on an experiment with entrepreneurs like you do. And I'll tell you one thing. Those businessmen aren't as stupid as you think they are. You don't fool them with your media campaign and your media power. Sooner or later they will know, and they will recognize it now, who really defends the interests of honest entrepreneurs and who defends their interests and wants to complicate the business environment, create unequal conditions and hit those honest middle and small entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With another factual remark, Vice-President Kučera, after whom President Kalousek, Mrs Šánová. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u32	Thank you for your word. I'm just going to respond quickly to a few of my previous speakers. To my colleague, Foldyn, who pulled out his favorite restitution here, I would like to remind you that the restitution of a financial settlement of 60 billion. total, but solar tunnel 42 billion. Every year, approved thanks to your colleague from ČSSD's amendment. 42 billion. Every year. But let's leave it at that. To Mr Faltýnek through Mr President. I know he's sticking to the marketing line that his marketers advised him to constantly remind him of the unwillingness to pay taxes and to support the inequality, etc. Of course, we all know that you've learned it somewhere from marketing lessons. Of course, entrepreneurs will see it in those specific steps. However, the main reason why I came forward is because of the serious statement made by Minister Babiš here. Minister Babiš here, in my opinion, threatened the coalition partners that if they didn't cooperate, there would be no amendment. Even MEPs applauded it for YES. So Minister Babiš says that the law is not very good, that there are mistakes, that it has been exaggerated in sanctions, etc., on the one hand, and on the other hand says: if you do not cooperate, honourable coalition MPs, there will be no amendment. And the members of the YES are applauding him. Gentlemen and ladies, I feel sorry for you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u33	With another point of fact, President Kalousek, then Mrs Šánová, then Minister Babiš. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u34	Thank you, Mr President. I have a Mr. Faltýnek... Please stop my time. Gentlemen speak so loudly that I will not shout them out...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u35	Yes, I'll take that into account. Gentlemen, please transfer your calls to the galleys.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u36	Thank you. I have one question for President Faltýnek and one recommendation. The question is, if it were true that we didn't do anything for tax collection, on the contrary, we are trying not to be selected, how is it possible that in our government, more taxes have been levied on the basis of the product than on yours. I only rely on the Ministry of Finance's numbers. In absolute terms, given that the product has increased, it looks different, but if we take the percentage of tax collection from the product, our government has been significantly more effective in tax collection than yours. So how is that possible? And how is it that, on the contrary, after our government's departure and yours' arrival, despite the increase in Agrofert's revenues, its tax contributions are constantly decreasing? This is also not entirely clear to me about the fight against tax evasion. I think that would deserve a public answer, because they're open-source numbers again. And then one recommendation for the translation into Czech. I'm well aware of what I said here. What you said, Mr. Chairman Faltýnek, does not correspond to my wording. And if you really want to be an interpreter, I recommend that you provide this service to your party chairman and your mayor of the capital city of Prague. We are able to formulate our ideas ourselves in Czech. And in this case, I really agree with your party's rather harsh position that some immigrants are extremely dangerous to the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u37	Thank you to President Kalousek. With another factual remark by Mrs Šánová, after her Minister Babiš. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u38	Good evening, colleagues. Allow me, too, to join the debate on the inspection report. I would like, through Mr President, to my colleagues on the right. You know, the whole time we've been discussing the inspection report, it hasn't been said that in connection with the introduction of the inspection report, we're also going to be missing some forms and some forms that will be incorporated into the inspection report. And it is the customer's record or record and supplier's record of the transferred tax liability. It's integrated into the inspection report. That didn't sound like it. And I'm sorry to hear from my colleagues on the right that they're just freaking out our business public.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u39	I ask my colleagues not to shout at each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u40	To my colleagues on the right, through Mr President. I do not understand why a special massive campaign should be implemented in the monitoring report and why not in other amendments to other laws, why it only requires Mr Kučera, through Mr President, to carry out the inspection report. Anyone who wants information will find it. There's been countless trainings. Today it's already worked out, they're already trained to work in accounting programs, it's all worked out, so whoever wants it, they'll get the information. The person who only talks about the inspection report on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies and otherwise the information is not necessary for him, because he will no longer deal with it, then, of course, he does not seek information and therefore does not have it. As for my colleague Kalousek, through Mr President, I think that neither - thank you. [[Time, madam!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u41	I'm sorry. The last person to comment on the facts is Minister Babiš. Please, Minister. Minister, please give a brief speech, because today's meeting is over at 21:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u42	I'd just like to say that all businessmen are ready. They had a year. There was a campaign. The first report is submitted on 23 February, I think. Everyone knows that. So I'm having a really good time when Chairman Fiala, who could definitely teach me Czech or political science, is talking about businessmen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u43	I'm sorry, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u44	Indeed, President Fiala has no idea what an entrepreneur is. He doesn't know what business is. So do me a favor, don't give me business training. I know something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-009-127.u45	Thank you, Minister. It's the 21st hour, which concludes today's meeting day. I interrupt this item and interrupt the 39th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies by 9 a.m. tomorrow morning. Have a good evening.
