ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-012-032.u1	32. Government bill amending Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended, and other related laws /German press 886/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 We dealt with this House press on 16 September 2016 at the 49th meeting, when we interrupted the general debate. To begin with, it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill in the first reading. I ask the plaintiff of this point, Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán and the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Jeroným Tejc, to take - and have already taken up - their seats at the rapporteur's table, and we will continue with the interrupted general debate. Another party to the general debate is Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-012-032.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, the only one present here, colleagues, has passed some time, so I took the material with me to revive what I wanted for this material, and I will also ask the Minister if he could make any comments and, if so, if possible. then answer me in the debate so that I can vote wisely. So, for example, in § 33 Effective regrets are supplemented by crimes of terrorist financing, § 312d, and support and promotion of terrorism, § 312e. These are new facts, but it is not clear to me why there is also § 312f Threatening by a terrorist offence, because even with such a fact I can easily imagine that the perpetrator could take advantage of effective regret. In Section 35 The exclusion from limitation is supplemented by treason in point (b), § 309, but again it is not clear to me why the limitation could not also exclude § 312d Financing of terrorism. Then, if I look at Section 129, where there is a description of an organized criminal group, the description reads: "The organized criminal group is a community of at least three criminally responsible persons. " I don't know why we're putting this kind of emphasis on those criminally responsible people, because if he's a criminally responsible person, we can only find out how many times during this investigation, but even here, I'd like some way to clarify why this term was used by the Justice Department. And if I look at the next Section 129a of the Terrorist Group, it states that it is similar to a community of at least three criminally responsible persons with a more permanent character. You know, I mean, the terms, the ones that aren't exactly defined, so I'm afraid there's gonna be a bad interpretation. And I'd like to hear until there's some case-law that goes by the term "persistent character." It's a new term in criminal law, and I have a little bit of a theoretical legal problem with it. If I continue in this material, and I list here, I come to page 11, where § 312b of the Special Provisions on Effective Pity is mentioned. You know, to confess, I don't quite understand why this deed or this effective regret is listed here on the crime of participating in a terrorist group. And then we have § 312c Punishment of the agent. If I look, an agent, as far as we know, is a police officer fulfilling the duties of an agent under another law. And if we recall, right now in court, I think there's some case going on where there's talk about the extent to which a police agent is running a terrorist group, or what it's called as a terrorist group. So, in this new fact, we're going to give impunity to the agenda, but he basically, if it works as maybe in a case whose knowledge we don't have, but which is now being discussed in court and still discussing the extent to which the perpetrator was acting alone, or based on the instructions of a police agent, to what extent these agents will then be exonerated from the crime. The same paragraph, virtually. However, the same name of the agent's impunity is also in Section 363 of the Criminal Code. So we have the impunity of an agent, a police agent, in the Penal Code in two paragraphs. In § 312c and relates to the crime of participating in the activities of a terrorist group and then we have § 363, which is also called the impunity of an agent, only that agent relates to participation in an organized criminal group. [[18.10 hours]] If I have read the various facts, I understand what the European Union is calling us to do. Unfortunately, it's not quite our problem that the Justice Department has so long been unable to act, and we got to the list, now I don't know exactly what it's called, because I don't have it here with me. But we are in danger of certain sanctions and sanctions, and therefore the Justice Department is asking us to approve this law, even with the reservations I have just said, or the question marks I have at first reading. This means without putting him on committees at all, and we can continue to talk about these matters. I say for myself that I will not support approval at first reading, and I would like some things to be really discussed. Unless, of course, the Minister is able to answer them to me right here in plenary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-012-032.u3	I thank Mr Ondráček. Another duly registered member is Mr Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-012-032.u4	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I know that it is already 6:00 p.m. and no one is having any fun at all, and at the same time I say that we have promised the Ministry of Justice that we will not block the adoption of this bill. We will not block his discussion within the framework of Section 90 due to international commitments. And I keep my promises. I'm not blocking admission. I'll just explain why I won't raise my hand for this bill. And that is a real problem that we face as dealing with terrorism, and unfortunately, part of the questions are based on international conventions and other nonsense. I just don't know who's really writing them down. Sometimes I wonder who's writing them and if they're thinking about what they're writing. I have the biggest problems with § 312d and 312e. The financing of terrorism and, in particular, the promotion and promotion of terrorism. "Who publicly incites a terrorist offence to be committed, or who publicly approves a terrorist offence committed, or publicly extols its perpetrators, shall be punished for two to ten years in prison." Two years to ten years. In a situation where, even in this House, we are unable to agree on what a terrorist offence is and is not. Attacks by which groups in Syria are terrorism and which are not? The attacks of which groups within the Israeli-Palestinian conflicts are terrorism and which are not? I don't see my colleague Foldyna here, but I think we'd be deeply divided in the vision of Kosovo and the events that took place there. The same - with a number of Members from this House, of course, we will have a problem assessing the situation in Ukraine. Where it was terrorism, where it wasn't terrorism. Shoot down the plane that shot him down. And now we say that the approval of terrorist offences is under this devastating penalty. I'm putting it down - unfortunately, it's the part that we need to rewrite from international treaties. I'm just wondering who's negotiating for us in the international bodies. If ever the international authorities also admit that there are things in a world where different countries and different groups have a different point of view. I guess I understand if someone here wants to praise the attacks on the Paris subway or something. But we know that the September 11 attacks had already terrified the Western world and at least part of the Islamic and Arab world was celebrating on the streets, as it was all perfect. And now we are adopting some international conventions that tell us that verbal approval of such crimes is to be criminal and under this dramatic penalty. This, of course, also concerns the financing of terrorism - who financially or materially supports a group, a member or commit a terrorist crime, a crime of support and promotion of terrorism. This means that in the end, even the servers on which such an evaluation is based are potentially under a criminal rate of three to twelve years. And I also strongly convinced the Ministry that the rates should not be from five higher, but that they should at least lower the limits to fall. I'm just pointing it out. I think there's probably nothing we can do about it, but the results can be very sad in the end that we don't agree on which things are terrorism. And to threaten with such severe criminal sanctions for mere approval, or not even a suggestion, but for mere approval, I consider it to be an misunderstanding which may eventually lead to completely unpredictable judicial judgments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-012-032.u5	I thank Mr Benda. Mr. Černoch withdraws his application. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. Mrs Válková. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-012-032.u6	Mr President, dear colleagues, my dear colleagues, although I did not prepare myself as my previous speakers, I would like to point out that, of course, the support for a terrorist crime is not as impeccable as we have just heard here. Even in the Criminal Code, we have a list of terrorist offences. So I would not be afraid as my previous speaker, Mr Benda, that we will have the helpless opportunities to prosecute or even condemn someone for supporting and promoting terrorism. § 312e - who publicly incites to commit a terrorist offence. It's not a terrorist act, it's a terrorist crime. The signs of a terrorist crime are in the Code of Criminal Procedure. So he will fill the terrorist crime by, respectively. He will fill the substance of the promotion and promotion of terrorism by encouraging the commission of a terrorist offence. First of all, subjectively, there's a need for intent. Objective. It is precisely calculated here that he publicly approves the committed - or already committed - terrorist crime or publicly extols its perpetrators for it. So what are we playing at? What company are we in? Who's not scared at all? On the one hand, we fear migrants, sometimes refugees that are covered by the Geneva Convention and others. On the other hand, we have someone here who publicly approves a terrorist offence committed or praises its perpetrators, and we're afraid to sign it by raising our hand? I really don't understand this discussion. So, in criminal terms, I don't have a problem with that. This is not the vague nature of the crime, the promotion and promotion of terrorism. I think that the courts will be able to handle this well, and that we need to do the wrong thing, because we know how it ends in Western Europe, if young inexperienced and untrained people get into the snares of those who know how to deal with them. So I'm not at all surprised at the criminalisation of these negotiations, especially since they're already involved in a committed crime of terrorism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-012-032.u7	Thank you, Madame Válková. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-012-032.u8	Good evening, Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I'll be very brief. I am pleased that we have here this amendment, which addresses this issue, especially the financing of terrorism. I'm just a little sorry that we're going to be discussing this here in an accelerated regime, and yet practically identical thing, the same bill amendment, proposed by the Dawn Party's MP - the National Coalition a while ago, and then you, dear government coalition colleagues, rejected us with no need. And now we practically have to do the same thing here in a hurry so we don't have any problems with it. I admit that we had a bit of a tendency to even admit § 90 and do it right at first reading, because, of course, we would like to make some amendments to this. However, we understand that this issue is too serious for political points to be played on. So our MP club will support this amendment. However, for the next time, it might be nice to think about it, if the proposal that was taken from our workshop at the time from what they have in Slovakia, that means that there could be no problems within the European Union, if we simply didn't put it into second reading and adjust it according to our own, and we could have saved ourselves this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-012-032.u9	Thank you, Mr Lank. I'm asking who else. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-012-032.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not wish to speak on this issue because it was a purely legal issue in my opinion. But I was provoked here by the Dear Professor. Maybe I'll go into a different area than she thought, extra-legal. There is a definition of a national liberating struggle. On the one hand, it is terrorism, on the other hand, a struggle for self-determination, which is recognised by the UN as a possibility of committing a crime. We have here an exemplary example of the Mašín brothers, when if this law were to apply, we would probably have arrested former Prime Minister Topolánek for promoting and evaluating terrorism. It's a problem here in this, and that's why to just take it like they say, it's not really a big deal, it's really a big deal. And now, really, to look at the thing, how to evaluate what terrorism is, the definition of a crime, or what it isn't. It's just to say, "but he's gonna take the court down," so it's really a 50-50 lottery bet. And the courts, I really don't want us to go like this in that definition. Therefore, I would seriously consider the support of such a freely written and defined law, when even in our society we are unable to reflect here on this matter and clearly say them, or is not a certain act really terrorist, or really supported by some good intention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-012-032.u11	I thank Mr Luzar. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate. Mr. Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-012-032.u12	After all, I will respond to what the professor said shortly. I don't think we're gonna be discussing this much anyway. If it should make sense, it must still be terrorist crimes that take place somewhere other than us. We haven't had a terrorist crime here yet. I don't know if we're going to demand that they be convicted there, in addition, in a situation where most modern acts of terrorism are committed so that the perpetrators die directly at them, so that there are maximum judgments between shareholders and tutors and others, or if it is terrorism, we're going to assume from the headlines. And I was pointing out some types of conflict. Was terrorism a Chechen struggle for liberation or a Russian campaign for what both sides did? I think both sides behaved at times by committing terrorist crimes. And we could go on and on like this. I'm just pointing out that this creates a certain degree of complications - either it doesn't solve anything at all, and it's completely unnecessary if we're talking about our internal situation, and if we're talking about how we'd like people not to appear here to praise September 11th or the attacks in Paris or something like that, then I'm just saying that there are great risks to complex interpretations and arguments about what is and what isn't actually a terrorist crime.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-012-032.u13	I thank Mr Benda. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate. If not, I am ending the general debate. I ask about the final words of the appellant, or the rapporteur, as the case may be. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-012-032.u14	Thank you. That time is starting to run out again, so I'm just going to try to react very briefly. First of all, the concern about whether there's going to be any complicated interpretational arguments. Section 311, which already defines the terrorist attack, or the other provisions relevant, are very detailed and very clearly define what terror is, what a terrorist attack is. These are provisions that offer no room for interpretation, and I really do not have the slightest fear of any such problems. What happened here in the debate is typically not terrorist attacks and terrorism. And it's really obvious from these definitions. Otherwise, there have been objections that are counter-directive. On the one hand, why it took us so long and now we are in such a terrible hurry, on the other hand, we could not be more active towards the international authorities and negotiate it any better. The reason we're in such a hurry right now, why it took us so long, is because we were more active with the international authorities and tried to negotiate something else. And we negotiated so long as we ended up in this regime because the international authorities absolutely don't want to hear anything like that. And I have to say, I'm starting to grow up today, or I've already come to the conclusion that I'm right. These international institutions are based on the experience of countries that have real - unfortunately - experience with terrorism and know what works and what doesn't work, and they look at our rather academic views with a certain respect for which I have an understanding. When we figured out that it was in this situation, that it was already completely stuck, that's why they drove us into all the other rounds, and we're really in danger of getting the rating down, so we actually turned our attitude really hard. I apologize for the fact that sometimes it works that way at the ministries, that it persists - and it's good again - that there is some position that persists and changes when it comes to the fact that the position wasn't good. That's why we're here today. That's why we're in such a hurry now, because we're really saving these things five minutes past twelve. And it came to us that not only are we saving some ratings, but unfortunately we are getting into a situation in Europe where the probability that some such thing - hopefully only at that stage of some support - is really starting to appear here. A year ago, two years ago, it felt like talking about malaria in the middle of Central Europe. Otherwise, for those of you who haven't been there because they're not from the Constitutional Committee or they don't deal with the issue, we've been trying to process the accelerated discussion. We have spoken with all the Members concerned and we have given everyone the opportunity to comment. Mr Benda rightly says that he even influenced the outcome with regard to the rates. So I'm a little shocked right now, or I'm surprised by Mr. Ondráček's detailed questions, which I really don't have any room to answer at this point. But at the same time, I have to say, I've kept checking, there's a clear answer to all of them in the explanatory report. We address all the questions there. You need to read the reason message. And I'm a little sorry that Mr Ondráček just didn't come up with those questions at the time when we were calling for you to ask these questions. Ladies and gentlemen, terrorism is, I think, a serious threat to the whole of Europe. I believe that we really need this law and we really need it now. I beg you very much for his support at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-012-032.u15	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur? He's not interested in the final word. I do not see the objection raised against us continuing to proceed according to the proposed § 90 para. 2. Therefore, pursuant to Article 90 (1) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that, in the light of the above, it is necessary to assess whether the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 5 I will make a motion for a resolution, but before that happens, I will sign you all off. Please sign up with your voting cards. I've already started, I've done it twice, and I've done it for the third and fourth time. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees to continue negotiations on the Houses of the Press 886 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' I am opening the vote on this motion for a resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 98 vote, 115 Members and Members signed, for 75, against 3, the proposal was adopted. It has therefore been decided to continue the negotiations and I am opening a detailed debate. I ask who is reporting for a detailed debate. There's no such person. Therefore, if no one is reporting, I will conclude a detailed debate. I ask the final words of the appellant, if any, to the rapporteur. Not interested. We will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended, and other related laws, according to the House's Press 886." Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of this proposal, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the 99th vote that 116 Members and Members have signed up, for 90, against none. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is the item
