ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-003-172.u1	172. Government bill amending Act No. 503/2012 Coll., on the State Land Office and on the amendment of certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 575/ - third reading At the rapporteur's table, I ask that the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka and the rapporteur of the guarantee committee take up their seats as applicants, the agricultural committee, Mr Petr Kudela. The motion for rejection and amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 575/3, which was delivered to you on 2 March 2016, the deadline for discussion has therefore been maintained. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 575/4. I ask the Minister of Agriculture, Marian Jurečka, for the plaintiff, whether he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. It's not like that. Neither does the rapporteur. I am therefore opening a debate in which I have no written application. Mr Petr Bendl is reporting from the position and I see Mr Herbert Pavera. I'm making a note of you. My colleague Petr Bendl is the first to sign up for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-003-172.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, colleagues, I performed at the first reading on this bill, and in the second I was very brief, because we were under time pressure and I did not want to complicate the situation in the adoption of the laws that followed. Now I dare to justify my motion to dismiss this law. I'll help myself with the technique. On the one hand, the bill is necessary; on the other hand, it solves a number of things poorly. The bill brings the two-track administration of state property, where the State Land Office will treat the state property differently than for example. Office of State representation in property matters, because it is not the only property the State has. [[11.30 hours]] It brings a number of debatable points. For such important authorities as the State Land Office, it should be the government's responsibility to operate as a ZIF, for example, where the Supervisory Board is. Because if the State Land Office is to be the body or institution to provide, and it is written in the explanatory memorandum, priorities and support priority projects that the government is interested in, then it would certainly be worth at least some supervisory body that controls this concentration of property, ad 1, and secondly, ad 2, to report at least the State Land Office on its activities to the Chamber of Deputies, as other important institutions do. But what I consider to be complicated in the future is, in simple terms, that if the government has some priority interest and it needs to replace the land with some legal or natural person, it will look for land all over the Republic, it will again speculate about why these land and why not others. In this I see the continuation of some of the cases that will still be sanctified by the power of an official who will call the land at Karlovy Vary that or these in the administrative proceedings. The land is already blocked today, often not the land that the government could use for the future. I know it's land under communications, it's land under pavements and so on. Rather, I think that government priorities will complicate this bill and delay its resolution rather than meet the situation. But that's not the most important thing. The most important part of the law is that of the restitution dot, when the way of dealing with the right to a substitute plot in accordance with Section 11 of Act No. 229/1991 Coll., by way that the beneficiary will be entitled only to financial compensation. Since, even after this amendment, the right to acquire land for the tenants of agricultural land is maintained and, in essence, the mechanisms which were the subject of Act No. 503/2012 Sb. taken from Act No. 95/1991 Coll., on the sale of state land, is the removal of this right to issue a substitute plot on the edge of constitutionality. Unless he's already behind her. In view of the decision of the Constitutional Court No. 6/2005, which basically established that the person who obtained the right to transfer the replacement plot under Section 11 of Law 229/1991 Coll. purchase or other transfer contract, with the exception of heirs according to a direct sequence, has lost the right to transfer the replacement land, since this right is linked only to persons who have been actually damaged by the previous regime and to their direct heirs. I am surprised that this objection has not been applied by the Legislative Council of the Government, because the Constitutional Court's finding should be known to them in my deep conviction and, moreover, was issued in the case of a very similar amendment to Act No. 229/1991 Coll., as amended. The proposed amendment essentially overrides the right of landlords over the rights of restitutionists damaged under the previous regime by the removal of land and essentially introduces inequality between the restitutionrs as such. It introduces restitutions indemnified by land and restitutions compensated financially after an artificially fixed date and de facto places them at the level of speculators with claims, which, on the basis of the amendment of the law in 2005, were withdrawn from the abovementioned resolution of the Constitutional Court of Justice, and left only the right to substitute land and the right to financial compensation, as is the case with the proposed amendment, which, however, concerns only direct restituents and their heirs. To illustrate the seriousness of the situation: There are now these types, if you like, of restitutionists who were entitled to transfer the replacement plot under Section 11 of Act No. 229/1991 Coll. Direct restituents, to whom the substitute land was issued on the basis of a public offer, direct restituents who accepted other transactions, money, notes, shares and so on for this claim. Direct restituents who issued the replacement plot on the basis of a judicial decision, traders with claims for transfer of the replacement plot, who received transactions from the Land Fund of the Czech Republic in the form of a selected substitute plot or outside the public offer, in particular until 1999. Traders with claims who successfully sued the Land Fund of the Czech Republic or with it concluded an agreement on out-of-court settlement, traders with claims that were successful in public tenders until 2005. Claims traders who received only financial transactions after 2005. The direct restitution granted by the State on the basis of this amendment or grants financial compensation without valorising its value, i.e. the same compensation as the speculators after 2005. This is a very serious inequality before the law. This is also an economic damage to the restitution, since the financial compensation is determined in accordance with the regulation in force on the date of entry into force of Act No. 29/1991 Coll. Here is above all considerable inequality due to the method of valuation of restitution claims for churches and religious societies pursuant to Act No. 428/2012 Sb. The loss of value of these claims is also significant because of the time, inflation and growth in real estate prices, which effectively represent the amount of this claim. The price per metre of the construction land has increased substantially since 1991, while the nominal value of the claim has not been adjusted in any way. The possibility of natural restitution by land thus had a certain anti-inflationary effect. For this reason, it would be necessary to reflect in the law the possibility of a new valuation of restitution claims either under existing valuation rules or at least in the same way as the price was established for the claim of churches, where, precisely because of more than 20 years of delay, the valuation of assets other than other restitutions was used. It can be imagined that, in the case of this valorisation, a restitution period could also be immediately passed without unnecessary courts and the media response that can be expected in the event of the adoption of this proposed law. In addition, it can also be stated as a reason for equality between entities before the law. It should be noted that, in this case, it is a restriction on the rights of direct restitutionrs and their heirs, rather than on traffickers and restitution traders, as was the case with the first, perhaps, restitution in 2006. If we are based on the Constitutional Court ruling No. 6/2005, then this finding clearly ruled that the right to transfer the replacement plot under Section 11 of Law 229/1991 Coll., as amended, is granted only to so-called direct restituents and their heirs, not to the transferees of these claims for remuneration. In my view, it clearly states that the waiver of this right and the acceptance of financial compensation can only be the result of a voluntary decision of the entitled person and not a regulation by law. They are seriously damaged by those restitutionists whose claims have not been decided to date and who are waiting to close the administrative or judicial proceedings. [[11.40 hours]] Moreover, from the point of view of physical extradition rights, this is a negative issue. It is left to compensate for about 550 or how many million crowns of compensation, which represents a maximum of 9 to 10 thousand hectares. According to a qualified estimate, pending restitution cases may mean a maximum of CZK 300 million, which is another approx. 5,000 hectares. In my opinion, the so-called restitution dot is not worth the complications, a negative media response, which will very likely follow. I'm afraid the constitutional complaint will eventually appear. If the State Land Office wishes to limit, in particular, the so-called actions to replace the expression of will, when the restitutionists seek the issue of the corresponding substitute land mainly because the quality of the land is offered mainly in public offers to the tenants of the state agricultural land, previously under Act No. 95/1999 Sb., where the restituents' access is limited, in addition, in these offers the land is offered according to prices other than those of the restitutionrs and thus further harms them, then it also challenges the constitutional right of the individual to turn to the court if he thinks he is being reduced to his rights. To illustrate this fact a few more numbers which are contained in the historical excursion of the translator of the material. Approximately 81 thousand have been transferred to the restitutions throughout the entire period. hectares of agricultural parcels with an average value of about 61 thousand. CZK per hectare, while 581 thousand were sold to tenants and active farmers. hectares at an average price of approximately 50 thousand. CZK per hectare. In most cases, for the benefit of 30-year instalments, i.e. with a discount of approximately 60 per cent, i.e. very advantageous for the acquirer. Moreover, the scope of potential acquirers was limited by law and the possibility of acquiring state agricultural land was excluded by the vast majority of the citizens of that State, except for those who were active farmers. The very provision of Law No. 95/1999 Coll., on the fact that the majority of the inhabitants of the Czech Republic were excluded from the sale of state property, and the possibility to acquire this property by a narrow and legally limited group is at the very edge of constitutionality. What the amendment doesn't solve, and I've already said it here, is the two-way, where the state property, in the event that it is in the administration of the State Representation Office in property matters, will be treated differently than the property that will be managed by the State Land Office. I do not think that it can lead to anything positive in the long run either. That is why I propose rejecting this law in the third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-003-172.u3	I thank Mr Petr Bendl. I do not now have Mr Herbert Pavera and another member of the debate at third reading. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-003-172.u4	Nice and pleasant almost noon. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, I will be much more brief than my colleague Bendl. I would just like to respond to the amendments that will be tabled to you, and I would like to ask for the support of the C1, C2 amendments tabled by my colleague, Petr Kudela, which should still allow our gardeners who have not yet been able to transfer some of the land from the state to themselves so that they can still ask for it and thus obtain the buildings that are on these grounds free of charge. I think that this is a helpful approach to both the Ministry of Agriculture and I would like to thank the State Land Office for its cooperation in preparing these things. And I just want to say about the multi-track thing that Mr. Bendl here said. We all know that every ministry has its own property that it manages. Of course the Office for State Representation belongs to the Gesture of the Ministry of Finance, the State Agricultural Institute belongs to the Gesture of the Ministry of Agriculture. That's just how it works for us. A lot of other things would have to change to get together. It would certainly be nice if the land itself were under one office, but given that it is for various ministries, I don't expect it to be an easy solution. Thank you for your attention and thank you for any support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-003-172.u5	I thank Mr Herbert Paver. The Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka is also reporting in the debate. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-003-172.u6	Thank you. I would like to respond to two substantial comments made here by Mr Bendl and Mr... Pavery, thank you. As for the double-tracking, I think it is necessary to distinguish between the structure of the property managed by the State Representation Office in property and the State Land Office. The State Land Office is really here for the purpose of managing primarily the agricultural soil fund in the state's property. And here are some specifics, which, even given this key interest, given how land is an irreplaceable source, I don't think we're creating something here that could be the double-track, or let's say not exactly the same approach to managing state property, something negative, and, on the contrary, I would see that here clearly declare the state's interest far better to manage the land and protect the crisis government reserve for the strategic purposes of the state as something that is important, appropriate and perhaps it should have been here sometime before. As regards the other comments, whether the State Land Office should still have some transformation and some supervisory board. I do not know exactly what Mr Bendl meant, what form should we possibly change this. But there are many other authorities, which also have a rather significant gesture, as well as a property gesture, and they do not have a supervisory board. So then the question is, is it supposed to be one unprecedented step or do we want to make some systemic changes? Maybe we can talk about it. Of course, themes from opposition to this are welcome. With regard to the deficit of reporting to the Chamber of Deputies, the Green Report, which speaks for the Department of Agriculture every year, is presented to the Chamber of Deputies, and there is a part that is devoted to the activity of managing the agricultural land fund, as well as the State Land Office, land adjustments and activities provided by the State Land Office. However, I must say that this discussion of the reports in the Chamber of Deputies is very often taking place at a great distance, and I must say from my experience, unfortunately, not even the Chamber of Deputies - I am not saying that all Members, but do not show a strong interest in having them involved in discussions and reading and studying these materials. But once again, in a matter of fact, this agenda is covered in our green report. As for the key one, to say perhaps the most problematic perceived restitution dot, several things have been said here. The first such key thing was possible inequality between restitutionists. I have to respond to this by saying that since the beginning of the process of dealing with these restitutional requirements, there has been both the possibility of financial settlement and the possibility of fulfilling the supply of land, whether the real ones or the substitute ones. And it needs to be realized that we have about 25 percent of these restitution claims settled financially. There are even cases where it was combined, when the restituent was issued land and those that could not be issued were settled financially. So I refuse, and we've been discussing this with lawyers for a long time, the principle that we're getting into conflict with the Constitution here, even considering what I just mentioned. Of course, we also discussed the possibility of some valorisation, but then we would have to figure out where the right term is from when to do the valorization because the restitution claims were financially satisfied not only in 2005, but also last year. So here again, the legal position was expressed and tilted to that side - to hold the financial valuation of the land as it was set up in the past. [[11.50 hours]] I also have to say that there's a big problem with the fact that most of the land, or most of the claims, is really downright downright. These are the amounts where we have thousands of claims that are worth thousands of crowns. It can't be settled on land. We just have to deal with this financially. And really today, when we look at the structure of the land managed by the State Land Office, we just have a large area, and today we are no longer able to deal with these claims on land. So we're leaving a transitional period here, which means, once again, there's the predictability of those who have had the opportunity to deal with this process for 27 years, to satisfy their restitution claims. So there's still a two-year transitional period where the settlement of the property and the set-off and the transfer of the land directly will be possible, and then there will be a ten-year period, when only the financial settlement will be possible and then the definitely restitution period. I think if we add this up, these deadlines, we're going to be de facto 37 years old. Thirty-seven years the state has given the opportunity to deal with injustices and the things that have happened here over the previous 40 years. So I think the time is quite long, it's predictable, it's consistent with the State Land Office approach. And I think that the state should try to close these chapters and not to extend the unfinished business any longer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-003-172.u7	Thank you, Minister of Agriculture. Another point in fact by Mr Petr Bendl. [[Member Bendl: Proper.]] We are still in the debate. Proper. Such a proper application, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-003-172.u8	Thank you. I won't be long, but please make sure I don't have to watch the seconds. I thank the Minister for speaking - he did not do so only in the final word so that I could still respond to what he said. What is fundamentally changing is that the direct restituent could choose whether the land or the funds awarded by the decree in 1991. That means that when he took the land, inflation was caught in it. Now that you're saying "no more land, it's all backpacking and actually it's not enough" but you're also saying "you're only gonna get money, you're gonna get evaluation by the 1991 decree," so you're actually taking the Restituent's choice. And that's the trouble I'm in. And that's just 15 or 16 years after that, the prices of the land have, of course, increased significantly since then. So at the moment you say "land no more," those prices should be revised to at least this year's level. That's where I see the key problem and the inequality between the restituents. Yes, we disagree in principle on one thing. I am convinced that the state, if it wants to implement a project at some point, should go, agree with those owners, buy out the land and in cooperation with the municipalities, with the region, or the state itself, it doesn't matter, simply implement the project. I think it's cleaner than when the state kind of starts dealing with the land and says, "we'd give you the land over there, or the land over here, or the land over there somewhere else." This makes it possible to speculate, which I dare say, neither the government nor the Minister of Agriculture will be completely in control. That's going to take place two floors down. And there's just room for speculation. Because who decides the land is the right one and all that? In connection with this bill proposal, there is also a question of whether it was right in the past to release the state's pre-emptive rights to agricultural land. I'd like to say a sentence about that. I believe it's a good thing the farmers got to land because it allows them to really manage without fear that in a year, two, three, five or ten, or whenever the state comes and says no, return the land to us. At that point, the farmer is actually losing what's most valuable to him, that's the means of production. I also think that standing here owns a lot of land that is absolutely useless, if this process leads to centralization of state land management - and I think that it should be centralized, if, therefore, whole, not double-track, because it will also lead to... it will simply be easier to get to state land through the State Representation Office than through the State Land Office, because it will simply have to go through those decisions, the decision can be appealed etc. Those things are going to take a lot longer than that. But okay, you decided to do it this way, that it will go through administrative proceedings, that is, with the possibility of appeal, etc., etc., all those deadlines will come up. I don't think that's the best solution for government priorities, but okay, well, you want it that way, you think it's more transparent and better. However, it is my reservation that if this were to be dealt with on a one-way basis with the supervisory board I was talking about, and I agree with you that in These reports do not play such a role in the House, perhaps for those enthusiasts who have the courage to listen to the Chamber of Deputies' meetings, that it has some effect, that we will mention it here, but these reports are being discussed more at the level of the committees. That's where it belongs. And it does not want to take the right of other Members to discuss it, so it is natural that it will pass through the Chamber of Deputies, often two, three, four Members will comment on it and it will pass. However, it is publicly controlled and far more transparent. The quality, or power, and the importance of the State Land Office will increase significantly after the adoption of this law, and I therefore believe that some control mechanism would deserve this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-003-172.u9	I thank Mr Bendl. Anyone else for the debate? Still in the debate, Minister? If no one, I am ending the debate and I am asking for final words. Is the rapporteur interested in the final word? Yes. Then the Minister's final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-003-172.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to comment briefly on the amendments that have been tabled. At the meeting of the Agricultural Committee, amendments were tabled concerning the State Land Office, which is required to maintain a register - a database of bonitized soil ecological units. The right to use the family name from the population register and to deal with the disposal of the property of the State that has been transferred to the county and the municipality is hereby inserted with a new provision imposing on the State Land Office, in the event of the abolition of the school facility set up by the Region, the obligation to offer the land initially to the State. In Part B of the meeting of the Agricultural Committee, amendments were tabled to the Land Treatment Act concerning the definitions of land adjustments. In Part C of the Agricultural Committee, a block was submitted concerning the management of the State's assets, but this has already been discussed by the House when the proposal returned to the Senate was approved. At second reading, Mr Šenfeld's proposals concerning the abolition of the amendment point 22 were tabled, abolishing the possibility and conditions for the exchange of state land with private owners. In Part C of Mr Kudela, amendments were tabled concerning the transfer of agricultural parcels in gardening and chat settlements which my colleague Pavera referred to a moment ago. And in part C3, a proposal is made for an amendment to the Water Act concerning ownership of the waterworks and ownership of the land. I think I will make recommendations on individual amendments in connection with the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-003-172.u11	Thank you to the rapporteur. Minister with the final word. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-003-172.u12	Thank you. To be exactly in the picture, today is the number of people who have their claims, 56 346. Of which 48 thousand are claims up to CZK 10,000, where it is very problematic at today's prices to have settlement in the form of land. The difference of 8,000 is about 14 percent of these applicants and they have a chance to apply within a two-year period and meet their demands in the context of challenges. I don't think we can agree on the final discussion of valorisation. But this is where I explained the position. We've consulted lawyers for a long time. Last year too, the restitutionists were satisfied financially on the basis of the original '90s award, so we are holding a consistent position here. I would just briefly pause on what Mr Bendl mentioned, and that is that the State should sell the land and then buy it for its intentions. It's a certain view, perhaps even philosophical, of how the state is supposed to function. However, I believe that the state should operate with care of a proper economy. And when we see how a huge problem in some localities is to even buy land for the intentions of the state, whether these are the projects that are crucial for the protection of the life and property of the population, for example for flood control measures, I fear that if we approach this principle completely across the board and give up the idea that it will have some minimum land reserve for its intentions, it would be very dangerous. I can't imagine how we could even make land adjustments. Today we have such municipalities as Jeseník nad Odrou, where there was a lightning flood, where there were nine dead, and today the land adjustment is based on the fact that we do not have land that the state would put into the settlement of this land modification for the measures that need to be implemented. So much for one particular example. So I really defend the care of a proper economy, and I think that the state has the right and, at the same time, the duty to secure these key buildings in the public interest and to have the land ready to offer for the exchange. The process must, of course, be transparent, it is described in the conditions which must be followed by the staff of the State Land Office. I'd really like to use words like the State Land Office will do business. I don't think he belongs here. If we have any doubts, we are to initiate a complaint with law enforcement authorities. Perhaps so much of the important things still to the arguments that have been raised here. I'm asking for support in the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-003-172.u13	Thank you. We will take the vote. There'll be a motion to dismiss first. If it fails, we will proceed to the vote on the amendments. I'll check you all out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. I'm gonna run the gong again to call in colleagues who are in the lobby. Please log in with your ID cards. Since the second reading of the motion for rejection was made, it is necessary to decide on it before the amendments are discussed. The number of entries has stabilized. We will decide in the vote the serial number 390, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of the rejection. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 390. Of the 150 present for 31, anti-116. The motion was not accepted. I ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure, then to present the various amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. I ask the Minister to do the same. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-003-172.u14	Mr President, we voted on the motion to reject. That was rejected. Legally, the technical adjustments were not submitted. I propose that we vote on the amendments in this way in accordance with the resolution of the agricultural committee. First of all, on proposal C1 and C2 en bloc by one vote. Then on proposal C3, then on proposal A.A.1, A.A.2 and A.B en bloc with one vote. Furthermore, on proposal A.A.3, then on proposal A.C and then on proposal B and finally on the bill as a whole, as amended by the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-003-172.u15	Does anyone have any comments on the procedure approved by the Agricultural Committee? It's not like that. We will decide on the procedure by voting order number 391, which I have begun, and I ask who agrees with the procedure proposed. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 391 of the Member present 154 for 151, the proposal was approved. We can therefore start with the amendments. Please, rapporteur, first proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-003-172.u16	Firstly, I propose that we vote on points C1 and C2, which is a change in favour of the transfer of agricultural parcels in garden and cottage settlements. The Agricultural Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-003-172.u17	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've begun the vote on order 392, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 392 from 154 Members present for 138, against 12. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-003-172.u18	Furthermore, I propose that the vote be taken on point C3, this is a change in the water law in which it is proposed that waterwork be not part of the land on which this waterwork is located. The Agricultural Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-003-172.u19	Mr. Secretary? [[I recommend it.]] I've started the vote on serial number 393 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote serial number 393 of the present 156 for 16, against 96. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-003-172.u20	I also propose that amendments A.A.1, A.A.2 and A.B be voted on. [[There's noise in the room. The President is begging for peace.]] These are amendments that allow the State Land Office to take over and maintain a database of bonitized land and use information from the population register and make adjustments in the definition of land adjustments. The Agricultural Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-003-172.u21	Mr. Secretary? [[I recommend it.]] I've started the 394 series vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 394 of 157 for 135, against no one. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-003-172.u22	Furthermore, I propose that the amendment marked by A.A.3 should be voted on, these are definitions of the obligations of schools or school establishments which have been abolished in order to give priority to land to the State of the Land Fund of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-003-172.u23	Opinion? [[Rapporteur: Recommendant.]] Mr. Secretary? [[I recommend it.]] I've started the vote with serial number 395 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 395 of 157 for 119, against 16. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-003-172.u24	Furthermore, I propose that the vote be taken on Amendment A.C, which is a block of proposals concerning the amendment of the Act on the Property of the Czech Republic. This has already been approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The proposal from the Agricultural Committee - not recommended. [[Opinion]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-003-172.u25	Mr. Secretary? [[He doesn't recommend it.]] I've started voting number 396 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 396 from 157 for 3 against 120. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-003-172.u26	The next proposal is Mr Šenfeld's proposal submitted in the second reading of this law concerning the so-called 'Shenfeld'. Land compressions. The opinion of the Agricultural Committee - not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-003-172.u27	Mr. Secretary? [[I don't recommend it.]] I've started voting number 397 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 397, from the present 158 for 28, against 119. The motion was not accepted. This was the last amendment, so we will vote on the proposal as a whole. Is everyone happy with the suggestions? Yes. The Agricultural Committee recommends, the Minister recommends. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 503/2012 Coll., on the State Land Office and on the amendment of certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws under House press 575, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I've started voting 398, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 398, from 158 in favour of 122, versus 15. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I thank the Minister, thank the rapporteur and end with paragraph 172. At the same time, I will hand over the proceedings to the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-003-172.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, we will continue with the next points from our program, as we have approved. I'm opening another point, and that's it.
