ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-011-009.u1	9. Government Bill on Rules of Budget Responsibility /German Press 412 - second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft bill will be presented by the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. Mr Vice-President, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-011-009.u2	Thanks for the word. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at second reading, we are discussing a government bill on budgetary responsibility rules. It is a legislation that follows up on the constitutional law on budgetary responsibility and implements its provisions. On the specific content of the bill, I would like to mention the following. The proposal defines the sector of public institutions which is consistent with the definition used in the European Union's budgetary surveillance. It also introduces a general adjustment requiring each public institution to draw up a draft budget and a medium-term perspective for at least two additional financial years. At the same time, proposals for approved budgets and medium-term forecasts and implementation of budgets are imposed. The Ministry of Finance requires the publication of the information required by the Directive on requirements for budgetary frameworks of the Member States. The draft law also contains requirements for the Ministry's macroeconomic and fiscal forecasts used for budgetary planning purposes. An independent expert panel, called the Committee on Budgetary Forecasts, is set up for this purpose. The Ministry of Finance will prepare the document The budgetary strategy of the public institutions sector, which will act as the medium-term budgetary framework for a period of three years, and which will also include the convergence programme submitted to the European Commission. The procedure for determining the amount of the expenditure framework of the State budget and state funds will also be defined. The Ministry shall draw it from the total amount of expenditure incurred by the public institutions sector, which shall be determined as the sum of the medium-term budgetary objective and forecasted total consolidated revenues of the public institutions sector, adjusted for the effects of the economic cycle and one-off operations for the following year. Total expenditure will be reduced following the development of the so-called correctional component taking into account past non-compliance. On the other hand, total expenditure may be increased by expenditure incurred on the basis of the deterioration of the state's security situation, the sum of expenditure linked to the removal of subsequent natural disasters and the fulfilment of international agreements and other international commitments if it exceeds 3% of GDP, and expenditure related to the forecasted significant deterioration of economic development. However, the latest increase will only be possible with the opinion of the National Budget Board, which will also be involved in the methodological approach and will deliver an opinion on the establishment of expenditure. The rule should lead to a significant reduction in the procyclical nature of fiscal policy and, to a large extent, the depoliticisation of the stability function of public finances. In its main features, the rule is consistent with the requirements of the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union. In relation to the management of a territorial self-governing entity, a rule is introduced on the basis of which the municipality or region must reduce the excess by at least 5% of the difference between the amount of its debt and its regulated level if its debt exceeds 60 per cent of the average of its revenue over the last four financial years at the end of the year. The rule contains the corrective part applied when the municipality or county does not reduce its debt in the required manner. This will be the creation of a cash reserve for instalments in debt form after the transfer of a share in the proceeds of shared taxes has been stopped. The corrective part will be introduced with delayed efficiency. The draft law also contains measures in case the application of the previously mentioned rules proves inadequate. The following measures will be applied in a situation where the share of debt in the general government's GDP sector reaches at least 55 per cent. The Government will approve and submit to the Chamber of Deputies a proposal and a medium-term outlook for the state budget and budgets of state funds that lead to a long-term sustainable state of public finances. This means, in principle, that the fiscal strategy of the government in its horizon will lead to the achievement of the medium-term budgetary objective. The Government of the Chamber of Deputies will submit a proposal for balanced budgets for health insurance companies. The draft deficit budget will only be able to be submitted if the deficit can be covered by a maximum of one third of the insurance undertaking's financial balances from previous years or by a refundable financial assistance. The territorial self-governing body shall approve its budget for the following year as being balanced or surplus. The deficit budget will only be approved if the deficit can be reimbursed by funds from past years or by return financial assistance. Debt financing will only be possible due to the pre-financing of projects co-financed by EU budgets. Furthermore, other public institutions will not be able to establish new obligations under contracts that result in an increase in the debt of the public sector for more than one year after a period of at least 55 per cent of GDP. The exemption will be possible for projects co-financed by EU budgets or the commitments necessary to comply with the decisions of the court or the authorities of the State. Those measures shall not apply for a period of 24 months in the event of a significant deterioration of economic development, in the case of significant expenditure of the state budget linked to the removal of the consequences of natural disasters and expenditure resulting from the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Czech Republic and in the event of a deterioration of the state's security situation. If the debt of the general government sector amounts to more than 60 per cent of GDP, the government will propose measures to reduce this amount. The proposal further regulates the scope of the National Security Council established by the Constitutional Act on budgetary responsibility. The Council will evaluate the implementation of the numerical fiscal rules, on which it will submit a report to the Chamber of Deputies. It will also identify the debt levels of the public institutions sector, monitor the economic development of the public institutions sector and report on the long-term sustainability of public finances. The Council will also, in its opinion, comment on the calculation of the correctional component for the rules on the establishment of total expenditure. [[15.40 hours]] The Council shall consist of the President and two other members. The President will be proposed by the Government and two other members of the Senate and the Czech National Bank. All will then be elected by the Chamber of Deputies for a period of six years. The proposal also contains a list of the assumptions for the performance of the board member's duties and functions and activities incompatible with its performance. The organisational component of the State called the Office of the National Budget Board shall be set up to carry out tasks related to the expert, organisational, administrative, personnel and technical assurance of the Board's activities. The management of an independent fiscal institution also creates a prerequisite for meeting the requirements of the Stability, Coordination and Governance Treaty in economic and monetary union and, in particular, EU law relating to euro area Member States. The proposed legislation is fully compatible with the principles of EU law and brings the legal order of the Czech Republic closer to the provisions establishing treaties and secondary EU law. In addition to the efforts to consolidate the national fiscal framework, the bill follows some of the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact reformed in 2011 and transposes Council Directive No. 2011/85/EU on the requirements for the budgetary frameworks of the Member States for which Member States have undertaken to bring into force the legislation necessary to comply with it by 31 December 2013. The Czech Republic received the so-called "European Commission" in this context in January last year. formal notice on the incomplete implementation of the directive. The draft law does not conflict with the provisions of the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-011-009.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and to the Constitutional Legal Committee. This press has been actively discussed by the Health Committee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 412/1 to 7. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Václav Votava, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-011-009.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on Budgets of its 29th meeting of 14 October 2015 on the Government Bill on Rules of Budget Responsibility, House Press 412. After the opening words of Deputy Minister of Finance Gregor, the Votava News Report and the debate, the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament first recommends that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies approve the Government's bill on rules of budgetary responsibility, Parliament's press 412 without comment. Secondly, it empowers the rapporteur to introduce this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament of the Czech Republic, which I have also done. I would only respond, Madam Vice-President, to Mr Plíšek's colleague, that they had a call in the resolution, if I had understood correctly, to the President of the House, to convene the House Clubs to discuss, above all, the constitutional law. I can say that such negotiations have taken place. And it took place with the participation of Minister Babiš on 1 December. And the meeting was attended by Minister Babiš along with the Ministry of Finance's staff. I, Mr Kalousek, took part in social democracy for the TOP 09, Mr Fiedler at the Dawn, Mr Uhlík for the KDU-ČSL and Mr Stanjura for the ODS. This also resulted in a certain entry in which the conditions under which the parties are willing to support the constitutional law are included. And I will briefly mention this in my speech in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-011-009.u5	Thank you. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Jiří Koubek, rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee, Mr Martin Plíšek, and rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Member Soňa Marková, take up the floor, inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committees and justify any amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-011-009.u6	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. The Public Administration and Regional Development Committee addressed the House's 412 press at two of its meetings at the 25th meeting of 10 June 2015 and at the 32nd meeting of 12 November 2015. After a brief debate in both cases, he interrupted the discussion of this press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-011-009.u7	Thank you. I'd like to ask Mr. Plíšek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-011-009.u8	Good afternoon again, thank you for the floor. At its 34th meeting on 3 June 2015, the Constitutional Committee adopted a resolution that, following the reasoning of the representative of the petitioner and the intelligence report and in the general debate, it interrupts press discussion 412 precisely in the light of the resolution requested by the President of the Chamber of Deputies to convene a meeting of the MPs to find a political consensus. So I would only respond to Mr Votava, that I am not aware that a political consensus would be found which aims to approve the constitutional law if only one negotiation took place. So, as I have already mentioned, I will propose a procedural proposal later in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-011-009.u9	Thank you and please Mrs Marková. [[He's not present.]] Can I have someone from the Health Committee, please? I will ask Mr Vyzula to introduce us to the resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-011-009.u10	Thank you, Madam President. I would therefore like to present the resolution of the 24th meeting of 14 October 2015, when the Health Committee discussed this press 412. He interrupted it in a general debate without any conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-011-009.u11	Thank you. And since we have approved the merged debate, I am also interrupting the discussion of paragraph 9 at this point and opening the discussion of the point
