ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-002-083.u1	83. Draft of Members Jiří Dolejš, Miloslava Vostrá, Josef Vondrášek, René Číp, Vojtěch Filip, Pavel Kováčik and Alexandr Černý on the issue of the law on property return and on the amendment of Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended (the property return law) /German press 235/ - First reading We dealt with this House press on 11 February 2015 at the 25th meeting, when we interrupted it and adjourned it by the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies number 631, pending the submission of the Government Bill. This condition has been met. On 2 June 2015, a 504 House press was submitted. It is a government bill that amends certain laws in connection with proof of the origin of property. The general debate has been interrupted. I would remind you that the Government's position was delivered as a House press 235/1. I now ask that the seats at the rapporteur's table be taken up by Mr Jiří Dolejš and the rapporteur for first reading by Mr Roman Procházka. I see you're already in your seats, thank you. So we will now continue the interrupted general debate. I'm asking who's applying. Member Jiří Dolejš. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-002-083.u2	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Because the silence since we discussed this law has been quite long, at least four or five sentences to refresh your memory by thanking this auditorium for allowing it to be discussed. You may recall that at the end of January, when we were discussing a government press that is on a similar subject, I was here in this rhetoric, so that we would not forget the continuance of these two proposals. And it did, so thank you, because it's not quite normal. In particular, the parliamentary proposals are so-called on ice not only those twenty months when this law is here, but some may be even longer. So thank you. In any case, I would like to stress that this proposal, unlike the government, is specific in something. After all, that is why I am asking you not to kill him at first reading, even though this proposal has already been tabled, because he is presenting a completely new, specific instrument for dealing with property returns. This instrument would operate across the board for all obliged persons, i.e. individuals with property of up to CZK 10 million, and not to escape into the corporate sphere, as well as for legal entities over CZK 30 million. It's a specific design, but not entirely sucked out of fingers. You may recall that 20 months ago I was here talking about the fact that even in the new times after 1989 a similar, very similar bill was part of our legal order, the legal order of the Czech Republic. It was from 1993 to 1995. True, it was only valid, not effective, because although it was won by the Minister of Finance Špaček, which was definitely not a communist, but in the confusion after the division of the Republic and after the alternation of political Garniture, he simply won the view that it did not like that the new elites did not need this law. First, its effectiveness was postponed, then in 1995 it was completely abolished. [[17.10 hours]] Well, that happens. But the subject has lasted here and in different forms, but very similar, I must say, in very similar versions, it has been read here ten times over the past twenty years. And once again, it wasn't just us, we have half of these proposals, but there were government proposals. It was the government of today's President Zeman, when the ministers Mertlík and Rusnok tried twice, but the diction of the opposition agreement did not allow it at the time, the majority was set up in the House as it was set up, and thus this Zemanic version failed. Unfortunately, even when the left had a majority in the House, we failed, and so here we are with this tenth attempt and my ambition is to convince you to give it a chance. I know there's a government proposal, of course. The government coalition, as it is already its custom, or at least its political reflection, will come together around its proposal, but even this proposal is only at first reading, discussing its weak points, which, at least from my point of view, are not merely technical-legal, and may not hurt to have a co-op - after all, in the finals it can be decided, in the third reading - two proposals that can be improved in the second reading, embellished so that the citizen knows that we have chosen well and that it was not only a force decision. Of course, I understand especially colleagues from the right wall, who, with their kind of liberal arguments, defend the teeth of the fingernails to do something similar, even in the government version, is accepted. Well, they think they might be on their own to suspect they're committing something if there was such an institute. I don't think he's abused, on the contrary, he'd make a good argument and a good alibi that an honest businessman has nothing to worry about, but in a way I understand it. In a way, I understand their department's liberal diction and argument, and I certainly won't talk them out of it. But rather, I appeal to the vast majority of the rest of the House, because ODS and TOP 09 are certainly not mostly Houses, if they would not consider releasing our proposal to the next reading after all. Because I think that government proposal by relying too much on the initiative of the tax office - if we look at practice, that means, for example, in Slovakia, but similarly, I think it is designed in Bulgaria and other countries, so the efficiency is not so great. There were simply those handsome or those who managed all sorts of things, not many were brought to a fair end of punishment, and I think our system, which is flat, could be more effective. It is understandable that there will also be much debate in government benches, but I particularly remind colleagues from social democracy that they have already voted in favour of this proposal in other versions, but very similar ones. So if he wins, let's say, coalition loyalty, let's say he wins at that third reading when it's quite obvious what's and isn't better. In the finals, I'll add that the government's position on this proposal is neutral, so at least at first reading, you could understand it so that you're not instructed to shoot at the crews and you're not instructed to stomp us into the asphalt. Give it a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-002-083.u3	Thank you, too. Mr Procházka is now duly logged in. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-002-083.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, first of all, I'd point out that there's a card stuck at the table, so a colleague who left it there...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-002-083.u5	That's, I suppose, a card... I'm gonna ask you to sign off on the table. That's right, thank you. Ambassador, please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-002-083.u6	Well, thank you for your word. Draft of Members Jiří Dolejš, Miloslava Vostrá, Josef Vondrášek, René Číp, Vojtěch Filip, Pavel Kováčik and Alexandr Černý on the issue of the law on property return and on the amendment of Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, was already discussed at the first reading at the 25th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on 11 February 2015. The law was suspended by resolution of the Chamber of Deputies No. 631 and adjourned until a government bill is submitted. The Government's bill has already been tabled in the Chamber of Deputies. This is House Press No. 504, named government bill amending certain laws in connection with proof of the origin of property, and was discussed at first reading. It has been ordered by the Constitutional Legal Committee and the Budget Committee as a guarantee. For this reason, I recommend rejecting Parliament's proposal for a law on property returns under the number of the House press 235. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-002-083.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I wonder if anyone else is joining the general debate. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-002-083.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Madam and gentlemen, any other reason for the motion for rejection than the rapporteur has put forward here would certainly be more relevant than the fact that, on the ground that there is a government proposal, we recommend rejecting the parliamentary proposal whether I have understood the proposal well, Mr rapporteur through the President, especially in the spicy situation that the rapporteur has also communicated the press figures. So let me just remind you that the parliamentary proposal has a substantially lower number of the press, and from the way I'm here, we should handle these orders in the order of the orders received, so ours should at least be taken as the basis for discussing the subject. We could even discuss both prints together, merge the debate, and then deal with it at third reading. That, in my opinion, would be the right course of action. But this is my court, the rapporteur seems to have a different opinion, he has made a different proposal here, so at this point, I have no choice but to sigh that, say, the rolling machine of the government coalition continues with this proposal by the rapporteur. I will ask that, at least in the motion for rejection, we abstain, because there are still other ways to deal with the proposal, let's say more elegantly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-002-083.u9	Thank you, too. I wonder if anyone else is joining the general debate. I see no one else, in which case I end the general debate. I ask, where appropriate, the final words of the appellant or rapporteur. It's not like that. From previous proposals, I note Mr Kalousek's motion for rejection. I'll call the MPs from the lobby. The rapporteur also made a motion for rejection. I'm registering a request for your check-out. Then I'll check you out and ask you to come forward again. I will repeat the proposal that we will vote on. It is a motion to reject the proposal. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of rejection, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 157, registered 143 Members and Members, for proposal 82, against 43. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been approved. The proposal has already been rejected in the first reading. I'm done discussing this point. I thank both the promoter and the rapporteur. [[17.20 hours]] Before I go any further, I'll read the note. Today, from 16.30 to 17.30, Mrs Zelienková apologizes for reasons of work, and from 16.00 to 17.30, Mr Leoš Heger apologizes for reasons of work, and today between 17.30 and 19.00, because of the negotiations, Mr Martin Sedlář apologizes. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
