ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-000-000.u1	Madam, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 47th session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. I'd like you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. I would like to inform you that the following Members, Members and Members of the Government have asked to apologise for their failure to attend today's meeting: Mr Běhounek from 12.30 - working grounds, Mrs Bohdalová - working reasons, Vice-President Jermanová - personal reasons, Mr Kádner - working grounds, Mr Kasal before 13:00 - working grounds, Mr Kostřica - working grounds, Mr Nykl - working grounds, Mrs Pecková - working grounds, Mr Pleticha - working grounds, Mr Pražák - working grounds, Mr Syblík - working grounds, Mr Šidlo - personal reasons, Mr Volný - personal reasons, Mr Zavadil - health reasons, Mr Zlatuška - foreign travel. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek apologizes from the members of the government - working reasons, Minister Brabec until 11.30 - working reasons, Minister Chovanec until 10 pm - working reasons, Minister Němeček - working reasons, Minister until 14.30 - working reasons, Minister Stropnickýý - foreign travel, Minister Ťok - working reasons and Minister Zaorálek - foreign travel. Mr Tejc votes with card number 3. Today's negotiations would start with points from the third reading block, for which the legal deadline is fulfilled, those are points 156, 157, 158, 159, 160, 161. Furthermore, we would be dealing with points 30, 46, 47, 48, 74. Please note that at 12.45 we have election points 195 to 197. And let me remind you, at 2:30, we fixed points 44, 15 and 16. Before we start discussing individual points, I have two applications for the agenda. Mr Laudát and then Mr Sklenák. So, please, Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-000-000.u2	Mr President of the House of Parliament of the Czech Republic, I would like to know - there was no excuse for Prime Minister Sobotka. I wonder if he'll be present, if he'll come. He's here somewhere or he's not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-000-000.u3	Mr President, since I have no excuse for the Prime Minister, I assume he will be present. However, I do not know where he is at this moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-000-000.u4	In that case, I am putting forward a procedural motion for the House to be interrupted by the Prime Minister's arrival.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-000-000.u5	Yes, that is a procedural proposal that can be voted on. So I'm gonna call in my co-workers from the lobby. I'll repeat the motion. The proposal is for the House to be adjourned until the Prime Minister is present. I will vote on this procedural proposal. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? It's number 229, registered 139, for 56, versus 69. This proposal has not been adopted. [[Noise in the hall.]] Do you wish to continue, Mr. Ambassador? Yes. Colleagues, colleagues, but I'm asking for peace of mind. I beg you all to take your seats. And my colleague Laudát can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-000-000.u6	Thank you. Since, according to yesterday's vote, I assume that you will not approve - I am talking about the coalition - the inclusion of the points that I will propose. The item is called, or I called it, the neúčast of Government Ministers in Interpelations and the Presentation of My Materials at the Meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. For your information, I will propose that this point be voted on today as the first item in the negotiations. Alternatively, on Friday 3 June as the first item of the hearing. [[Constant noise in the hall.]] I refuse to tolerate and keep quiet about what happened here last Friday. Since this is taking on the scale, I believe that we can no longer remain silent and tolerate the inability of Prime Minister Sobotka to force his ministers to fulfil their legal obligations, during the House's meeting they were present and also present during the submission of their materials. I assume the Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, the First Deputy Prime Minister, will repeat what he said to his assistant in the hallway. Even if it's a decent modification, because it's not even before 22 o'clock, and I don't even think it's dignified for him to say it in its entirety even after 22 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-000-000.u7	Colleagues, colleagues, I really ask for peace. I ask the right side, including the members of the House's leadership, not to discuss, to take their seats. Thank you. And my colleague Laudát can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-000-000.u8	The last 12 months of this parliamentary term will begin in October of this year. Last Friday, most of us personally experienced an unprecedented situation. In the absence of Mr. Andrej Babiš's first Deputy Prime Minister, who was to submit six of his laws in the third reading, the House meeting was closed that day. This culminated in the long-term disdain of the Prime Minister one of the fundamental pillars of our democracy, the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, and culminated in the total failure of the coalition to set up a plenary agenda effectively and respond to the current situation. The YES movement promised a government of capable managers. From the electoral meetings of the movement, there was something about the klutz who run our country. But what is the real reality of their rule? Even after almost three years in the House, you are not able to handle standard things that no one in the House has thought too much about before. They were just automatic and clear. The standard probationary period for taking up any job is three months. I'm asking you how much longer it will take you in the coalition to learn how to work. They agreed at least the morning before the House meeting, which day will be on the agenda. They have secured the presence of their ministers or negotiated or voted to modify the daily programme. We all make mistakes. Decisions under pressure are difficult. But forgive me, you've been producing chaos here for the third year. Unfortunately, this is not limited to the House meeting. You have an excellent media cover that none of your predecessors can boast about. But the reality of your real reign is different. The fundamental problems that life brings, you move forward without a functional solution. When the problem can no longer be covered up, you begin to draw attention to excuses on your predecessor or resort to other, substitute topics to distract attention. While you maintain a high number of supporters, no media maneuvers and crap have built yet new highways, doctors in our country have not maintained and have not provided new quality education for our successors. And even an army of 23,000 new civil servants, which you have hired for the money of the remaining taxpayers since you joined power, will not help you. The only thing you're good at is politics that leads to the fact that there's no state for citizens here...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-000-000.u9	I ask once again for peace so that my colleague Laudát can complete his argument.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-000-000.u10	All you're good at is a policy that leads to the fact that it's not a state for citizens here, it's citizens for the state. You put one duty after another on people, collect sensitive data on them, create a prefield for further regulation, control and stalking. You destroy small entrepreneurs and businessmen who are the backbone of our economy and the great hope for the future. This is happening for the condescending tolerance of social democracy and KDU-ČSL. I am not sure whether both "established" political parties are thinking about the possible consequences of their behavior. You are silent in questioning the very nature of democracy, poor or at all, against questioning the political development and foreign policy and security direction of our country. You are not able to set clear, unstoppable boundaries for the populism of your coalition partner by your unwillingness or cowardice to define yourself against populism. You allow us to push the limits of the risks to our country's further democratic direction into an ever greater range of instability and unpredictability in the near or near future. For a number of months we draw attention to the state of the discussion of tens of prints in the House. You arrogantly push only those laws that impose more and more obligations on citizens towards state institutions, collect personal private data on them, and adopt standards that give different authorities the right to favor, to whom they will make their lives miserable and to whom they will not. What good are promises that won't happen? None of us have a mandate, and they don't have to be here next time. Mr. Babiš claims that last Friday he was duly excused that everyone knew. I want anyone to perform here, including the chairman of the ANO club of fellow Jarda Faltýnek, and say if he knew. And in case he knew, I'm gonna ask why he didn't show up this morning, come to the presidents of the other MPs and negotiate a change of schedule. I even offered you an alternative which Madam President Jermanová did not vote on at the time. So I don't know if everyone knew, I didn't know. And let them come forward except for Babiš, who knew? I don't know if it is. After all, it is not the duty of Members and Members of the House to find out where the First Vice-President of the Government will be handing out doughnuts or wannabe words about things he doesn't understand at all, even though he thinks he understands everything. Prime Minister - absent, yes. [[Turning to government benches]] Mr. absent Prime Minister, how many times do we have to perform and demand that your coalition and government in relation to the House begin to function? A glimpse of the agenda of the convened meeting, which Members had at their disposal ten days before the beginning of the meeting, and last Tuesday, the approved amendments clearly show that six points of the Minister of Finance were very likely to be expected to be on the agenda last Friday. How do the presidents of coalition parties communicate with each other? They won't even think that the chairman of the Social Democracy Club will propose a suspension of the Ombudsman's authority? Are you not able to estimate, even in the morning when loading changes to the program, that the big discussion about the atomic law, its technical accompanying standard and other more or less professional laws will not be a big topic that will take much time? Mr. absent Prime Minister, is it okay with you and your party and KDU that Mr. First Vice-President Babiš will accuse you of a long-distance election trip from coalition scams against or against the poor ANO movement? Prime Minister, how many more letters will the President of the House of Hamáček have to write so that you can finally get your ministers headed by Andrej Babiš to perform their legal duties and participate and respond to the interpelation of Members? You are well-educated enough to know how it began in the history of ridiculing and attacking parliamentary democracy and the consequences. I strongly urge you to remedy this immediately. [[The speaker has silenced himself and is browsing in his background. After a while of silence, some Members begin to applaud.]] I'll wait. I've got plenty of time. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Mr. Babiš had it on Friday. I have it today. We hear this very often, and the President has mentioned it several times that his role models for the functioning of democracy and stability are Scandinavian countries. Let me say that a few years ago, the parliamentary committee, the Committee on Petitions, was visiting the Kingdom of Norway and, of course, we were also interested in the functioning of the Chamber of Deputies there. At the proper sitting of the House, we were surprised by the very small attendance, the number of Members who took part in the House's meetings. We asked about the mechanism for the House's functioning. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] We have been informed that expert issues are being discussed, that only interested parties and Members of Parliament who are in charge of the issue in their parties will take part in this. But then in the vote, on which are written exactly defined and fixed terms... I'll wait.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-000-000.u11	I'm going to try to keep you calm, Mr. Ambassador, but I think it's about all the congressmen's clubs. You probably didn't give them a speech. I think you can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-000-000.u12	Of course, I am not surprised that the representative of the party, who happened to be in the position of Vice-President, has these remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-000-000.u13	I've been trying to calm you down, colleague. It's relatively quiet now and you can proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-000-000.u14	Thank you. Precisely fixed voting dates are drawn up and there is a duty for each parliamentary faction to have 80 per cent of all Members present there. We asked what was happening at the moment when there was no presence of any parliamentary faction, regardless of the fact that it was the ruling party or opposition. To this end, we were told that there was no law governing it, and that in that case the king would invite the chairman of the political party concerned and the chairman of the political faction in question, and it would be bad. We asked what sanctions were enshrined in the law, what would follow. We were told that they didn't know it, that there was no law, but that no one had ever allowed it, and that the king would have dealt with them. We say - how? In Czech terms, obviously, if the President had done this, nothing would have happened. If you want to impose morality and behavior on others, start with yourself. Yesterday, you rejected the proposal that we should finally argue about how it will be ensured that ministers participate in the intercession. I don't know a law that says which interpelations are bullying, ridiculous, awkward. I don't perform, either, and I don't judge ideas in this way, who says what here. Sometimes something happens, sometimes it doesn't. And politics includes a certain degree of exaggeration, exaggeration, etc. However, in three years' time, Mr. First Deputy Prime Minister has done virtually nothing to be the arbiter who will determine who will implement the laws, who will not comply with the laws. And it's not an arbiter to judge even preliminaryly as it is this morning here in the galleys that will be here and won't listen. We lost about four hours on Friday, if I'm not mistaken, the Chamber of Deputies meeting. Coalition MPs here are unable to pay attention to a speech that lasted about 20 minutes - not even - of course. It's more about you, and it says more about you than you think. Of course, you have great support. You think you can afford anything. You're testing the latch system, and the Prime Minister is idly looking at what else goes through, what goes through in public. She also, thanks to the media, thanks to the very unfortunate actions of politicians in the past, linked some with the economic mafia to illustrate society. The world is uncertain, unstable. All the more so, who else should hold and define decent behavior, stability and predictability than politicians, and with particular emphasis on the politicians of the government coalition? Unfortunately, you made promises to people, you've been doing the exact opposite for three years. Thank you for your attention to those who listened.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-000-000.u15	That was Mr. František Laudát. With a procedural proposal, I see the application of the Chairman of the ČSSD Roman Sklenák Club. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-000-000.u16	Thank you for the floor. Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I signed up with a motion to change the agenda, but I cannot respond to my previous speaker's words. I listened to him very carefully, but I wouldn't be allowed to sit here during the last term to take his words seriously. We're hearing from the opposition all the time about some chaos that we're creating here, and it's as if colleagues from the right-wing opposition have forgotten what it looked like in the last parliamentary term. What it looked like when Minister Vít Bárta was sitting in government benches, who stopped all transport constructions. When Minister Drábek sat here, who broke up the offices of work and his department at all, and to this day we are putting it together. When K9 was gathered here every night because the coalition was falling apart, and the entire government ended in early elections. On the other hand, this government and this Chamber of Deputies are adopting dozens of useful laws here. We have the lowest unemployment throughout Europe, thanks to the measures coming from this House. People's wages are rising, wages are rising, people with children have higher tax relief, pensioners are growing pensions. I mean, these are all measures that people feel positive about. And I think, unlike my colleague, Mr Laudát, he is a positive judge of this government. Now allow me to sign up for why I applied. I would like to propose a firm inclusion of two points in third readings, points 169 and 170, which are prints 763 and 764 - a bill on trust services for electronic transactions and a law related thereto, on 29 June as a second and third fixed point. The first one's already there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-000-000.u17	Thank you. Please note that they are not factual, only preferential rights, so if President Faltýnek wishes to exercise preferential rights, he will be given the floor. And then Mr. Chairman Laudat.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-000-000.u18	Good morning, colleagues. Just a brief technical remark, because František Laudát asked me to comment. So just for your information, at the last two grémies of the Chamber of Deputies, where it is combined with the leadership of the House, the club presidents, the program, so I announced and expressed a request with the blocks of the Minister of Finance of the second and third readings. Specifically, we agreed on a firm inclusion for this Tuesday, which was yesterday, and second reading. We didn't want to place the third reading firmly with the fact that we didn't know how the anti-smoking law would end. So that's why I've announced several times that we just want to do the Treasury Secretary's blocks on Tuesday afternoon and Wednesday morning, which is today. We didn't put it on tight because we didn't know how to deal with those laws, of course. It's just for your information. Whoever sat on that grémia had that information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-000-000.u19	Mr. Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-000-000.u20	Thank you. Yours by way of a comment on my colleague Sklenák. First of all, it would be pretty good if he started saying what was going on here. I do not know that a minister who would have a chance to expedit six laws from the House after a third reading, and laws that are incredibly useful in contrast to others that are very damaging, and that will show the future, so that he leaves and is not here at all. First of all. For the next one. I am not sure that, for example, written interpelations were conducted in this way and that the government ministers did not participate, although they were also not famous, but now it is a disaster. It just wasn't like that. Whether he means this, or whether it says what happened here - you're 112 and you've made total chaos in the coalition, in terms of, for example, the so-called. Anti-smoking law. And since it's been done here, what useful laws you approve of, I'm just gonna give you a short list here. What are really useful laws for you, and the VAT control report - it has been marked by experts and experts as absurdity of the year, electronic records of sales. Of course, if you're going to collect billions for someone who's still short, you're going to heal at the innkeepers. The Act on Proving the Origin of Property Yesterday - I don't have to discuss it. Breaking home freedom for heating. If Minister Brabec would rather sit down in Brussels and finally negotiate what he messed up and neglected to build new highways in this country. You have the worst results for 30 years since the start of the construction of motorways in this country. 2015 was the seventh worst result.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-000-000.u21	Colleagues, colleagues, please remain calm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-000-000.u22	He was the seventh worst result since 1970 when the first highway began to be built, and last year was even worse. 2014. Last year was even worse, you made half of the seven kilometers of the original expressway work. So what are you guys talking about? Mr Bárta ended up Minister of Transport in 2011, if I remember correctly. How many more years are you gonna make excuses? The Prime Minister here asked when he was confusing his role after the beginning, because for many years he was used to working in opposition, so here he kept commenting on the past and not offering what the government would do. On a direct question from our President Kalousek, he said he would do it for two more years. Two years have passed, and as you can see, you still need to divert attention from the real results of your reign. Another of the useful laws of Minister Brabec's workshop. We'll go home and watch you drown. Breaking home freedom for possession of weapons without prior legal judgment. Another useful standard for you. Fine for insulting an official. Officials will really be masters in this country, and they will determine what an insult is, what is not an insult. You've already hired thousands more. I've already talked about it, it's one of the few results, in quotes, what you've done here. The restrictions on selling time are now returning from the Senate. A very much needed standard indeed. We've spent about a year or so on this one. Internet Censorship. You're here to make sure nothing happens. But I suppose in a few months or the next period, there will be officials who drive more than you. They're coming in, and it's still useful to turn off these i-net pages, and other sites, and it's gonna go. You're creating a legal prefix for this, and you've taken the first step. Compulsory last year at kindergarten. Next. A child is a matter of state, as has also been said by one of your ministers. National register of paid services. You won't leave people alone for 30 years after you die, and you'll be sitting here somewhere, possibly against their children, what their parents had and what their health problems were. Preparation of the tax reduction crime. I don't know if it should also be criminal if someone gets rid of the paper and can't prove a quarter-billion-dollar investment a few years back. Criminal liability of legal persons. You have lied to yourself with transitional provisions, liberating, you have lied about existing legal problems, but you are creating a preface so that you can deploy and intimidate companies with every possible paragraph of the Civil and Criminal Code. Public Media Control. You won't leave them alone, they bother you, too. Central bank account register. A register of athletes, coaches, that's really important for the state to do this here. If these are the useful laws - and I'm not talking about the fact that on the one hand, every day we see children with disabilities for whom health insurance companies don't have money for aids, and on the other hand, here you approve a completely unnecessary continuation of subsidies to support biofuels that we no longer need to approve. You have billions for that. You don't have hundreds of thousands and millions for the poor. That's your policy, actually!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-000-000.u23	President Kalousek, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. President Sklenák here painted how horrible it was in the former governments. I haven't been idealizing myself for a while. I understand coalition rule is complex in any composition, so I remember what was here. But never since 1992 - because I've remembered it here since 1992, whether as an official or as an MP - there has been no such confusion from a procedural point of view, there has been no such chaos and no such disarray in the organization as the House will act. When the presidents of coalition clubs don't know what the other one will do, and no one in the House knows what's going to happen in the next ten minutes. That is why I would like to ask, but I would really like to ask, in a collegial and respectful manner, through President Faltýnek, about the scandalous situation on Friday, because it really was nothing but a scandalous situation, the inability of the House to work, even though it was not necessary. Yes. The Minister of Finance could theoretically assume that his participation in the House was mandatory, but he could theoretically assume that he would not get to his points, or he would have preceded an item on the Ombudsman, where live discussions could also be expected. And that debate did not take place, and we did not vote on the Ombudsman because he proposed and pushed for the suspension of President Faltýnek. And then Babišův's points came in. And when Babišův's points came, President Laudát wanted to help you as a coalition and suggested that the points be eliminated. And there were other points to discuss. If Babišův's points were eliminated, the House could have worked on other points. You rejected the coalition in a fundamental way, because it was proposed by the criminal Laudat, and President Faltýnek pushed for the end of that day's negotiations. I felt like I was dreaming, I have to say. I would like to ask President Faltýnek politely if he could tell us now, after the scandalous termination of the House, why, first, he pushed a suspension on the Ombudsman when we were ready to discuss him. You asked to be interrupted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-000-000.u25	I ask you gentlemen to conduct any discussion through me. A colleague of Faltýnek will apply if he wants to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-000-000.u26	Mr. Faltýnek called me out of the process, but President Sklenák pushed for it. Sorry. So I'm asking both of those presidents. I'd like to ask Mr. Sklenák why he pushed through the interruption of that point on the Ombudsman when the House was willing to discuss him. That's one chairman of the coalition club. Then why did President Faltýnek push for the end when the House was ready to act? Perhaps both club presidents might be able to tell us that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-000-000.u27	If no one else applies, we will vote on the proposals to amend the agenda. But first, I'll read the note. Mrs Válková apologizes from 9 to 10 o'clock for reasons of work, Mrs Lorenzová apologises for the whole day because of illness, and Mr Soukup apologizes between 10.30 and 14 o'clock because of a doctor's visit. But Mr. Kalousek's right of priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-000-000.u28	I'm very sorry, ladies and gentlemen. I really asked a polite question. I expected an appropriate answer. If I don't get the appropriate answer, then I'm gonna have to answer it myself. Then there is no explanation other than total incompetence and inadequacy. Let's go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-000-000.u29	A colleague of Mr. Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-000-000.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. After all, memory is short. When my colleague Sklenák here said that everyone remembers what happened here in past governments and in past parliamentary periods, I will revive the memory of those sitting here, not too many of them, and perhaps you who haven't lived in politics, so maybe you didn't watch it that way. For example. When the House began, the Social Democrats here, usually with the leader of the opposition, Mr Sobotka, today's Prime Minister, read for several hours the justification of the programme, the inclusion of some points. As a standard, there were relatively long years of voting on the program around 4:30 and later. [[9.40 hours]] They have obstructed the fact that only physical stamina - the lack of stamina in some of their MPs has led to the fact that they eventually interrupted here after a week of nighting, because they became impressed, and of course it took very much that what is stolen does not have to be returned. We've heard endless philipics here, on which he never allowed himself to be a defense minister or anything like that, against the possible location of the American radar in Brdech, and hysteria has taken on such graces that so far no one here has ever reached the qualities of today's Foreign Minister Zaorálek. There was also a noise measurement in the quotation marks, and believe me, it was over 100 decibels losing his temper and screaming, and all the time, and it was... In the morning, the presentation of the radar location point, American radar in Brdech, interpelation, other, including long technical analysis. So I don't know how many of the current opposition are doing this. Of course, I can't imagine how you would operate when, for example, coalition conditions, which was under the Topolánkův government, were 101:99. It has also been said that social democracy, without any script prepared, has knocked down the government at the time of the Presidency of the European Union, which has not succeeded at all in the history of the functioning of the European Union. Even the six weeks remaining until the end of the Presidency were not worth waiting for, and they did so the next day. This was done with the help of defectors from the ODS. So it's just a short list of what happened in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-000-000.u31	I don't see any more preferential rights, in which case we will vote. Firstly, there is President Laudát's proposal for a new point. This is an item entitled Non-Participation of Government Ministers in Interpelations and in the presentation of its materials at the Chamber of Deputies meeting. In order to be firmly placed today as the first point of the negotiations, alternatively on 3 June on Friday as the first point. So, first of all, we're going to vote on the inclusion of today as the first item in the meeting. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? It's vote number 230, registered 172, for 74, against 78. This proposal has not been adopted. Alternatively, we will vote on inclusion on 3 June on Friday as the first item. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? It's vote 231, registered 174, for 71, against 76. The motion was not accepted. In that case, we will vote on the proposal by President Sklenák. I would like to inform you that Mr Vondráček has card No. 20. President Sklenák proposes that we place paragraphs 169 and 170 firmly on 29. 6. as the second and third points. Can we vote at once, or does anyone want a separate vote? [[Request from the diaper to repeat the number points.]] These are paragraphs 169 and 170, House press 763 and 764. It's the electronic transactions, if I'm not mistaken. The other one is a related law. Initiating vote. I ask who agrees with this proposal. Who opposes this proposal? It's vote number 232, logged in 174, for 125, against 3. This proposal was adopted. We've dealt with the agenda of the meeting and we'll continue with paragraph 156, which is
