ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-006-165.u1	165. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Paris Agreement /German press 932/ - first reading I ask both the appellant's representative and the rapporteur's representative to take the position at the rapporteur's table. Before they do so, I shall make an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Stanislav Berkovec apologises from 14.30 to the end of the meeting, and the Minister of Defence apologizes from the morning meeting for work reasons, and Mr Radim Fiala between 12.20 and 2359 hours, and Mr Plíšek apologizes from 14.30 to 18.00. So we are now returning to the point of the Paris Convention, in a debate where the factual point is Mr Jan Klán and then Mr Zahradník's application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact. A colleague, Pilný, will be prepared for a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-006-165.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask a few questions about the Minister concerning the Paris Agreement. I was quite following the Paris Agreement last year when it was approved. I'm just wondering if the Paris Agreement will actually be respected by the largest polluters, and that is the United States of America and China. What are we kidding? They are the two largest polluters who should comply with this Treaty. If we want to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2100, as the Paris agreement says, they should follow it. I remember when the Kyoto Protocol was approved, it crashed on the very fact that the United States of America did not join it as the largest polluter. It is obvious and evident that the so-called carbon lobby still rules in the United States of America. That is true, because many politicians of the United States of America are being paid for by this carbon lobby. I mean, addiction to non-recoverable resources. That's one question. [[12.50 hours]] Then the second question is what happens if we don't accept this Parisian agreement. After all, we are, say, a small state in the center of Europe, which does not pollute the environment so much in quotation marks. Of course, we pollute it because all states that release their exhalation pollute the environment. And are we really the only state that hasn't ratified this Paris agreement yet? That's kind of a big question. If it's a global gateway, that means worldwide or just European. If we're really the last ones. But, of course, I welcome this pařížský Agreement because greenhouse gas emissions need to be reduced. However, if the carbon lobby continues to rule in those states that pollute the highest, especially the United States, it will not go anywhere. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-006-165.u3	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Ivan Pilný's point of fact and then Mr Jan zahradník's already duly applied for. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-006-165.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, colleagues. I voted in favour of interrupting this point in the presence of Minister Mládek because - I will, of course, support the Paris Agreement, but on the other hand, it is the way to something that is already beginning to appear here. They're climate packages, anti-fossil laws, that sort of thing. And I would like to hear assurances from the Minister of Industry and Trade that he will follow this matter very closely and defend what he has in his description of the department. This means Czech industry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-006-165.u5	Thank you. Of course, as soon as he makes use of his right, perhaps even a priority, I will call on the Minister. But he has not yet checked in, which is why I am giving the floor to Mr Jan Zahradník and we will continue the debate until 13:00, when, according to the Rules of Procedure, I will interrupt the negotiations for lunch. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-006-165.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is evident that the treaty which the Minister translates to us and which comes to us from the foreign committee does not come from the category of agreements that we usually discuss in the time between the end of the written intercession and the thirteenth hour, when often here on this board there is a list of many international treaties, which mostly do not cause any great disturbance, do not give much attention, perhaps only with the exception of the agreement with Kosov, and which will be left behind for the minimum attention of colleagues and fellow Members. But this is a different treaty that precedes a whole series of measures trying to face something that is obviously happening here, a sort of global change. Which requires our ratification. However, in the meantime, important steps have already taken to implement this agreement into our legal system. The rapporteur Böhnisch has made it clear here that the agreement has already been signed by the Minister. This is even mentioned in the reference report for the Parliament of the Czech Republic. It says the Minister of the Environment Mgr Richard Brabec signed this agreement on behalf of the Czech Republic on 22 April 2016 at the ceremony in New York and the European Union and other Member States also became signatories on this day. Furthermore, on 21 September this year, the Government approved the proposal for ratification of the agreement by a resolution of 21 September 2016 under number 986. This means that the ratification process, in my opinion, has a special position. We are exposed to a certain need to ratify the agreement. We are even, and it is constantly reminded that we are one of the last states, if not the last thanks to those late-timers who have not yet been able to discuss it. And it is built as our error that we have not been able to do this before. So it is on our agenda today, and as we can see, this House is not in good shape in terms of order and order in terms of points. We interrupt the individual points, then we return to them. Those who properly apply to the general debate are then exposed to their speech being interrupted in the foreseeable future. Which is my case. I have prepared a rather - for my person, who usually performs here briefly - a comprehensive speech and I will now begin with the knowledge that this speech will be interrupted in four minutes. I just want to make sure with Mr President that my application for the debate will be valid even when we get back to that point. [[Yes.]] The Prime Minister assures me of this. So rather than focusing on the substance of the matter and the description of the reasons which will then lead me to submit a motion for a resolution, I will just say a few words about the very course of the climate conference. The rapporteur mentioned here that it was a conference known under the abbreviation COP 21 or 21. Conference of the Parties, i.e. Conference of the Parties. This is the official name of the conference called the International Climate Conference. If we look at the Internet and think about what it looked like less than a year ago, the deal was going on and the conference was going on. On the Internet, I read that 45,000 participants attended this conference, namely delegates of participating states, observers, representatives of civil society, i.e. explained environmental activists, and journalists. At the conference itself, 20,000 people were officially accredited. So it was a huge theater. It was huge - you could say monstrous - action. There have been many speeches, significant statesmen speaking as from the host country - the French President himself - have also spoken as guests other states representatives. There were many ambitious plans and promises, and the agreement, which was supposed to be some sort of outcome of the conference, was still not in the world, was born in great difficulty. Maybe we remember that in our news sessions, in our media, there was always a major morning report saying that the team of agreement makers acted until morning, over the morning, that it wasn't done yet, that there was still no deal. In the end, the conference had to be extended by a day. It was originally supposed to be between 30 November and 11 December. [[13.00 hours]] We know that the agreement was finally approved by that huge gremium on December 12th, which means that there was some kind of hectic negotiation. There were known targets that were there on the deal... We've been waiting for everything to happen. Even the participants of the agreement were going to tie the world with their plans for centuries. There was talk of maintaining a temperature rise below two degrees Celsius by 2100. A century, then. What a huge social engineering game the participants in that agreement want with us, the ones who have prepared the deal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-006-165.u7	Mr colleague, I must say that you were right in your speech in the procedural section that I must interrupt you at 13:00, because it is Thursday, at 13:00 we interrupt at noon, because at 14:30 we will continue under the Rules of Procedure Act by oral interpelations. I'm interrupting the meeting until 2:30. I interrupt this point at the same time. And you're the first one in the debate. So you will continue as soon as we reopen this point, first. At this point I thank the Minister of the Environment, thank you to the rapporteur, thank you, of course, to the Minister of Industry and Trade, for coming into the negotiations on the basis of the decision of the Chamber of Deputies. In this respect, I wish you a good taste and meet me at 2:30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-006-165.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 2:30 p.m. and we will continue with the next item on our show. That's what they are.
