ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u1	160. Government bill amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on preschool, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education (school law), as amended, and Act No. 200/1990 Coll., on infractions, as amended / House print 611/ - third reading I ask that the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Kateřina Valachová and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee take the position at the rapporteur's table, which is the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Mrs Vlasta Bohdalová. The amendments are set out in the Houses of the Press 611/4, which was delivered on 12 February 2016. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House prints 611/5 and 611/6. I am now asking the appellant whether she is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. That's right. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u2	Madam President, honourable Members, let me introduce before the third reading of the Government Bill amending the school law, briefly its current state, content and position of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports on key amendments. One of the objectives of the amendment to the Education Act is the introduction of a gradual entitlement to pre-school education for children from four to three years old, while introducing compulsory pre-school education at the same time. As I said at first reading, this compulsory pre-school education is also carried out through individual education, i.e. those of parents who do not wish to educate their children from five to six years of age through school facilities, have the opportunity to enroll and choose individual education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u3	Madam Secretary, I'm sorry. Please interrupt your speech, and we'll wait for the House to calm down, because the noise here is really big... Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u4	As far as compulsory pre-school education is concerned, this is, of course, one of the options we can provide for pre-school education. Another possibility may be a detailed adjustment of children's gradual claims for access to kindergartens. We have chosen the method of combining compulsory preschool education from five to six years of age and subsequent privileges in access to education from four or three years of age, respecting the legislative technique of the current school law and, in our view, for its addressees, both teachers and parents, it is more understandable. I would like to draw attention to this method, which means going through a detailed description of the entitlements or a combination of compulsory pre-school education and the priority of access to pre-school education, both approaches appear in the European Union countries. As regards the participation of pre-school education in terms of duty, I would like to say that it is Switzerland, Bulgaria, Croatia, Denmark, Cyprus, Latvia, Hungary, Poland, Austria or Greece. In some other countries of the European Union, although we are not talking about pre-school education obligations, it exists de facto because compulsory schooling has existed since four or five years old - Luxembourg, the Netherlands or the United Kingdom. As regards the single entrance exam from the point of view of secondary schools, we are introducing a single entrance exam in tests from Czech language, literature and mathematics, following up on the pilot verification which verified the viability of this uniform entrance exam and its contribution to practice. The vast majority of schools involved in this pilot verification have proven the advantage of central single entrance tests. With regard to the purpose of a single examination, it is intended to ensure that applicants for selected courses of education completed by a senior examination of the prerequisites for study, to provide high school directors with an objective assessment of the knowledge and skills of applicants, to provide high school directors with a comparable and uniform criterion in the context of admission procedures, as well as to reduce the administrative complexity of admission procedures. I would just like to say that, in the case of a central single exam, it was not the way that it would set a hard line through which, if the candidate is not successful, he will not be able to study in secondary school, and remains the duty of secondary schools and grammar schools to present anonymously the last accepted, including how he did in the central exam, so as to increase the awareness of parents, but also to be able to build on these data from the point of view of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports in setting up better education in our schools in the future. The joint part of the graduation exam has been discussed for a long time. We are introducing three compulsory examinations of the common part of the graduation exam - Czech language, literature, foreign language and mathematics, but for the first time since the school year 2020/2021. This was shifted precisely following the introduction of uniform entrance exams at secondary schools. We consider it correct that we are not only satisfied with increasing the grant of mathematics under the framework education programme, which we have already done, but we are also interested in what the content of mathematics education is, and it seems fair to us that mathematics will be part of the graduation exam just four years after the start of the uniform entrance exam. The effectiveness of the changes related to the introduction of compulsory last year of pre-school education shall be three years later, i.e. from 1 January 2017, including the priority of access to pre-school education for children. The new rules consisting of a uniform entrance test shall apply for the first time in the school year 2016/2017. The pupils who took the single entrance exam will enter the school year 2017/2018. Three compulsory examinations of the joint part of the graduation exam including mathematics will be for the first time in the school year 2020/2021. The unified system of evaluation of written works from the Czech language will apply for the first time since the school year 2016/2017. The other changes will be effective from 1 September 2016. Now briefly on individual amendments. As regards the amendment to support pre-school education from two years from 2020, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports agrees. As regards the need to extend the network of pre-school education providers to so-called Forest kindergartens Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports agrees. [[11.00 hours]] On the other hand, we will not support the proposal that the school head could be called off without giving a reason. I consider this proposal dangerous. It would certainly not lead to an increase in the quality of school management and the educational process; on the contrary, it could lead to destabilisation. The last thing I will comment on is a proposal to postpone the amendment to the school law, so-called Section 16, or if you want joint education. I will also accompany this proposal with a negative opinion, because the amendment creates conditions for the education of some pupils with special educational needs in mainstream schools, but at the same time continues to allow for the existence of an important article in the education system, namely special education. The system of special schools doesn't change, and the special schools aren't canceled. Without change, children with moderate, severe and severe mental disabilities will be educated. There is only one change in children with mild mental disabilities - the possibilities of their education are expanding. Children shall complete their education at the second level, as specified in the Annex for mild mental disability, in accordance with this Annex. It will therefore apply to them until 2020/2021. The parent is still at the top of the line. This doesn't change anything either. Therefore, joint education is not a novelty starting on September 1, 2016. The basic principles of inclusive education include both the long-term aim of developing the education system and the strategy for education policy by 2020. From the point of view of law, this is an equal approach to children's education and this, of course, is not news to us as the Czech Republic. Pupils with special educational needs now account for less than 11 percent of all pupils in primary schools, which are about 880 thousand. Most of these children are already educated in mainstream primary schools. For pupils with health or social disadvantage, it is 97 per cent, for pupils with visual impairment 73 per cent, with auditory disability 56 per cent, with developmental learning disorders 92 per cent educated in mainstream schools. More than 25 percent of children with mild mental disability are already being educated either in normal or in special classes at mainstream primary schools. It is also not true that the system is not prepared or that there is not enough funds. This year, the budget is ready. In the next year, it will naturally be negotiated as with the other things that are entitled. Therefore, I cannot support the postponement of the amendment's effectiveness because it is not a forced process or a revolution, and on the contrary, we are responding to a system that is now very hypocritical, a system that is underfunded and that does not allow schools to implement the education of children with special educational needs of sufficient quality. Support measures are now insufficient, often funded by schools from the salaries of educators or by parents themselves. I believe you will accept that such a situation remains unacceptable. Providing support measures and stabilizing special and mainstream schools is the main objective of the amendment to the Act approved in February 2015, and I therefore believe that you will finally identify with me in the debate that delaying this part of the original amendment to the Education Act approved by the Parliament last year would not help us, on the contrary, the situation that rightly criticized by teachers would be preserved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u5	Thank you, Minister. I am opening a debate in which I have seven entries so far. First is Mrs Nováková, and Mrs Semelová will be prepared. I'm sorry, ladies, with priority rights, Mr. Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to respond briefly to the Minister's speech and say my position on this amendment to the School Act. Among other things, because the Ministry of Education has grown a bit lately - you, Madam Secretary, have not done so, but from some of its co-workers, that whatever is being presented, it is in some form that I am responsible for it, whether it is or ultimately not approved. So here I would like to make it clear that this amendment to the school law does not have my support. Things like compulsory kindergarten, compulsory preschool education, even in the form in which the Minister has now presented it, or unified high school entrances, are all things that I consider to be wrong. I have repeatedly spoken about this, and I think that will in no way help our education system. As far as math graduation is concerned, it is mandatory, in my opinion, a matter of quite legitimate and it is possible to make that decision. The term that the Ministry has set in this case is, if everything goes well, I would say extreme, because it is the first moment in which it could even start to work. I hope that the framework education programmes are adapted so that not only is not sufficient funding, but also adequate mathematics teaching is such that pupils can cope with it so that we do not deepen the frustration of pupils, parents, teachers and society from the fact that at this point in time the optional math degree is no longer mastered by a huge number of pupils. It's an ambitious plan to make it four years after it enters into force or the single entrance exams start to take place. I'd be in favour of a more conservative or more cautious approach. But when the Ministry of Education has this ambition, I believe he will do everything he can to keep us out of another critical situation here. On the contrary, I consider another decision concerning graduation to be completely wrong, and that is the central correction of Czech, essay work. I canceled it when I was the Minister of Education, based on experience, based on the reactions of the professional public, just because it didn't work, it was wrong and it exposed pupils to a situation they couldn't be prepared for. None of this came from a quality point of view. And I say this as a person who is qualified as a Czech teacher. This type of output is simply not to be evaluated centrally, it is to be evaluated by the teacher within one school, who educated students in the field of style during their studies. I don't think there's a reason for central control. It's the pressure of some people inside the Ministry or from organizations around the Ministry who think that the more things they control, the better. It is not better and it is worse in terms of the quality of the education system. I don't want to talk too much about inclusion - my last point. We're having a kind of public debate here, and we're going to continue to have it. I am convinced that we have done a lot in terms of the integration of pupils with different types of disability in the Czech Republic, that we did not have to take further steps. That the debate is a little confused, because although it does not interfere with the special schools, and the Minister here, of course, is right, but it no longer sounds clear enough that it interferes with the field of teaching or education that is now providing practical primary schools. And that, as it is now set up, even the steps that the Ministry of Education is taking, even though it says no now, will inevitably lead to primary schools practical sooner or later disappearing from our education system. I don't want to have a legal debate with the Minister right now that there aren't really any primary schools, because, of course, they exist in practice, they work well, and many people who deal with it, special educators, will tell you that this is a good way. I think the idea that we're going to cancel them in the future - I'm saying it again and I guarantee it and you'll remember my words, even though someone from the ministry is telling you that it's not going to happen, so all the steps that the Ministry is doing are going to make it happen. And it will happen within a few years that we will not have this type of educational facility in the Czech Republic. I don't think that's good. And it's not particularly good for the kids. And it is absolutely not true that those who are in favour of inclusion in the form in which the Ministry of Education presents it are thinking of disabled children, and those who are against this form of inclusion are not thinking about disabled children. That's a completely false argument. My argument against this form of inclusion is guided by the effort to create the best conditions for integration, integration of children who have physical or mental disability or mental disability. And integration - and this is important - does not mean that the children integrate at all costs in school, but integration means that they are able to have the best possible life. For this, even through education, a rich society like ours must actually prepare them. [[11.10 hours]] But the roads can be different. Even in children with lighter mental disabilities, and let's listen to the opinions of experts, in some cases the basic school can be more practical in the group of similarly disabled children. For some children with mild mental disabilities, there may be a better way of integration. But the experience, the long-term experience of successful Czech special educators, and we can be proud of the quality of special pedagogy and the results we have here, will tell you that there are two groups of children who are the hardest to integrate within normal classes, and these are people who have hearing disabilities, and these are children with mental disabilities, precisely because communication is difficult in both cases. He who has hearing disabilities does not hear his friends and others he has to hear, and he who has mental disabilities often does not understand them. For this reason, this type - or for these disabilities, integration is the hardest. When I say that primary schools are going to die out of practice, I say this because if we have decided to cancel the annex and work only on the basis of exceptions or special provisions in the framework education programme, this outcome will happen sooner or later. Finally, in the original statements of the Minister of State, this objective has been declared, and now it is slightly weakened, which I am pleased, and I hope that the weakening will be permanent. However, on the basis of everything I know about this, I predict that this will lead to restrictions and then the abolition of primary schools in practice. Therefore, I am seriously considering that we would support the idea that inclusion should be postponed, so that - not inclusion, please, this in no way, inclusion is running, it is going to happen, it is going to happen and it is good. However, in order to postpone some of the consequences arising from the amendment of Section 16. It would contribute much more to giving schools time to prepare for these changes. But most importantly, so that the Ministry of Education can do what the Minister has declared here, and that is to create the conditions, the financial conditions for the inclusion to actually succeed. The financial conditions are not yet created. And the financial conditions, I think they can't even be created by September and they can't be created in a short time. If it had been longer, the financial conditions could have been well prepared. If I had thought of the time I was in the position of Minister of Education, then our intention was to reform regional education funding, a necessary reform of regional education funding, which would also include rules for financing pupils with some form of disability, and then to adjust the system if necessary. Doing it the other way around is very risky for many reasons. So from this point of view - or even from this point of view, I think that delaying or delaying the effectiveness of Section 16 as adopted by the Chamber of Deputies would be a sensible measure in the interests of children. So I'd sum it up. The changes contained in this proposal for regulation of the school law are changes which do not have the support of the Civil Democratic Party partly because, in our view, they are the ideas that are going in the wrong direction, partly because they are the changes that return the situation, which, for example, at one time was here and proved to be absolutely wrong. And also because many of these things are not, in our opinion, well prepared so that they can actually work in a given term to improve the quality of our educational system. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, all of you, please consider these arguments when you vote on the proposal of the Ministry of Education when you vote on individual amendments. Because there's nothing worse in education than making rapid changes. When changes are made that are led by good intentions, but without knowing the specific situation, without knowing what it will do to those schools, children, parents, teachers. Changes that ultimately won't help the educational system at all. I believe that the vast majority of the changes contained in this amendment to the School Act are changes of this type. Changes that will not help our education system and changes that will not improve the quality of the school system and changes that do not solve any of the major problems our education has. And he's got a lot of them, believe it or not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u7	Thank you, and now, please, to Mrs Nováková's microphone. Mrs Semelová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u8	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I did not sign up for the debate because I would like to mark an amendment to the school law, and I do not want to mark individual amendments. It is simply because it is these amendments that reflect the positions that individual political actors logically have. So some want to give more right to parents, some want to centralize the fact that we are against compulsory pre-school education. It is logical that other political parties are in favour. I would just like to ask you now to reconsider the opportunity to support the amendment, which I have formulated, but it is there under the name of Mr Laudát. And I would even dare to say that this is not my amendment, it is the proposal of many of us from the House who take very seriously the historic challenges that are currently. Perhaps few of you doubt that we are now experiencing certain key moments for our country and mostly focus on ensuring - focusing on our safety, we know that we must preserve health and our health system. But ladies and gentlemen, in the long run, it is also a priority, and perhaps a priority, as well - perhaps a priority. It is equally important to protect and properly identify the entire education system in a certain way. That is why I have taken the liberty of reaching into general educational goals, where we ladies and gentlemen now have that our schools are informing about various world cultures. That's the target. I believe that we have information about various world cultures. But that we should have one value system, and that is a system of European culture that we will be passing on to future generations. I believe that this is an unattractive way to protect our education system from multiculturalism, which has brought about a certain loss of cultural identity for Europe. We just--we can do better. We know that multiculturalism as a beautiful idea has not succeeded in actually happening that Europe has no face today, no identifiable culture. But we know what the roots of this European culture are, regardless of whether we are somehow religiously focused, how philosophically we are - and so on. We know humanism is the foundation. And humanism simply stands on some historical roots, and that is antiquity and Christianity. But the point, ladies and gentlemen, is that this is some kind of cultural identity. Education and education at school simply cannot be done by being neutral in value: Choose. And now we're choosing. [[11.20 hours]] We are now choosing whether to protect our education system in a way for the future from the endless multiculturalism and say: in our schools, the values and traditions of European culture, which have ancient roots, are passed on. If you would approve, support this amendment, the I20, so that only schools in our territory could operate in the future, which, with their school education programme, will signify pupils that their cultural identity is European. Ladies and gentlemen, we live in the so-called. a post-communist country, but we got some benefits with the delay. And I believe that if we take a good stand on the historic challenges that we are now, we can, at some point, even be an example to other Europe. The rest of Europe is simply afraid to say what the roots of its culture are. And I know that from a number of international conferences that I talked to, and they said to me, well, we couldn't afford to say it. I dare say so. We're having key moments. We must ensure safety, we must ensure health, and we must ensure our education system in the future. Therefore, I ask you very much to support, more or less, the collective amendment, which is there under heading I 20. Make your decisions about others, of course, there I say, these are different political views. In this amendment under the heading Even number 20 is also a fact that our schools are to lead pupils to fulfill their civic responsibilities, which is another seemingly minor change. Thank you so much for considering this, and I'm begging you - it's not like you're supporting me. Please support the fact that our education system will report to something concrete in the future. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u9	Thank you and please to the microphone of Mrs Semelová, Mr Karamazov will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u10	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are at third reading, a lot has already been said around the school law. In the end, it is always widely discussed. We as the KSČM club do not have a problem with the law itself, although we consider some of the changes that go in the right direction, but that they remain halfway. Of course, the final vote of our club will also depend on some amendments that go either directly to the amended sections or to the school law itself. So allow a few words on some of these proposals. As far as individual education is concerned, there are two proposals. There is a proposal for a second degree extension, I have tabled an amendment to abolish individual education at first level even in the last year of pre-school education. And why I made this proposal, I've already explained that, so just briefly. I think, of course, the most important function the school has is the educational but also educational, social function. And it is that social literacy that is very important. We are constantly talking here or we are hearing about joint education and I think that in this case this joint education should work, that is, not for children to be educated at home, but for them to learn to live together, to learn to discuss, to learn to lose, to hear other opinions, and not to be deprived of shared experiences such as from school in nature, etc. I think that perceiving a person with all the differences is just part of life. As for another reason why I propose the abolition of individual education, it is the prestige of teachers, the expertise and quality of education. We have adopted a law on pedagogical workers, where we have asked that first and second grade educators have the highest qualification, expertise to be well prepared, in all respects. This also means methodical, psychological, didactic, etc. At the same time, we often talk about the prestige of teachers. And it also has something to do with what I'm talking about right now, which means if we let the public know that everyone can actually teach, that is, at first grade, anyone who has a secondary education with a high degree of graduating, at second grade, I think that this will certainly not lead to an increase in the prestige of teachers and that we should think about how teachers can be helped, including cooperation with the media, but also for example. - and this is very important - by increasing wages. We should also consider why a number of teachers or graduates of teaching faculties do not enter schools, why some or a large proportion of young teachers leave schools. I also think it has something to do with the questions I've been talking about here, that means prestige, teacher's salary, but also the way we knock them down, and, as I said before, everyone can teach at home. With regard to the second area on which I would like to comment, this is pre-school education. We in this direction, that means compulsory education in the last year of kindergarten before entering primary school, we support. We don't think there's a threat to parents' rights here. Here are set four hours a day, which I don't think will jeopardize the fact that parents can't pursue their children, including their various activities, but we consider this step to be half-baked because of the individual education. Because what's gonna change? It changes that a parent with a child comes to the record, yes, but all he has to do is announce that the child will be educated at home, and that's it. Then it comes to verification of knowledge, and when it is found that the child does not meet what it should meet, the level at which it should be, nothing will happen again, only it is recommended by the parents to work more with the child. So here we think it's formalism and not real compulsory education that we should be interested in. And I take that also because it is those groups that I think should go from socially excluded localities to a group of children from socially disadvantaged families where they are not given such care and where a large percentage of these children do not attend kindergartens and are actually discriminated against from the beginning of their compulsory education to some extent, they simply do not have the same starting line in the next course of their education. I will not repeat that about the way things look in Europe, Madam Secretary, but I want to mention one more thing. An amendment is tabled that two-year-olds be admitted to kindergarten. This is already allowed to some extent, but this amendment, which is tabled here, actually makes it possible even more. In my opinion, two-year-olds need completely different care than kindergarten education. They need care, which is provided in some places by the Jeselska facilities. If there are two-year-olds in kindergarten and they are still in mixed classes, that means six-year-olds, sometimes seven-year-olds, the quality of preschool education will certainly not be what it should be and what preschool preparation should be. At the same time, it is, of course, a heavy burden on kindergarten teachers when they have two-year-olds and seven-year-olds who are already in primary school. [[11.30 hours]] One final point. In pre-school education, as I said before, we otherwise support pre-school education as mandatory in the last year. I think it would have been necessary for those groups I was talking about much earlier, that is, from the age of three. Kindergarten functions as educational, educational and social, and more and more often subjugates family, or some families as regards the creation of basic habits, the development of communicative, speech skills, language skills, etc. For the uniform entrance exams in high school. We agree that uniform entrance exams should be centrally entered. However, I consider it a mistake that the Ministry of Education has not taken up the central line of success in receiving. That means the unfettered limit of who can, who can't be accepted anymore. I therefore gave my amendment so that this border should be centrally set, because I think that even in relation to how high school is financed, that is to say for the pupil, so, of course, when every high school principal sets this limit himself, he will be interested in making his school as full as possible so that he can have as much money as possible for the school. I am pleased that at the moment we are discussing a new way of financing regional education, and I believe that the changes that are being prepared there should lead to adjustment and improvement. Because, of course, this also has to do with the quality of education. If pupils with threesomes, foursomes are accepted to some high school for graduation, it certainly doesn't help the quality. We have to realize that not every kid, not every student, not every person can have a graduation. Some are skilled at various manual disciplines, at apprentices. And here I would call very, very much for the Ministry of Education to help create basic habits or such approaches to manual work, as far as primary schools are concerned, where the Ministry should assist in the renewal of school workshops, in order to prepare teachers of these disciplines at teaching faculties and to finance it. Because there's a relationship to apprentices here, there's a relationship to technical disciplines in secondary schools. Another thing I would like to comment on is proposals that we have not made, but concern the role of head of schools. I'm talking about two suggestions. One concerns a six-year term of office which would be suspended for the duration of the public office. I have a problem with this proposal because I think that the moment the school principal is elected either as a vacant representative, councilman or MP, senator, and there are two or three voting periods, so take what age it has been, and the school is already somewhere else. The school has a certain direction, teachers are educated, trained, etc., etc. And a director who should return to this place after, like, 12 or 16 years, I can't imagine that well enough. Plus, it's a concrete function where, at present, after six years, there are auditions and there couldn't be auditions all the time. The second amendment, which we do not agree with in principle, is the appeal of the Director without giving any reason. This has already been said in the opening words of the Minister. I think there is a high possibility, a high likelihood of abuse of such an attitude, such a process, and we will in no way support that. The last thing I want to talk about is the so-called question. joint education or inclusion. I would like to ask here to support my amendment, which postpones the effectiveness of Section 16 by two years, which means that it would not enter into force on 1 September 2016, but not until 1 September 2018. I would like to say that, in principle, I agree with what Mr Fiala has said here, who has made a statement, I think, very logically, why it is important for the effectiveness to be postponed. I see the protests of the regions - Zlínský, Jihočeský, Ústecký and others, I do not want to name them all. Protests of teachers of mainstream schools and special schools, respectively. primary schools (so-called "elementary schools") practical, but also consulting facilities. There are concerns not only about financial security, but about the fact that the quality of education will fall, that there will actually be a cancellation of the practical primary schools. Even if we keep hearing that it won't happen, they won't be disturbed. But they'll sort of cancel themselves. Because these consulting facilities are already under such pressure to keep children out of special schools that, of course, these places are running low. The second point is on the quality of education as regards assistance through an assistant teacher. The teacher's assistant does not have the appropriate education he needs for professional assistance for these children, nor can he replace a teacher, let alone a special teacher, nor does he have the appropriate salary. Besides, there aren't any assistants in many parts of the country. They're not. Schools ask repeatedly and have no chance of getting assistants. The inclusion requires a really prepared teacher. Primary school teachers of the usual type are very high quality, but they are simply prepared for something else. No course, a short-term course, no training can replace a five-year study at a teaching school, which is attended by a special pedagogue who is familiar with all possible types of disability, with the degree of disability, with the combined defects, with how it should operate, what methods, what forms of work it should apply. When it comes to special schools, there are also specially equipped spaces, specially equipped classes. There are special aids. There are school workshops and various workshops for practical activities, because it is important for children with mild mental disabilities to be strengthened, and it is also strengthened, practical work at the expense of the theoretical one, which helps them, and often thanks to special education, these children are given - not only through all primary schools, but also through and have better application. At the same time, I think inclusion will damage the children at all costs, and it has also been said here that they will not experience a sense of success. They - Even if the kids break themselves, if the teachers break themselves, they just don't have it, they can't do it, and they'll gradually become underdogs who have no sense of success, who are on the outskirts of that class, instead of getting to first, second, or average in a special class, it doesn't matter, but they've had some success there. So in fact, these inclusive kids would actually be discriminated against in that class of primary school. [[11.40 hours]] Next thing. Of course, it will have a major impact on the teachers. elementary school teachers already have a lot of administration. This administration will greatly increase and complicate their work. The work and consulting facilities will be greatly increased. They're already consulting facilities, they're just working on their own. And there's going to be a collapse of counseling, a lack of legal deadlines, formalism in the examination of children and so on and so on. I think it is a mistake to abolish the LMP annex for the education of pupils with mild mental disabilities. I'm just reminding you that when the amendment was approved, when it was discussed, it was promised that the amendment would not be cancelled. [[Annexes]] bohužel, the opak is true. With regard to the two-year delay, I think it is possible to use the two years to verify in several schools what the results will be, whether it will be for good or bad, both for pupils who are ordinary and for pupils with mild mental disability, but also for teachers and for counseling centres. So I'd put in a lot of credit for this verification. It may also prove, after two years, that this is not possible at all, that it is not possible to treat inclusion this way, that it will have to be reconsidered. I think it is a pity that we are often subject to various non-profit organisations with different interests, Brusel and these requirements. I think that special education here has an irreplaceable role, including primary schools, so-called practical ones, that they have their place in the education system, do highly professional work and that it would be a mistake to damn this system. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you once again to support my amendment concerning the postponement of Section 16, namely inclusion, in simple terms, of two years. This amendment is under the designation C10. At the same time, I am not sure how the procedure is, but I would also like this amendment to be voted separately. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u11	Thank you, Madame. Mr. Karamazov's microphone, please. Mrs Maxová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u12	Dear colleagues, we will decide on an amendment which is intended to significantly influence the form of Czech education for decades. We know from experience that once an obligation is introduced, it will persist. And this amendment to the Education Act brings three essential responsibilities: compulsory preschool education, compulsory part of the entrance exams for secondary schools and compulsory graduation exam from three subjects. These parts, including the amendments tabled, must be considered factually and separately. Only then can we get a place of disparate exhibition of new duties of meaningful reform for our education. I will start with the compulsory year of pre-school education, which actually extends compulsory school attendance to ten years. The result of the extension of schooling will be one big, significant and undisputed nothing. It will not spread, the children will learn nothing, and they will certainly not leave the school bench at once ready to compete with children from Finland or South Korea. I appreciate the Ministry of Education not at least trying to tell us otherwise. The aim of compulsory education is to have 100 per cent of five-year-olds in kindergartens. More than 90 per cent is likely to be low and some children are still in danger of receiving full-fledged home education without ubiquitous state supervision. I'm sure it's a terrible idea for the socialists. Yes, the proposal is aimed at children from socially disadvantaged backgrounds, but it misses them desperately. If families can't get the authorities specifically designated and equipped with appropriate powers to do this, I doubt that the school heads can do more. What the proposal really brings is senseless responsibilities for those responsible parents who, for various reasons, raise or want to raise their preschoolers at home. Even if we overlook special responsibilities of the type three months in advance to report a child's home education or examination by kindergarten, it is absolutely none of the country's business why parents raise their children at home. Nevertheless, the amendment also contains an obligation to justify the home-schooling of a preschooler. For parents and the principal of kindergartens it is another and another administration that brings nothing except that the state will unacceptably stick its nose in upbringing in decent families. In the amendment, I therefore propose that the compulsory year of the pre-school year be released without compensation, because there is simply no need for such an obligation. Ladies and gentlemen, the second proposed obligation is the uniform entrance exams at secondary schools. I would like us to have a clear comparison of what Czech pupils really can do after completing compulsory schooling, and such comparison could certainly take the form of entrance exams at secondary schools. However, if we are not to remain with statistics only, such a comparison must take a really binding form with the lower limit required for successful admission to secondary school. That's not what the novel brings. Unfortunately, Czech secondary education is struggling with a significant levelization, which is subsequently spilled over to universities. If graduation certificates and college degrees are really worth it, we need a standard. I am, of course, aware of the serious conventions of such setting. In the case of uniform entrance exams in high school, it is a wasted opportunity to set just such a minimum. Nothing will change for high school students who are struggling with a lack of pupils. They only adjust the school part of the entrance exams to obtain pupils. Successful secondary schools, on the contrary, who have a surplus, are already able to choose their pupils, and therefore do not need uniform entrance exams. As much as I do not think that uniform entrance exams would hurt our Czech education, I do not see any benefits except for other administrative burdens. And believe me, our high schools don't really need that. Ladies and gentlemen, the third proposed amendment is a compulsory math exam. Unlike other newly introduced responsibilities, this is a necessary correction of the current situation, because there is no really reasonable reason why compulsory math graduation has not been introduced together with state math, unless we count as a reason the lack of political courage to take unpopular but undoubtedly necessary measures. Compulsory mathematics graduation is something that is very lacking in Czech education. I do not think that the current trend, when it is modern and attractive to study humanities, is sustainable in the long term. It has even become fashionable to show its incompetence in mathematics to admire. Unfortunately, it is no exception that any famous personality or obtuse media star tells the nation from the screen how it fell from mathematics and how it was actually good. Such action should perhaps be criminal. The situation on the labour market is telling me the truth. While technical students have no problem finding employment, this is far from true of humanely educated students. It is the mathematics that enables us to perceive the environment, a technically extremely advanced world. It is mathematics in which pupils learn to think, think, and solve problems logically. And it's far from just technology. Mathematics interferes with all areas of our lives, even though we often do not realize it. As such, it has an absolutely irreplaceable place in the education of an individual and throughout society. After all, as well as the Czech language or foreign language, which are already graduation subjects, mathematics is also a language, a much more general language, and the only one we can agree with around the world. At present, graduating students face an absurd choice between foreign language and mathematics. We tell them: choose what you focus on - even if we know that they will need both. The mastery of mathematics, Czech and foreign languages will create the necessary basis for applying both in working life and in further study. Without reservation, and even with enthusiasm, I would support this part of the amendment if it really brought what it promises publicly. Instead of introducing the necessary compulsory mathematics graduation, however, the amendment merely states that the Government's regulation only sets out the fields for which mathematics will be compulsory only from the school year 2020-21. [[11.50 hours]] So we can believe, or we don't have to, that the government is really going to implement an obligation for all disciplines, as they were designed. But the next government does not have to feel obligated to do so, and it can determine, for example, only one field or none. For the second wave of disciplines there is no legal term and it will be at the discretion of the government when and whether it will extend this obligation to them at all. The Government's wording in the explanatory memorandum referring to the school year 2023-2024 certainly cannot be considered sufficient on such a fundamental issue. In addition, the Ministry expects a permanent exception for some fields. Unfortunately, he's keeping the fields he's considering to himself, and it's got to be enough for us to be there. are to be the fields of education of a group of art and applied art. Again, a completely inadequate, half-hearted solution. Dear colleagues, in my amendment, I am based on the establishment of a clear rule: Mathematics is a compulsory subject of graduation. As the explanatory report itself shows, most seniors are already sufficiently prepared to successfully graduate from mathematics. Nevertheless, the introduction of a new form of graduation exam from next year would be too strict. Therefore, I propose the spring examination period 2018, which provides two whole school years for preparation. There is no reasonable reason why gymnastics and students of other traditional seniors should not be able to pass the exam from three courses for which they are already fully prepared. By its regulation, the government would have provided time for pupils in the fields that still need to adapt the framework education programmes and curriculum. In contrast to the government proposal, a specific timetable will be set which effectively combines the rapid introduction of compulsory mathematics graduations with sufficient time for schools and pupils themselves to prepare. I have considered very much the possibility of a permanent exception for certain fields. The reason report presents as an example a group of fields of art and applied art due to their specificity. As much as I can agree with their differences, it cannot be ignored that the same exception could, for similar reasons of its uniqueness, require virtually every other non-technical field. Or do you think the arguments e.g. will the nurses for social services be less valid? There are too many at stake, an avalanche of exceptions that can destroy the three-prom system. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore ask you to support my amendment, which clearly sets out graduation from three subjects - Czech language, foreign language and mathematics. It is the minimum basis that Czech education needs so much. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u13	I thank you and now with the de facto Member of the Chalupa. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u14	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am only following the discussion here on framework education programmes, so I want to make it clear to you that it is not just from the media that I really will have the ambition to introduce into the schools the preparation of the population for crisis situations, before that was called the preparatory work, and we will certainly also deal with things such as extending the number of hours in schools, because when compared to the world we have almost the lowest number of teaching hours. These teachings could be included in the afternoon at a time of optional subjects, so the discussion will still be held. So I am certainly not presenting an amendment at this point, but I am telling you that I have this ambition, and I will be glad that some of you who are interested in this issue will join and we will simply work on this matter, which I think is very important especially in view of the security situation that we are exposed to today and will be exposed to it in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u15	Thank you, and please, to Mrs Maxová's microphone, Mrs Hubáčková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u16	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I would like to speak not to all the amendments, but, above all, to my amendment, which concerns step areas for kindergarten schools, which are basically being newly introduced in this amendment. I must say, then, that my original idea was that I would expand these areas and the place of employment of parents, but after talking to experts and mayors of municipalities and cities, we decided that it would be extremely administratively demanding, almost unrealistic, and that is why I gave way and, on the contrary, I drafted an amendment that actually repeals the rules in this amendment. What led me to this. Of course, it led me mainly to try not to restrict and maintain the complete freedom of choice of parents in choosing a kindergarten for my children, because I myself have experience with this. I didn't put my child in a place of permanent residence, I placed him in a kindergarten near my job, for time reasons, of course, and given the quality of that kindergarten. And it is true that we have to say that the separation circuits for kindergarten and elementary school are not the same, although the Ministry does not like to hear it, of course. In fact, preschool parents choose kindergarten on the basis of completely different criteria than those taken into account in the selection of primary schools. When selecting primary schools, they take particular account of the position of the school, so that children in the upper classes or even in the second grade can be transported to and from the school separately. On the contrary, many parents play a major role in choosing a kindergarten instead of their job, their grandparents' place of residence, because it is often more practical to place a child in a kindergarten located at their place of work or grandparents' place of employment. For a small part of parents, it is also decisive, for example. size of kindergarten, opening hours, professionalism of staff, accompanying programs or overall focus of kindergarten together with her, of course, educational program, which undoubtedly significantly affects the development of the child's personality. I must say that this morning I heard that I essentially took priority rights from parents to their kindergarten, and I must say that my amendment, of course, leaves provisions on the priority adoption of four-year-olds, respectively. three-year-olds to kindergarten schools, only leaving out of them really, really, uh, sluggish areas for kindergarten schools. This submitted amendment to the school law does not take into account the specifics of the networks of kindergarten schools. My amendment aims, even after the introduction of a compulsory pre-school year to pre-school education in any kindergarten, to give priority to children who reach at least four or more before the beginning of the school year. three years of age, effective from 1. 9. 2018 and therefore not in order to give priority to only one kindergarten according to the place of residence. The imperfections of the regulation of the introduction of school districts and sleeper nursery schools can be viewed from two perspectives, namely by legal representatives, especially parents who choose the kindergarten for their children, and from the point of view of the municipalities whose task is to ensure the formation of school districts, and thus also the school areas. Last but not least, I would not like to overlook the administrative burden for municipalities, which, of course, gives them many other new responsibilities, with the need to establish further school districts. Yesterday we were just talking to the representative of the Union of Cities and Municipalities, who is engaged in education, and she is not just any lady, as regards the influence on the Union of Cities and Municipalities, and she basically explained to us that the fallout areas and claim rates are completely wrong. The implementation of the provisions of the amendment to the School Act on School Areas and Falling Kindergarten Schools can be quite complicated in some municipalities and will not be possible to implement it without major intervention in the structure and organisation of kindergarten schools. In contrast to primary schools, mother schools are not adapted to the setting-up of separation circuits either in size or in position. I just want us to realize if we want the cities to create only one fictitious area, which, of course, are signals from the larger cities, we want parents to change their children's permanent residence just because they will only be entitled to their place in a place of residence, even if they do not want to give the child rights to the kindergarten where they have their permanent residence and therefore report their child to another permanent residence. I don't think we want to. [[12.00 hours]] Practices from other cities such as Budějovice, Pardubice and so on show that the elementary school areas are not fulfilling their function. In fact, parents are actively transferring their children to another territory just to qualify for the school they have chosen. And of course, some representatives are filing criminal charges against them, but I am glad that the Minister does not agree with this practice, of course, and I thank her for that. However, I must say that there is also a considerable influence of the fifteen statutory cities, which have joined the challenge of not being anchored in this amendment. I think that their arguments stem from a purely practical point of view and should not be ignored. I can respond here to some of the ministry's claims that the Ministry of Education claims that the introduction of rigor circuits into kindergarten is just an analogy of basic schools that function systemically, and that no one disputes them, and that the fallout will ensure the admission of a child to the Ministry of Education near the residence. I have already explained that this is not an analogy, that the criteria for school and primary and primary schools are often different. MŠMT claims that the real performance of compulsory pre-school education will allow just the fallout areas or districts. And I ask when the Minister said at the start of her speech that we are introducing compulsory pre-school education in the last year of kindergarten, but it is actually up to parents whether they want to or not. And if I don't want to, I still have an individual education. So I'm asking why we're setting up sloppy areas and implementing the pre-school year, because basically only those sloppy areas will allow us to really educate children in the pre-school year. I don't think so. And it also needs to be said that if the municipality does not have sufficient capacity for places in its kindergarten, then basically the municipality will not be able to increase the system of fallout circuits. MŠMT claims that the parent is not tied up and can choose the Ministry according to his consideration. I don't think so. The freedom to choose a kindergarten and the obligation to define a population of municipalities are mutually incompatible. Each child will just be fixed only in the nursery and the possibility of being placed in a non-space school is actually close to zero, or if I transfer the child somewhere else to a permanent residence, where the fallout area will be defined. And last but not least, we have a hiking trip that I mentioned a while ago, which means that we all seem to know that some parents, and I don't blame them, do not hesitate to rewrite their children to fictitious addresses just in order to achieve their acceptance in the primary school for which they are defined by the fallout areas, just because they do not want to attend a primary school in a place of permanent residence. Unfortunately, this situation is about fraud. I dare say that it is also about trampling the rights of those children who naturally live in a housing district and who can actually face the fact that they will not get to the school they see from the window of their home or apartment. It is also one of the main negative consequences of the ten-year practice of the elementary schools, which neither municipalities nor schools can deal effectively, and so far the Ministry of Education refuses to address it. If we order the amendment to set up a separation circuit for kindergarten schools, I think we're going to transfer the fall tourism to kindergarten schools and not just primary schools. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you for the support of an amendment that is abolishing the areas in question, but, of course, I stress that it does not limit the provisions on the priority adoption of four-year-olds or three-year-olds, as it is written, of course, in the amendment to the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u17	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, this was Mrs Radka Maxová. Before we continue with our applications, Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický reports with priority rights. Mrs. Hubáčková will wait a little longer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to say a few words or a few words at most about what my colleague Chalupa said here. I don't want to point out cheaply something that, from my point of view, should be in the law, because we talked about it in part with a colleague, and I know that he has a relatively similar view. And now, of course, I'm talking about the gate education, the preparation, whatever we call it. It's a shame. However, we must definitely focus on this in the foreseeable future and not only because it is useful and necessary that it requires us to do so properly by the public, but that unfortunately also leads to the overall security situation that surrounds us. I really think that in the near future it would be necessary to look at it again, to get back to it, and to address it at least in the form of an optional afternoon subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u19	Thank you, Secretary of Defense Martin Stropnický. We'll continue with the applications. I have yet to say that Vice-President Jermanová is canceling his apology and will continue in the meeting. Now Mrs Gabriela Hubáčková has the floor. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u20	Dear Vice-President, Dear Government, Minister, fellow Members, because there have been many speeches and we are at third reading, I will not bother you with the facts, with the amendments. A colleague here has said how our club will stand up to this, how it will vote. I would only, if I may, like to remind myself of such a small input from the Minister, who has spoken and has been published in the press on this law. September 2015: "There is no mass disruption of special schools because they do not exist. The concept of a practical school is work and does not have provisions in the law." February 2016: "The possibilities of education for the education of pupils with mild mental disabilities are expanding and can be further educated in schools designated by school law, which are today's practical schools." Young Front Today, November 2015: "Children will be educated according to the plan of normal primary schools, but with less demands on the achieved knowledge. When they are educated together, they can improve and reach higher than if they had stayed in a practical school." Currently January 2016: "The abolition of the programme according to which they have been educated so far is certainly not equal to the abolition of practical schools." Jihlava daily: "I insist that it is right for children to head for the mainstream of education. " News: "I do not insist and not all children with mild mental disabilities will be educated in mainstream education." Young Front Today November 2015: "Parents remain a very strong player in joint education. It'll be up to them how they respond to changes. They will have to decide whether to leave a child practical in school or choose a primary school where they live." January 2016: "Children who are educated in special classes with higher levels of support will have to give explicit consent if they want to leave them there." Another report: "The check on the child's right interest will be entrusted to a new office. Outputs of educational counselling facilities will be subject to revision. The review will be a legal person established by the Ministry and may be a part of the new diagnosis of special educational needs of the pupil as required.' I hope, and I very much wish the Minister and the entire Ministry that the future of our adopted law should have better outcomes and longer duration than these reports are half a year in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u21	Thank you. Minister of Education Kateřina Valachová reports with priority law. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u22	Mr President, honourable Members, I confess that I am trying very hard to be open to all subjects, comments, questions. I am trying to make the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports work differently than it has been customary for many, many, many, many years and decades maybe before me, which means that we actually have a real discussion with teachers, special educators, parents, Members, Members, Senators, Senators and specifically respond to their questions. [[12.10 hours]] During the six months of work at the Ministry of Education, no one can say that the Ministry of Education does not communicate that the Minister does not go to the regions, that the Ministry's management does not communicate with all the actors as I have described. Unfortunately, the sad result is that we have an electronic query for the implementation of joint education, for changes in regional education funding, for career regulations, that we have a telephone line with trained workers, for everyone to receive the same answers, that we are going to regions where we are not afraid to communicate with hundreds of teachers in the hall for three or four hours, we are not afraid to confront that no one has listened to them for ten years, and to answer questions that have nothing to do with the amendment to the school law, but are related to what our education looks like, and the result is what has now been discussed within the framework of the House of Lady Hubáčková. I think you all know me for a long time, so I guess you don't suspect me specifically in this hall that I would be a crazy witch or an incompetent person. On the other hand, we are witnessing an absolutely lying campaign within the media space. If I were a so-called politician, which is what I'm blamed for not being, I would have said, well, we're going to postpone the amendment to the school law. Everybody's gonna love me. 2100 - that's the day education starts to work. Why did I say I'd never do that? Not that I don't listen to what we have to do in education, but because the amendment to the school law you approved here last year is a debt repayment. For ten years, the system hasn't worked the way it's supposed to. Many of us weren't there. The amendment to the school bill you passed equals what the children are entitled to. We're not a banana republic. He also does not need to advise us on Brussels. That's what I heard. No, Brusel doesn't advise us. We want quality education, and now watch out - I hate that there is no Mrs Maxová here - at every school. Every school! At every public and private school, we want quality education as parents. Perhaps then it will not be that parents, where education is of good quality, will snoop around schools and claim their children in purpose. What's the problem? In the fact that every school is not of good quality, or in the fact that parents purposefully reclaim children? Or in the statutory cities, which Mrs Maxová mentioned, which initiated a protest against the rampage. But these are the same cities that parents want to fine, investigate, prosecute! And one more thing. We have a centralized system of the Ministry of Education? The Minister of Education can cancel schools? No way! The Minister of Education, frankly, and you know this very well, doesn't have much of a way to really manage education. There are founders - municipalities, regions, there is a normative and completely surviving system of financing. Now, then, on the questions mentioned by Mrs Hubáčková. As far as primary schools are concerned, and as is the case. Regarding the fact that I have responded to the fact that we are not interrupting special schools because they have been abolished. Yes, it did in 2005. We all know, too, and those who are educated professionally know what fate was then called. practical primary schools. The fact that they don't have the basis at this point in their current state, elementary schools practical, in school law, is true. That's why there's such a mood in the so-called. elementary schools practical, because they don't know where they are for ten years. And you approved that § 16 para. 9 finally allows them to be integrated into the system. So let's put it down so they don't know what's going on! The primary schools are practical, unlike mainstream schools, because they teach according to the annex for mild mental disability and it is a grey zone in terms of special education, as well as other special schools that are anchored in the amendment to the school law now use increased normative funding. You also know that it is not cancelled until 2019. It's okay! On the contrary, their conditions remain! But what conditions are we improving? You'll be surprised, there are a lot more children in primary schools than those who are slightly mentally disabled. It is another tiny 850 thousand children who also have special needs. They are gifted, extraordinarily gifted, increasingly having problems with speech disorders, dyslexia, dysgraphy. We bring support and finance to all of them. Teacher support, children support. But no, we will talk about practical elementary schools, which have increased normative funding, at the moment they are financed best, from 1 September they will continue to be financed best, but we will be, as it is customary here in the Czech Republic, let the neighbor die too, envy the teachers, to whom we will finally give support, that they also have it! And where's the line? Those are the different statements - a mild mental disability. Where's the line? You voted and discussed it! Light mental disability with combinations of behavioral disorders, learning disorders, autistic spectrum disorders, special education. Everything else - ordinary schools. And who's gonna decide that? Not me, ladies and gentlemen! School counseling facilities. And who's there? There are the experts, the special educators you call here! It's a technical issue, not a political one! The fact that someone's making this politically and messing with the education and quality education of every child, please. I'm not gonna be a populist!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u23	The speech by the Minister of Education raised factual points. First, Mrs Marta Semelová, then Mrs Gabriela Hubáčková, with a factual point. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u24	Thank you. I'm a little sorry for the tone that's ringing right now. I think that many of the things that the secretary here has just mentioned are a little different. The quality was mentioned here. I am concerned that this quality will go down and that private education will be strengthened, the multi-year grammar school will be strengthened, where these children will be leaving at the moment they enter from 1. 9. paragraph 16 shall enter into force. That's one point. Second thing. Yes, counseling facilities will decide. But I've already told you what the status of counseling facilities is. That there are people out there, that they're doing really well, and that if this job comes along, there's a risk of collapse. And the second thing is, these special educators are missing in mainstream primary schools. At the second level completely, because they do not receive any special pedagogy or knowledge at all during the course of education at the faculty, and at the first level teachers to an absolute minimum. Those are the basics. You need a really special educator here. So that's another point. Otherwise, thirdly, I think that all of us who have discussed here do not question the integration of children where schools allow it, where individual children's abilities allow it. But not at all costs, because then we will really hurt those children who are integrated, even those children who are ordinary pupils and teachers. And it really all reflects on the quality of education. The quality of education goes down. And so if we're dealing with the opening of the law right now... [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. - Madame...]] Let's give those two years time to actually verify it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u25	Madam, thank you. I therefore draw attention to the time of two minutes to a factual remark. Now Mrs Gabriela Hubáčková's factual point, then Mr Ivan Gabal's factual point. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u26	Thank you. I'm still specifying. I don't attack the law, I don't criticize the law. Madam Secretary is aware that we have supported a lot of things, we have discussed a lot of things. I merely drew attention to the interpretation of some points, respectively the observations that then occurred. That is why such discussions are taking place. Perhaps it would be easier if some interpretations came out better. I don't know what's wrong. At this point, I don't dare. I also concluded that I wish to the Ministry and to all of us that the law should be passed successfully and have a long term.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u27	Thank you. Now, on the point of fact, Mr Ivan Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u28	Mr President, ladies, Madam Secretary, while I promised the Minister that I would be in control and not to speak, I would just add a little bit and support her because she hasn't said a few things yet. First of all, she did not say that from the point of view of OECD comparative studies, we have a school system with the greatest social segregation power. This means gathering children with poor backgrounds in one school and children with rich backgrounds in other schools. Secondly, it has a very strong regional effect. Moravian-Silesian Region, Olomoucky Region, Ustecky Region, Karlovy Vary Region are regions where children with bad social origins most accumulate. Thirdly, the whole system of special education is a large-scale production of unemployed people. And last of all, she's not the rapporteur here. I will just remember how the Education Committee rejected my proposal to regularly monitor social and territorial inequalities in their effect on children's educational careers. If we had done this since last year, the Minister here will have a much larger number of factual evidence of social pathways. And the last one. Basic statistical studies and analyses of special education show that the number of children with mild mental disability is most defined by the capacity of a school with appropriate training for mild mental disability in their region. Because schools for mild mental disability create demand for mild mental disability. And it's the counseling that helps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u29	Thank you, Mr Gabal, for keeping time on the point of fact. We continue with the discussion by Mr Zdeněk Soukup, who is duly registered. Mrs. Golasowská will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u30	A serious colleague, ladies and gentlemen, my proper speech will be, I would say, in length identical to the factual remark. I am one of those Members who are not educators, to whom, however, the professional public in the region has several questions. I need to be clear before I vote, and I want to vote responsibly, with a few questions as regards the possible withdrawal of the application of Section 16. What basically requires what is called inclusion or integration? I'd call it more of an integration. Long-term preparation in several basic ways. First, the organisation of teaching. Introducing new models of teaching. Madam Secretary, can you respond to that? Next, it's funding. I am convinced here that there is no need for answers, because the Minister has stressed several times that it is essentially financially covered. Further adaptation of school spatial equipment. Handicap. I'll get to that next. Teacher training. Changes should already occur at the teaching faculties. Do we have a sufficient team of advisors, teachers, who will basically implement this extensive project? Last but not least, a change in the model of cooperation between the caring family and the school. As part of integration leading to inclusion, it is necessary to manage the coexistence of several basic target groups concerned by these processes. First of all, they're people with disabilities. Furthermore, they are persons with sensory disabilities such as deafness, blindness or deafness. Persons with mental and combined disabilities. This is probably where the law refers to a mild mental disability, as we have discussed several times. And people with reduced social adaptability, or I would call it a low level of social intelligence. As part of integration, the least problematic pupils with physical disabilities are in need of physical assistance, assistance and a suitable barrier-free environment. Pupils with sensory disabilities require certain specific training of certain skills given by the type of disability. That's it. Blind writing, sign language, etc. The school will have to cope with this process by its own teachers. That's the question. Pupils with mental disabilities are not primarily able to handle objects requiring logical and abstract thinking. That's a clue I didn't make up, but it's basically from experts in my region. They're not able to learn so-called. analytical-synthetic method and need other, more appropriate teaching or teaching methods. The organisation of teaching must respect this fact. Are we ready for this? In some subjects, e.g. In numbers, reading, writing, the class would have to share. In other subjects, teaching would have to take place together. Such as drawing, music education, working education, etc. But there are others, I'd say, relationship issues. For example, experts argue that pupils with reduced social adaptation cannot be combined with pupils with mental disabilities, etc. There will be a lot more relationships like this in groups. In my opinion, inclusion must not harm anyone. Education must be carried out for the benefit of all pupils involved. Inclusion - I really think so - is the right way and every civilized society should follow it. Balancing all individual requirements of pupils and setting a suitable model of their support is a very difficult task for which, according to practice, our education is not prepared again. Madam Secretary, can you disprove these questions and explain them?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u31	I thank Mr Soukup. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the Social Democracy Club Roman Sklenák. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u32	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, I have a great request for all of you. I'm sure it's legitimate to ask questions here, ask the secretary, say whatever you think is appropriate. I'm a Democrat, and I don't want to limit anyone. But the third reading actually went differently once. At the third reading, we gathered here to vote. Yes, it has become a custom here to hold a debate, a long, several hours, and a third reading. But I have a big appeal, please, when I'm looking at the board. Four entries, including three coalition MPs. It's not just the third reading and it's just this hall. There are committees, too, galleys. And I have a request, if you're interested in anything that doesn't need to be dealt with here from this place, try to move it. I would very much like us to get to the vote. Do as you please, of course. But please try to think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u33	I thank the chairman of the Social Democracy Club. We will now continue following this correct remark by speaking to my colleague Golasowská. Mr. Fiedler will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u34	Thank you for the floor and have a lovely afternoon. I will certainly be brief, although I also have a question here, or rather what is bothering me in connection with the introduction of compulsory pre-schooling. I know that an amendment to the law targets families in difficult social situations, and since I have worked in families, I am a man of practice, so I know how hard it is for families to follow some responsibilities. Plus, there's no sanction system. I would be very interested to know that I, as a parent, will not send a child to a preschool facility from the age of five, what sanctions will be there. Whether the sanctions can be so much that children will be taken into institutional education. Or we could touch their finances, which would be a problem, because they're poor families, and they'd fall into even greater poverty. I wonder how they're gonna do it in kindergarten, because it's really a practice thing. That means if the principal, the teacher will somehow contact the family. After how many hours or missed days? At the same time, I would also intercede in this context, because I think that working with preschool children is specifically about working with the family, and I very much intercede for strengthening field preventive work in families with children, because school is not just a child, but of course a parent matter. And if the baby doesn't have family backgrounds, it's really difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Golasowská. Now, Mr Karel Fiedler. Mr. Ludvík Hovorka will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u36	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would only follow up on what was said here moments ago from the President of the Sklenák Club that too many government Members are speaking here. It wasn't three out of four, I registered four out of the last five. And where it comes from. Well, maybe the one, if we call it that, isn't the disorder or the impulse, I can see it in the interpellations. I once did the statistics by interpelling the Prime Minister, and there I calculated that over 87 percent of the interpellation was to the Prime Minister from among the government coalition and 70 percent from among the members of his own party. Maybe here, let's look for a little bit of dirt that's here. But now let's go to the law. I'll try to be very brief. I would like to ask colleagues and club presidents to consider how they will deal with the vote on amendments L1 and L3. I know there are different opinions. I have been trying to address this amendment, what I have been dealing with for some time now, so that we do not get enough students out of schools that are not interested in the labour market and, on the contrary, technical disciplines, companies that are engaged in industrial and engineering production, have a permanent problem of obtaining qualified power. I'll just read a little bit of justification. It's a one-time thing, so I really don't want to delay. The regions are newly given competence to manage the structure of vocational education in their field of competence. Some regions already progress this way, only this activity is not formalized. The Regional Authority is obliged to consult representatives of relevant employers, trade unions and the Regional Branch of the Labour Office in advance of the list, which the Region may establish - may establish - a permanent advisory body. The management of the field structure is essential for the effective optimisation of secondary schools set up by the region. It's not about grammar school. Colleagues and colleagues, if you've listened, it's nothing to try to turn the world around and reverse the education system. It is just something that tries to help effectively improve the situation in that we have too many students in fields that do not require employers, which I think is the most important thing, not if they are popular, and too few students or apprentices in the fields that employers require. This is the thing, if you have listened to the citation of a justification that is not strict and binding, but it is based only on the experience that I know are in Slovakia, there is a slightly different way, this inspired me to do so. And I think that this amendment, it concerns points L1 and L3, can only help the current situation. I would therefore like to ask you to support these proposals in order to consider your position, if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u37	I thank Mr Fiedler. Now, Mr Ludvík Hovorka, Mr Josef Novotný will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u38	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, I see that there is a great deal of effort to integrate children who are disabled into ordinary teaching. I think that this is possible in the case of disability, but I see it as a big problem for schools, especially for small schools, the inclusion of mentally disabled children. I think that if this is applied consistently, it will at least lead to the creation of two-speed education, which means big schools in cities may somehow cope with it, but smaller schools in villages and small towns will never deal with it in my opinion. And it will be a big problem for municipalities and cities and, of course, for parents of children who will consider very much whether to put their children in such schools in villages or then in large cities. I therefore recommend your attention to the amendments to postpone inclusion by two years and, on the one hand, my amendment to the letter K, which says that the relevant points of Section 16 on inclusion will be dealt with taking into account the possibilities of the school. I consider this to be important and there is great pressure from the mayors of municipalities and cities to consider well the consequences, which if we leave the law as it may be. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u39	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. I will ask my colleague, Josef Novotný, for a little patience because Mrs Adamová, with a point of fact, came forward, then Mr Josef Novotný. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u40	Thank you for the floor. I'm not gonna talk about this at all. I just need to announce that I voted against the 198 vote, but it is in favour of the high school. I don't want to question the vote, just for the record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u41	Thank you. Now, Mr Josef Novotný, Mr Martin Lank will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I want to assure my fellow President of Mr Sklenák's parliamentary club that I have taken advantage of the possibilities and have discussed my amendments in the school committee. But let me stress some things here, though. I'll be very brief. My first question is whether you really think it is necessary to support humanities and that we have enough disciplines or pupils in technical fields. I don't think so. Of course, a lot of businessmen think so, a lot of the authorities think so, a lot of the mayors think so. Just by giving various scholarships, they support the fields so that the technical fields really go to pupils in a significantly larger number than they currently are. Why am I talking about this? I am talking about this because I proposed in my amendment that all pupils outside the fields referred to in Sections 62 and 85 take the compulsory final exam of mathematics. Why? If we do that, from about a few hundred disciplines, which are now registered at the Ministry of Education, we will select about 60 or 80 disciplines, where we will say that he is to graduate there from mathematics, it will, of course, lead to less interest in these fields, rather than greater interest. Therefore, I think that if we want to support technical education, math graduation should be compulsory in all fields beyond those I have mentioned. In this part, I would ask you to support my amendment under the heading. H16 through H18. The second part of my amendment concerns the entrance exams. We're talking about administration, it's big in schools, etc. I propose that the only criterion, the only criterion in the admission to high school in high school, is the single centrally tender entrance exams at secondary schools, which means that there are no other criteria such as the evaluation of various Olympics or results from primary schools, etc., because then, of course, these results can be adjusted, manipulated, etc. This part is in my amendment under the numbers H1 to H15. Otherwise, I would like to thank the Minister for finding courage and coming up with an amendment to the School Act, because it must really be something that needs courage. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u43	I thank Mr Novotný. Now, Mr Martin Lank. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u44	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, fellow Members, I promise to try to be as brief as possible, because it is in my interest and in the interests of all of us, that we can vote this as soon as possible. However, before we get to the final vote, let me express some concern for the Dawn Parliamentary Club about the impact of unthinkable inclusion. She is a very interesting question, where is the origin of inclusion in education? The Czech Republic lost more than eight years ago before the European Court of Human Rights a dispute with its parents against the inclusion of 18 Romani children from Ostrava into a special school. At that time, the State committed itself to addressing the problem of children with diagnosis of mild brain dysfunction in the European Court. And today's abolition of practical schools is the result of this very judgment. The truthfulness of this information was publicly confirmed at the end of February of this year by the Deputy Minister of Education Stanislav Štech. He also confirmed that inclusion mainly addresses the issue of children with this disability, but does not take almost any account of the needs of children with other disabilities. There are things happening in Czech education that should definitely not belong in it. Some schools have decided to ban parents from entering school because it is the parents who multiply cases of assault. Recently, the whole Czech Republic was shocked by the suicide of a teacher caused by the attacks of pupils. In 2014, the pastor and teacher David Kavka got into serious trouble when he flunked a Muslim student at the Central Medical School in Ústí nad Labem. Her father threatened to intervene with the Ombudsman, to mediate and argue that the educator is biased against Islam, and even by being a racist. In a number of schools, the classrooms are currently filled to the maximum. For example, my son joined the first class in Jihlava in this school year, and all first - year classes have about 30 children. You can imagine the qualifications of a teacher and its ability to devote itself to individual children who would need it is logically very limited. In summary, managing increasingly self-confident children and physical, but also legal attacks by parents, all of this makes the profession of teacher already a risky profession and school almost a war zone. This is what we should be dealing with, not making the situation worse. One in quotation marks only a hyperactive child can disrupt the flow of teaching quite significantly, and before we incorporate another, even with a more fundamental handicap, we must be sure that schools and teachers will have the conditions to do so so without impacting on the quality of teaching of all children in the classroom. It is more than obvious that unthinkable inclusion in school will deepen many problems. In our view, it is necessary to proceed with caution in this regard, because the consequences could be fatal. We will therefore support the amendments that mitigate this principle, the principle of inclusion and delay it. And I'd like to ask you the same thing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u45	I thank Mr Martin Lanka. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura and then Mr Jiří Mihola are now reporting. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u46	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to respond to the Madam Secretary's speech. When she called us so emotionally "you approved it," my colleagues and I didn't. Don't say "you approved it," you were talking to your colleagues. Your colleagues approved it. We don't. First of all. And two. It's not a professional question at all. It's pure politics. Dangerous idea of the left. That's just the way it is. Don't disguise it as an expert opinion, that's not true. You're putting your mind at it. If you don't like an expert opinion, you'll call it faulty or question who says so. So it's just a political decision. And we'll decide that, not the experts. We were against it last time, and today we're against it again. And that's one of your ideas after another, Madam Secretary. Also a mandatory senior year of kindergarten. You're introducing this for reasons other than what you're officially saying. You don't even have the guts to tell the microphone why you're doing this. It doesn't lead to the goal, we're just gonna waste our time bothering decent parents who want to choose a different alternative. There's a significant minority of them, so leave them alone! Don't worry about them!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u47	Mr Petr Fiala with a point of fact before Mr Jiří Mihola's proper application. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u48	Thank you. Just a brief explanation or clarification on what Mr Lank argued here, and this concerns the need to address the consequences of the D H judgment against the Czech Republic and the form of strengthening the inclusion that is taking place now. I want to make it clear that the consequences of D H judgment against the Czech Republic had to be dealt with because it was a permanent theme of the Council of Europe, because it was a topic with which many ambassadors spoke to our friendly countries. However, this solution has taken place, and this solution is contained in the action plan of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, which was adopted in 2013 and which took concrete steps to cope with the situation that some European institutions have faced. The important measure was improved diagnostics, which should prevent children from practically entering primary schools who would not go there because of disability, but were included there because they had disadvantageous social or cultural conditions. These measures, which we have taken in practice, have worked and there is no reason for us to continue as a measure on the basis of the H judgment. And by the way, and this must also be said, the Czech Republic has never committed itself to discussing this issue at any international forum that it would disturb elementary schools practical. We made a commitment to better diagnostics. We have committed ourselves to dealing with the situation, to preventing children from being assigned to special, basic, practical schools for social and cultural reasons, but for nothing else, the Czech Republic has committed itself. It is therefore not possible to argue that further steps in inclusive integration are due to H.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u49	Mr President, you have been signed up for a point of fact. Thank you. Now, Mr Jiří Mihola, at this moment, the last one to be logged into the debate at third reading. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u50	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Minister, fellow Members, I have listened with interest to the whole debate and just a few final words for the KDU-ČSL club to comment on this amendment and amendments. I will be as brief as my colleague Sklenák. I hope that the familiar phrase will work out - tell them shorter, they'll like you better. KDU-ČSL is ready to support the school law as a whole. We are also ready to support some amendments. We focused on this very closely, both at the parliamentary club, on committees, on our school expert committee, etc. However, I would like to emphasise here, above all, the support of one amendment, which you will find under I16 to 19. It concerns individual or domestic education at second grade primary school. We promised to support this amendment a year ago, and now also a few weeks ago at a press conference with representatives of four other political clubs, namely YES, ODS, TOP 09 and Dawn, so I believe that this proposal will pass. I understand that emotions are primarily instigating the introduction of a compulsory preschool year in kindergarten schools. Maybe it's useless because over 90 percent of kids go there anyway. I have pointed out more than once that there are countries in Europe like Germany, where they can do without the compulsory year and work well. There are countries, as has already been mentioned here, where they even have compulsory schooling from four years of age, such as Luxembourg, also work, also do not consider it any yoke or tearing away children from the family, etc. And it's been in a number of countries since it was five years old. It is interesting that, quite without a problem, or with small problems, as I felt, we decide on the introduction of mandatory entrance exams. And I also didn't notice any strange emotions in math school. Maybe just because it's far enough that the mandatory math degree will start to work. A number of previous speakers have already spoken for inclusion. I would like to stress that neither I nor the parliamentary club are opposed to inclusion, or joint education. In my case, this would be particularly absurd, because we are a teacher of the Masaryk University Pedagogical Faculty and there many people are professionally dedicated to this issue, dedicated earlier and will continue to do so. [[12.50 hours]] As far as the Minister is concerned, I welcome her assurance on financial matters in particular regarding the support of teaching assistants and other related matters. But I'd like to make a little comment or a little assurance about one more thing. One thing is that we declare that we are not interrupting any special and practical schools. But if they lose their pupils, they'll have economic problems, that's obvious. It would be good here to hear who's gonna take responsibility if these schools are just gonna miss the funding. So they don't just have to end up with a drop in finance. So that's what I'd like to hear, this argument, too. Finally, there has also been a statement on Mr Fichtner's amendment, dismissing school directors for no reason. We refuse to do that. I think, with all due respect, it's a typical example of flying from wall to wall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u51	I thank Mr Jiří Mihol for his speech. And since I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word. Madam Secretary? Yes. With the final word of the Minister of Education, Kateřina Valachová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, because I have been called upon in the debate, so, of course, I feel the duty of my colleagues to answer. Thank you for the debate. As far as pre-school education and graduate districts are concerned, I may disagree with all of you, but I just want to assure Members that pre-school fellowship districts are only intended to ensure the practical feasibility of saying that children will be entitled to access pre-school education gradually from four, from three and subsequently from two years to the next, so we must say where. If we say in the place of permanent residence, we respect the way in which kindergarten schools are financed. You know, within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes, there is a link to the permanent residence. As far as the freedom of choice of parents is concerned, it has to do with capacity. I can assure you that this government is doing its utmost to ensure that capacity is sufficient so that parents can actually vote. A great task awaits us not in kindergartens, but rather in primary schools, where the demographic wave is now moving. This year it will be one billion crowns of national resources for capacity increases, next year too, and in the case of IROP it will be 10 billion for capacity increases. I'm sure you know it's by far the most in the last ten, maybe even 15 years. As regards the possibility of delaying the so-called Section 16 or joint training, let me say that the delay alone will not solve anything. The only thing we can solve is really very carefully preparing changes and making the maximum transition period. We have done this before. Within a two-year transitional period, school advisory facilities have room to rediagnostic all children and connect them to new support needs, as well as for this period of two years, the existing support measures apply alongside the new ones. That means the rush is gradual. As of 1 September 2016, nothing revolutionary is really going to happen, because school advisory facilities are now issuing recommendations under existing regulations, not according to new ones. That means the next school year won't be a year of revolutionary change. [[It's very busy in the hall.]] As for the so-called practical elementary schools, and I am asking you, I am not saying so-called that anyone involved in education in these schools should be offended, but I am merely expressing myself on the legal basis -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u53	Madam Secretary, I am interrupting you for a moment and asking the House for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u54	We don't bother you either. We don't bother you either, and I insist. As far as their future is concerned, the vast majority of them will be schools under § 16 para. 9, that means special schools. However, those of them, for whom this will be organized, will also be able to choose for themselves, of course with the founder, to be integrated into mainstream schools and to take advantage of the very new support measures. As far as economic sustainability is concerned, what my colleague Mihola says is that so-called primary schools have been practical for years, at least six, seven years ago, complaining precisely that the number of children in their schools is declining, leading to possible concerns about economic sustainability. I would like to remind you that the amendment to the School Act last year provides these schools with increased normative funding until 2019. You know that I have tabled changes to regional education funding, where there is an ambition for budgeting under these new amendments to the budget of 2018. This means that we have a 2017 year left and that is where the support for mainstream schools will be a special development subsidy programme and, of course, in the case of practical primary schools, we will be able to maintain increased normative funding. And there is an expert team of MŠMT regions, municipalities and associations of local authorities where we deal with these issues, and next week we will inform precisely that primary schools have no practical concerns as to how further they will evolve. As far as funding is concerned, as I have already said, funding is ensured. Since 2018, it should be systemic, as Professor Fiala said, meaning that special educational needs for children should be linked to normative funding and should basically be centrally sent by the Ministry of Education. With regard to questions in terms of school equipment, there are very often questions about school wheelchairs. So here I'd just like to say that the school's wheelchairs, we lie a little bit in our pockets again, should be properly implemented according to the construction regulations since 2001. The National Council for Disabilities constantly criticizes that this is not being fulfilled. As far as the debate on barrier-freeness is concerned, I remember that it was just last year that it was discussed and that the Chamber of Deputies was rejected by any softening in terms of barrier-freeness. As far as finances are concerned, we have those. We have them within the IROP for school-freeness in terms of the gradual preparation of schools or the improvement of school-freeness, but of course it is necessary to say that if a child, who, for example, has a disability and should be directed to a mainstream school, of course this will be considered and the educational counselling facility will not recommend that school where the barrier-freeness is not, that is the accessibility. So the point is, we can't imagine that in terms of special needs, it's that someone says "these" to me, and the school guidance facility will provide them. It is always a question of specific recommendations and specific conditions at a specific school. As for the number of special educators, I just want to say here that we have special educators, teachers 7, 167, special educators in schools we have 656, special educators in pedagogical-psychological counselling 390 and special educators in SPC 453. Teacher's assistants have 10 382, on assigned posts 6 709, of which for socially disadvantaged 850 and in youth homes 254. This figure is sufficient for the next two years of the transitional period. Regarding criticism that we do not need a revision of education in special pedagogy, that is true, it is a deep matter within the teaching faculties. Work on the change of fields has already been started. With regard to support for communication with the family, we are counting on the use of European money through so-called school assistants, who will reduce the administrative burden within schools in that they will be intended to communicate with different actors outside schools, that is, with OSPOD, with labour offices, with social services, with the family, and will ensure a higher degree of comfort so that teachers are not alone. This call through templates will be announced in April 2016. As far as the organisation of teaching is concerned, I would just like to remind you, because the question focused on the slight mental disability of children, that we did not cancel the attachment for mild mental disability without compensation, but there is a modified framework education programme for special educational needs, i.e. for mild mental disability, and it is the result of a five-year working group, that is, with the participation of all associations, including the Association of Special Teachers. The fact that each comma is not a 100% match is simply a matter of expertise. It's never gonna be like that. And I just want to conclude that, as far as diagnostics are concerned, she's being run by school counselors. I believe I answered all the questions you asked me. Thank you. Yes, I'm still sorry. From the point of view of pre-school education, as it will be from the point of view of duty or sanctions against parents, if they do not do so. So I just want to point out that compulsory pre-school education is designed for four hours a day from the point of view of the implementing regulation. Cards will work exactly the same as they do now, I've already said it in the first reading. [[13.00 hours]] The sanctions in the event of excesses that someone would not send children to kindergarten in the sense that it might have an impact on their preparation for compulsory schooling are exactly the same as now, which is the extreme case of contacting children's socio-legal protection bodies, we do not change the legislation in any way. Ladies and gentlemen, I will, of course, be available to you from the point of view of those topics that interest you in education, as well as in the context of roundabouts or seminars, conferences within the coming months. Thank you for the discussion of the school law in committees and in plenary and for the substantive debate across the political spectrum. Thank you and I beg you to support the government proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u55	Now I ask the rapporteur if she wants to have the final word. That is not the case, in which case I will invite her to inform us, as rapporteur for the guarantee committee, of the procedure for voting, then of the amendments and before the vote, of the opinion of the guarantee committee. I'll always ask the Minister for the same thing. Madam rapporteur, please, your proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u56	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, I stand here today in a very difficult role because we are discussing the school code. Many amendments have come to the basic material. The difficult thing was that many targeted at the core of the same problem, which is why it was very difficult, not for me, but especially for legislation, to process the amendments so that if we accept them or do not accept them, the law remained good and good. Therefore, colleagues, I apologize for the slow and detailed reading of the procedure. If you approve it and we vote on it, I will try to explain the individual points. So if you don't mind, I'd like to try to load up and get you acquainted with the procedure of this law. It's really not easy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u57	So, rapporteur, I will ask the House once again for peace, because the noise is too much and the procedure is really not easy. And please also your party colleagues to finally keep their voices down. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u58	So I'm going to approach you to the procedure of the government bill amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on preschool, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education, school law, House press No. 611. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the procedure for this press. In the second reading of the bill, no motion to reject was made. We can therefore vote on the various amendments that have emerged from the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports and from the second reading of this bill, as set out in the Chambers of Press No. 611/4. These proposals were discussed and voted by the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a guarantee committee at its 24th meeting on 2 March t.r. and adopted the resolution contained in the Houses of the Press 611/6. First of all, I would like to introduce you to the entire voting procedure agreed by the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Body Resolution No. 155, which we would subsequently approve, and then I would like to take you through the whole vote. 1. Okay, first of all. The first vote would be on the legislative technical adaptations mentioned in the press 611/6 below the figure 1. In the previous paragraph 9 of the Government Bill, the words "in § (?) " the words "paragraph 3' shall be inserted. In point B2, the words "paragraph 3' are inserted after the words "Section 44'. In point A29, the words "and for children located in its territory in a children' shall be inserted after the words "in its territory'. 2. The second vote would be a joint vote on proposals I16, I17, I18 and I19. These are the amendments of my colleague, Mr Laudat, which are individual second-level education. These amendments are identical to the proposals A7, A26, A27 and A28, therefore there is no more voting on these. 3. The next would be the vote on A1, A2, A3, A8, A17, A18, A19, A22, A23, A24, A25, A29 and A31. These are amendments from the resolution of the School Committee. 4. Furthermore, we would vote on the proposals G9, G10, G11, G12, G13, G14, G15 and G16, these are the amendments by Mrs Maxová, who proposes the abolition of the separation circuits in kindergarten schools. Proposals G11 to G16 are identical to those of G3 to G8. Therefore, we can no longer vote on G3 to G8. 4.1. Furthermore, we would vote on G1 and G2, once again, is Mrs Maxová's proposal, regulating the priority admission of children from four years of age to kindergarten schools, but only if the G9 and G10 proposals are not approved. These are factually related to G3 to G8, which have already become unvoting. 4.2. The A30 vote, including A4, A20 and A21, are amendments to the school committee. They regulate kindergartens in the forest, a nursery can't be a kindergarten in the forest, the definition of a kindergarten in the forest. But only if the G15 isn't approved. 4.2.1. On the contrary, if Amendment G15 and A30 are approved, we must vote separately on A4, A20 and A21 only if the G15 is approved. 5. As a further vote, we would vote on proposals H1 to H15, these are the amendments by Mr Novotný, who proposes to introduce mandatory uniform entrance exams for all secondary schools. 5.1. Voting on A10 including A9, A12, A13, A14 and A15 only if H10 is not approved. It is a resolution of the Committee on Science, Culture, Youth and Sports, which regulates uniform admission procedures for sports grammar schools. 5.1.1. On the contrary, if H10 and A10 are not approved, we must vote separately on A9, A12, A13, A14, A15. Only if H10 and A10 are approved will it be unvoting. 5.2. The next would be the vote on proposal A11 only if the proposal H10 is not approved. Resolution of the Committee on Science, Culture, Youth and Sports, increasing the weight of a single entrance exam from one half to 60 percent. 5.3. Furthermore, we would vote on C7 only if H10 is not approved. This is an amendment by Mrs Semelová, setting the limit of success for individual entrance exams by special regulation of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. 6. Another would be voting on the A16, it is the resolution of the Committee on Science, Culture, Youth and Sports, which governs the issue of so-called. young technicians. 6.1. Voting on the L4 proposal, Mr Fiedler's amendment, which also proposes an adjustment to this issue only if the A16 is not approved. 7. We would also vote B1, B2 and B3, these are Mrs Bohdalová's amendments, and this is a kindergarten from two years from 2020. 8. Furthermore, we would vote B4, which is, in turn, my amendment, extending the six-year term of office of the school head in the event of a release for the performance of public office. [[13.10 hours]] 9. The next vote would be the vote on the I1 to the I15, these are the amendments of Mr Laudát, which are regulated by the so-called 'Laudát'. Czech schools without borders. 10. Furthermore, we would vote on the I20, once again the amendment of Mr Laudát, these are the general objectives. 11. Then we would vote on the I26, an amendment by Mr Laudát on the involvement of the school councils. 12. Then we will vote on proposals I21, I22, I23, I24 and I25. Here, my colleague Laudát proposes the abolition of compulsory pre-school education. The amending proposal I21 and I22 are identical to the proposal D5, which is why we can no longer vote on D5. If proposal I22 is approved, no vote shall be taken on A5, A6, C1, C2, C3, C4, J1, J2 and E1. If I24 is voted, the D6 cannot be voted. If the I25 is voted, the D7 cannot be voted. 12.1. Voting on proposals A5 and A6 only if proposal I22 is not approved. It is the resolution of the Committee on Science, Culture, Youth and Sports, which proposes the abolition of the obssolent provisions. 12.2. Voting on C1 only if proposal A5 and A6 are not approved. It is a proposal by Mrs Semelová, who proposes to abolish individual education in kindergarten schools. 12.3. Voting on D8 and D9. Mr Karamazov's amendment. This is an adjustment to transitional provisions and effectiveness which is factually related to proposals D5 to D7. 12.4. Voting on C2, C3 and C4 only if I22 is not approved. It is Mrs Semelová on the abolition of individual education in kindergartens. 12. 5. Voting on E1 only if C4 is not approved. It is an amendment by Mrs Nohavová, the possibility of abolishing individual education if she fails to demonstrate the required level of education for her verification. 12. 6. Voting on J1 and J2 only if E1 is not approved. It is an amendment tabled by Mr Kudela. It proposes a change in the date of notification of individual education plus the possibility of abolishing individual education if the verification fails to demonstrate the required level of education. 13. Voting on C5 and C6. It is the amendment made by Mrs Semelová - the abolition of individual education at the first level of primary school. 14. Voting on C8 and C9. Again, Mrs Semelová's amendment - free education and stay in the teams. 15. Voting on C10. This is another amendment by Mrs Semelová - for delaying the effectiveness of joint education. 16. Voting on D1, D2, D3, D4. It is the amendment of my colleague Karamazov - he proposes the introduction of a general compulsory mathematics graduation - graduated in years for specific fields. Amendment D1 is identical to the proposal H16, so we can no longer vote on H16. [[Noise in the hall, Madame is waiting.]] 16.1. Voting on F1 and F2 only if D1, D2 and D3 are not approved. It is an amendment to my colleague Dobešová's proposal and means limiting the fields in which she will graduate from mathematics plus the establishment of these fields in the annex to the law. 16.2. Voting on H17 and H18 only if D1 or F1 and F2 are not approved. It is the amendment of my colleague Novotný - compulsory mathematics everywhere. These two amendments are factually related to H16 - equal to D1, that is, the same result of the vote as for D1 should be adopted. It's that math thing that's mandatory everywhere. 17. Then we would vote on the proposal K1, which is the amendment made by Mr Hovorka, who read the second reading of the amendment to Section 16, the new paragraph 12 is added. 18. The next would be the vote on L1 and L3. It is the amendment of Mr Fiedler, who proposes that the areas of vocational training be processed by the region. 19. Voting on L2. Again, the amendment proposed by Mr Fiedler, who proposes the abolition of the National Education Council, but only as part of the law. 20. Another would be the vote on the M1 - an amendment by Mr Fichtner proposing the possibility of the Director being dismissed without giving any reason. And the last vote would be to vote on the law as a whole. Mr Vice-President, I took the liberty of proposing a procedure, and now let's do what we want with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u59	This will not work, my colleague, because as rapporteur, you will have to work with me on this course. Does anyone have a reservation on the procedure proposed, as approved by the committee? I see that we do not, so we can vote on this proposal, in the vote number 217, which I have launched. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposed procedure. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 217, from 177 in favour of 173, against 2. The motion was accepted. So we'll follow the procedure. I therefore request a proposal for the first vote and the rapporteur's position and the Minister's.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I beg your pardon, if I get involved and have to negotiate with the legislation, it is not really easy. Firstly, we are voting on legislative technical adaptations, as stated in the press 611/6. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is positive. Recommendant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u61	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 218, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 218, from 178 in favour of 168, against 1. We may proceed, the motion has been accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u62	The second vote is a joint vote on proposals I16, I17, I18 and I19, which is the amendment by Mr Laudát, who proposes to abolish - no - the possibility of individual education at second level. These amendments are identical to A7, A26, A27, A28, therefore A7, A26, A27 and A28 become unvoting. The position of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u63	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 219. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 219, from 178 in favour of 84, against 76. The motion was not accepted. [[13.20 hours]] The appellant is going to check the minutes of the outcome of the vote. [[There's a lot of unrest in the room. Checkout request.]] I beg the peace of the House. I'll check you all out in the meantime, of course. I'll ask you to sign up with your I.D. cards. Mrs Fischerová reporting. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u64	Thank you for the floor. I question this vote because I voted in favour, but I was told, please, that it was not the case. So I'm questioning it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u65	The minutes of the vote result are not in line with your will expressed by the vote. We will decide on the adoption of the objection in the 220 vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of the adoption of the objection. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 220, from 167 in favour of 158, versus 2. Objection received. We shall therefore repeat the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u66	Do you want me to read it again?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u67	No, there's no need. I think we know what we're going to vote on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u68	If we know what we are voting on, it is about introducing individual education at second level.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u69	There. The opinions were negative. We are voting in the 221 vote that I have launched, and I am asking who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 221, from 170 in favour of 86, against 78. The motion was accepted. [[Cheers and applause in the right side of the hall.]] If there is no interest in checking the results of the vote, then we shall continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u70	If I may, another vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u71	Another vote, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u72	I'm waiting for him to calm down. Thirdly, we shall vote on proposals A1, A2, A3, A8, A17, A18, A19, A22, A23, A24, A25, A29 and A31. These are amendments from the resolution of the School Committee. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u73	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 222 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 222, 172 for 168, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u74	Next vote. We will vote on proposals G9, G10, G11, G12, G13, G14, G15 and G16. It is an amendment by my colleague Maxová, who proposes the abolition of separation circuits in kindergarten schools. Proposals G11 to G16 are identical to G3 to G8, which is why G3 to G8 are becoming non-voting. Opinion on this amendment - The Guarantee Committee has not delivered an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u75	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 223 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 223, from 173 in favour of 59, against 88. The motion was not accepted. Let's keep going.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u76	If the proposal has not been adopted, we will now vote on proposal 4.1. This is again Mrs Maxová's proposal, which regulates the preferential admission of children from four years of age to kindergarten, but only if the G9 and G10 are not approved, both amendments are factually related to G3 to G8 which have already become unvoting. [[The lady from the legislation came to the speaker's desk with notice.]] I forgot to say that we are voting on the G1 and G2 proposals at the beginning. And the committee has not delivered an opinion on this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u77	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting 224, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 224, from 174 in favour of 55, against 88. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u78	Another proposal 4.2. the vote on A30 including A4, A20 and A21. It is the amendment of the school committee, which regulates the forestry kindergarten. Sleeping nursery can't be a forest kindergarten. Definition of a forest kindergarten. But only if the G15 proposal is not approved. The Guarantee Committee recommends this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u79	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 225 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 225, from the presence of 174 in favour of 172, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u80	We will now vote on the lines of proposals relating to the admission procedures in secondary schools. A lot of amendments have also been tabled to this, and we will now deal with them. First of all, we will vote on the proposal H1 through H15, which is the amendment by Mr Novotný. It proposes to introduce mandatory uniform entrance exams for all secondary schools. The position of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u81	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 226 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 226 from 174 Members present for 27 against 97. The motion was not accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u82	We will now vote on proposal 5.1. It is a vote on A10, A9, A12, A13, A14, A15; only if H10 is not approved. These are amendments adopted by the Education Committee, regulating uniform admission procedures for sports grammar schools. This proposal is recommended by the Guarantee Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u83	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 227 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 227, from the presence of 174 in favour of 158, versus 1. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u84	We will now vote on proposal 5.2. Because, in the last vote, we did not approve Amendment H10, we must now vote on the proposal A11. Only if the H10 is not approved is the amendment of the school committee again, it is proposed to increase the weight of the single entrance exam from one half to 60 percent. The guarantee committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u85	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 228 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 228, from 174 present for 151, against 161. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u86	The last of this group of votes is the vote on proposal C7. We are voting again because H10 has not been approved. This is an amendment by Mrs Semelová, who proposes setting the limit for success by the school director for individual entrance examinations by a special regulation of the Ministry of Education. The guarantee committee does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u87	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 229 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 229, from the present 175 for 35, against 130. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u88	We will deal with the issue of young chemists in the resolution of the school committee in A16. Mr Fiedler's amendment under the L4 was also tabled on the same issue. First of all, we will vote on the A16 proposal, the resolution of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, which governs so-called. the issue of young chemists, i.e. allow laboratory work in schools. The Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u89	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 230, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 230, from 175 Members present for 174, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u90	Now I'm just looking at the legislation, and now we're not voting on 6.1 because we voted on A16, so we're voting on the seventh vote. In the next vote, we will deal with my amendments. These are amendments B1, B2 and B3. They concern pre-school education and I propose that kindergartens can receive children from two years from 2020. This brings us to the heads of kindergartens, which often accept these children. So the committee's position is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u91	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 231, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 231, from 175 in favour of 87, against 59. The motion was not accepted. Colleague Sklenák reporting. Madam rapporteur, please allow the chairman of the club... Please, co-worker Sklenák. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u92	Thank you for the floor. I voted in favour of this proposal when I raised my hand, it was visible, I have a cross at the exit from the vote, I hereby question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u93	Okay. Yes, there is a discrepancy between the vote and the electronic record. We will decide to accept the objection in the vote number 232, which I have launched. I'm asking who's in favour of accepting the objection. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 232, from the present 175 for 164, against 1. Objection received. We will therefore repeat the vote B1, B2, B3. I'll check you all out, please log in with your I.D. cards. After the adoption of the objection, we will again decide on this proposal. Voting number 233, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 233, from 172 present for 88, against 66. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u94	So, another vote. Furthermore, we will vote on one more of my amendments B4. This is an extension of the six-year term of office of the school's principal in the event of release for the performance of the public office. It's about the fact that when the Director takes up a public office after two years, it's like he's interrupted the six-year period when he gets back, he's gonna count the next few years. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u95	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 234, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 234, from 175 in favour of 89, against 58. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u96	We would now continue to vote on the amendments that govern the so-called 'no'. Czech schools without borders. These are amendments I1 to I15, which are from my colleague Laudat. The position of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u97	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 235 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 235, from 175 in favour of 51, against 105. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u98	The next vote is on Amendment I20, which is again a colleague of Mr Laudát. It proposes a new text of § 2 para. 2 school law. A new definition of the general objectives of education. The guarantee committee does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u99	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 236 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 236, from the present 175 for 54, against 103. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u100	The next vote is again on the amendment of Mr Laudát. It's an I26. It is an amendment which is amended in § 21 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (d). It concerns greater involvement of school councils. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u101	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 237 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 237, from the presence of 176 for 135, against 1. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u102	We now have another set of amendments on which we will vote and concern the abolition of compulsory pre-school education, individual education in kindergarten. First, we would vote on I21, I22, I23, I24 and I25, i.e. Mr Laudát proposes the abolition of compulsory pre-school education. I must point out that I21 and I22 are identical to the D1 proposals, which is why we can no longer vote on D5. Also, if I22 is approved, no vote can be taken on A5, A6, C1, C2, C3, C4, J1, J2 and E1. If I24 is voted, the D6 cannot be voted. If the I25 is voted, the D7 cannot be voted. The position of the guarantee committee is disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u103	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 238 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 238 from 178, for 46, against 110. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u104	We will now vote on the proposal because we have not approved the I22, we must now vote on the A5 and A6 only if the I22 is not approved. This is a resolution of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. It proposes the abolition of the obsolvency clause. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u105	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 239. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 239 of the person present 178, for 135, against 1. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u106	Another proposal 12.3., where we will vote on D8 and D9. These are the amendments made by my colleague Karamazov. It proposes an adjustment to the transitional provisions and effectiveness. It has something to do with D5 and D7. The position of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u107	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 240. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 240, from the present 177, for 35, against 130. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u108	We are now voting on proposals C2, C3, C4. Only if I22 is not approved. This is an amendment to my colleague Semelová's proposal. It proposes the abolition of individual education in kindergartens. The guarantee committee does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u109	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 241. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 241, from 178, for 32, against 139. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u110	Another proposal, because we did not approve in the previous C4 vote, we must now vote on E1. This is an amendment by Mrs Nohavová, who proposes the possibility of abolishing individual education in the event that she fails to demonstrate the required level of education for its verification. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u111	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 242. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 242, from 178, for 37, against 126. The motion was not accepted. Next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u112	Because we didn't approve E1, we have to vote on J1 and J2. This amendment is tabled by Mr Kudela. It proposes a change in the date of notification of individual education plus the possibility of abolishing individual education if the verification fails to demonstrate the required level of education. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u113	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 243. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 243, from 179, for 35, against 121. Nor has this proposal been adopted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u114	Now we have dealt with a series of amendments to pre-school education. For the next, we will be voting on the amendment by fellow Member Semelová. Proposals C5 and C6 which propose to abolish individual education at the first level of primary school. The guarantee committee does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u115	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 244. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 244, from 178, for 33, against 136. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u116	In the next vote, we will vote on the proposal by Mrs Semelová to amend Section 123 para. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme. C8 and C9. The position of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u117	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 245. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 245, from 179, for 33, against 134. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u118	Another suggestion. We will now vote on the amendment by Mrs Semelová, in which she proposes an amendment to Act No. 82/215 Coll., which amends the school law, and proposes to postpone its effectiveness, thus delaying the effectiveness of joint education. We will therefore propose a vote on the C10. The guarantee committee does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u119	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 246 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 246, from the presence of 174, for 72, against 65. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u120	Other proposals, amendments, this is a group of amendments concerning mathematics graduation. First of all, we will vote on proposals D1, D2, D3 and D4, which are the amendments made by my colleague Karamazov. It proposes the introduction of a general compulsory mathematics graduation graduated in years for specific fields. Amendment D1 is identical to H16, so we can no longer vote on H16. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u121	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 247 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 247, from 179, for 41, against 87. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u122	Since we have not approved the amendment of Karamazov's colleague D1 through D4, we will now vote on F1 and F2, which are the amendments made by Mrs Dobešová. He proposes restrictions on the fields in which he will graduate from mathematics, plus the establishment of these fields in the annex to the law. The position of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u123	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting 248, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 248 of 179 for 29 against 115. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u124	Since amendments D1 and F1 and F2 have not been approved, we must vote on H17 and H18, which are the amendments by Mr Novotný. It's a mandatory math degree again for everyone. I would like to point out that these amendments H17 and H18 are factually related to D1, which is identical to H16. This means that it should be adopted by the House of the same decision as for D1. It means we're back here deciding on the math degree. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u125	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 249 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the voting order number 249 of 180 present for 40, against 101. The motion was not accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u126	We will now vote on the K1 proposal by Mr Hovorka. It is the application of the support measures defined in paragraphs 6 to 8 and the newly supplemented paragraph 12 should take account of the possibility of fulfilling a specific school. The guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u127	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 250, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 250 of 180 present for 90, against 81. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u128	The next vote is the vote on the proposal by Mr Fiedler L1 and Mr L3. It is about the development of areas for vocational schools in the regions. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u129	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 251 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 251 of 180 present for 75, against 89. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u130	Furthermore, we will vote on the amendment L2 by Mr Fiedler, who proposes to abolish the National Education Council, to dismiss it by law, but the National Council will be equally appointed. The opinion of our committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u131	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 252 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 252 of 180 present for 140, against 31. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u132	We will also vote on the amendment of Mr Fichtner M1, who proposes the possibility of withdrawing the school director without giving any reason. Opinion of the Committee not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u133	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 253 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 253 of 180 present for 2, against 172. The motion was not accepted. Now I ask if we have exhausted all the amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u134	According to the proposed procedure and the way I checked and checked with legislation, we voted all the amendments and we had nothing but to vote on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u135	All those who tabled amendments agree with the rapporteur's statement? [[Agreed.]] That's right. All proposals were therefore voted on. We will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. Before that, I'm gonna check you all out and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. The motion for a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies reads: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on preschool, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education, as amended, and Act No. 200/1990 Coll., on offenses as amended, according to the House's Press 611, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." [[Education law]] I've started voting number 254 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 254 of 176 in favour of 96 in respect of 68. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you, Madam Secretary, thank you to the rapporteur, and I end at paragraph 160. Given the time, I have no choice but to announce a lunch break, starting at 3:30 p.m. and starting at 14:03 p.m. with the meeting of the Organizing Committee. And before we interrupt the negotiations, I will read the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Schwarzenberg apologizes from 11.30 to 19.00, Mr Plzák from 15.30 to the end of the day, Mr Vácha from 9 March to 11 March 2016 due to illness and from 13 to 14.00 by Mrs Kristýna Zelienková. Thank you and interrupt the meeting for the lunch break and the meeting of the Organizing Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-006-160.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. Before we continue to discuss the other fixed points, I will first read the apologies that have arrived at me. Today, Mrs Jana Lorencová apologises from 15.30 to 19 pm due to illness, further apologizing from today's meeting to the end of the sitting day for health reasons, Mrs Strnadlová. Today, at 16 o'clock, Mrs Nina Nováková apologizes for personal reasons. Nine o'clock. 3. 3:30 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. 3. Mrs Zuzana Šánová apologizes until the end of the day. And then on Wednesday, 9:00 p.m. 3. Apologizes to Mr Běhounek from 15 o'clock to the end of the day for reasons of work. The first fixed point is:
