ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-012-037.u1	37. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with proof of the origin of property /house print 504/ - first reading I'll ask the Minister to take the floor at the rapporteur's desk. At the same time, I ask Mr Václav Votava to take up his intelligence report, i.e. intelligence roles, and took up a position at the newsstand table. I'll repeat what we had before the vote to interrupt item 37. We have dealt with this press for the last time on 2 October 2015 at the 31st meeting, the item was interrupted in the general debate, and it is next in the general debate by Mrs Věra Kovářová, who I ask to take the floor. Mr Martin Plíšek, who is next registered, will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-012-037.u2	Dear colleagues, it is clear to me that anyone who is critical of this law can be dragged like a rotten politician who does it because he has something to hide. I understand that, but for the record, I am not hiding anything personally; I published all my assets last year in connection with the debate with the Head of the President's Office on the issue of conflict between his words and actions. And I have to admit, this transparency gives me freedom. But back to the point. First of all, in the case of this proposal, I wonder what this law does so much better than functional police and tax administration. Shouldn't we focus on making these institutions work? Is it the way of creating other instruments and other instruments that are medially attractive, but that also ends their advantages? You know, when I mentioned the contradiction of words and actions, I would like to remind you that one of the most ardent supporters of property confessions was once a candidate for the Chamber of Deputies in 2013 by Chancellor Mynář. And we all know what's going on with him. And I'm thinking, isn't the current government just as hypocritical? Doesn't he give us a proposal that he doesn't even mean? Isn't it just cheap political points? And shouldn't it focus instead on strengthening the tax administration and the police? I've already found the answer, and I'd like you to think about it too, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-012-037.u3	Thank you, Madame. Please Mr Martin Plíšek and Mr Jiří Dolejš will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-012-037.u4	Mr President, dear colleagues, I have already spoken at first reading, but it has been many months since the first reading began, and at that time I have not yet received an answer to my fundamental reservations about this proposal, so let me sum up some of my fundamental reservations. I would like to start by calling this proposal a law that is being put forward, it is a set of amendments to laws, it is not a new law, it is not a completely unnecessary proposal that I can imagine being presented sometime during the 1990s, when there really were large transfers of property, when various nomenclature communist cadres could soon become rich and become modern-day capitalists. Well, then I imagine there was a point in the debate about the law on the proof of the origin of the property. Now it's 2016 and I don't think this proposal is aimed at cheaters and property speculators at all, but it bothers or can harass honest taxpayers, it can support indictment, and it can make honest taxpayers dirty suspects as they acquire their property. These are fundamental substantive and political reservations, but I also have constitutional and legal reservations on this proposal. It has also served me with the opinion of the Legislative Council of the Government, which has challenged as an unconstitutional provision that, in addition to the assessment of the tax, after someone has committed any infringement under this law, the taxpayer may receive an additional 50% penalty and, if he does not cooperate with the tax administration, that penalty may be up to 100 per cent. [[19.00 hours]] This is what the Government's Legislative Council has called unconstitutional. By the way, a 100% penalty, and there are also findings of the Constitutional Court, can be described as liquidation. Also, the pre-slip deadlines that break within this bill from three to ten years from the point of view of documenting certain data mainly for citizens who are not entrepreneurs and do not have the obligation to retain accounting documents in this way, I find it very questionable. The Government's Legislative Council also called this constitutionally unconstitutional, because the deadlines are not clearly set and this retroactivity goes beyond what can be objectively demanded of non-business citizens. The fact that the burden of proof is entirely passed on to the taxpayer in this law and he has to prove that he has not committed something instead of proving to him that he has committed something illegal, I consider it very strange and inappropriate, and the principle that the burden of proof is passed entirely on to the taxpayer is unique in this and I must say that the State should prove to someone an infringement, not that it should be the other way around. Likewise, the Government's Legislative Council stated that the increase in the penalty rate for an offence of false declaration of property from one to three years is completely inappropriate and disproportionate. This may be a mistake in this statement, perhaps unintentionally, and there is an increase in this penalty rate for up to three years. Again, the proposal that the Legislative Council of the Government has challenged. The seven-million-dollar difference between income and the increase in assets. The government was debating various amounts - 10 million, when the taxpayer would have to document the origin of the property. Finally, the government coalition agreed to 7 million. In my view, a clear determination of this amount can lead to speculative handling of property for those who would like to avoid this law. So they just optimize their property conditions so they don't fit into the $7 million. So I think that's a very clever thing to say. Why should someone who has this difference, 6.5 million, be beyond the attention of tax administrations, law enforcement agencies, etc.? Finally, I would add that I am a supporter of the general property statements of politicians, public officials, and we can support this within the framework of the conflict of interest law, but in my view this law completely misses the effect. As I mentioned earlier, he can support envy, intrigue, when a neighbor will discuss whether or not he has acquired his property honestly. And to fraudsters who speculatively brought their property abroad, or those who run their property and have it so-called hidden in the company, which many of these con artists do, and speculators do not fall at all. In summary, in the light of the reservations of the Legislative Council of the Government, I repeat my proposal, which I have already tabled here at first reading, that the proposal should be rejected at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-012-037.u5	Thank you. Your proposal is registered and will be voted on. Mr Dolejš, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-012-037.u6	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear colleagues, allow me to look at the proposal from the other side than the two previous speakers, by the optics of a simple comparison - comparison. As you may have noticed, the government has a property return in its programming declaration, i.e. after two years of operation, it has reached the first reading of this law. We'd like to say "it's possible, but it works" because it takes a little bit and there are reservations about both content, direction and so on. But the facts are that this proposal was submitted in June 2015 and for various more urgent tasks, we did not reach the first reading until October, it was interrupted, we have January. But haven't you forgotten, colleagues, that there has been a long-term proposal from an MP who is dealing with a similar matter, but a little bit more thoroughly? Already in June 2014, the press 235 was submitted to this legislature, which was also interrupted at first reading and waiting for discussion. This press is from our workshop, which is why I'm talking about it, which is probably logical. But it is not that it is from our workshop, it is that it is the result of certain long-term debates that have been in this state, essentially twenty years long, that this government has taken a neutral position on it, and unfortunately in February 2015, it was interrupted with the statement that we will wait for the activity of the government, which is supposed to be better, more complex, better, as I would take it, because, after all, the apparatus of our entire executive is able to do demanding work. But I am not sure if government officials have done this work in a bad political assignment or at least half-heartedly. So we're talking about the comparison. If we compare, so when we look at the government proposal, let's sing the hosanna, after two years at last, it shows above all that it is not a tool that can be applied across the board. Basically, it stands on the initiative of the tax administration, looking for, seeking, and when it finds out, it will turn to potential sinners. [[19.10 hours]] And so if we don't proceed with the logic of criminal proceedings, because we could get involved in this because, of course, the sinner is already in the regime, that he is not obliged to torture himself and commit self-incrimination and provide the tax administration with evidence that would testify against a possible crime and against himself. So half-heartedness, it's based on the institution's initiative, it's not flat. Our proposal, which is here, I think, about the fifth or sixth row of our workshop, the tenth overall in these intensities in twenty years, is flat. It creates an instrument that is completely new, which has an impact across the board and basically determines only because of the effectiveness of the person's mandatory management, i.e. the physical person up to 10 million - we are a little more benevolent there, not 7 but 10 million, and at the same time, so that we do not miss out on the money elsewhere, so there is also provisions on legal entities. And since a legal person is something, there's a 30-million-dollar limit. And in all, from other legal systems and other inspirations, it can be demonstrated that it exists, that it is conformary with a democratic legal system, so there is a penalty tax, which - if you cheat, in parentheses you may even steal, so we will deliver it to you 100 percent, so return the unjustly acquired. Nothing special, but I dare say more effective. That's the point. The aim of my performance is to warn - now we are at first reading. We're glad the government took that half-assed step, that we could talk about it. But I'm warning you that there's 235 press here and that it's not out of line, that it's not that the communists slept badly or that they're jealous of someone's money and that they're creating fiction that whoever has money is a suspect in advance. No. There was a similar law here under Masarykův's first republic. And approved it again - wonder - the post-November Czech government virtually. Czech Parliament, I believe it was the Czech Minister of Finance who presented it. Only the law was not fulfilled because the Federation was disbanded. We wished the Slovaks their separate future and the law was not fulfilled and was not effectively abolished until 1995. So what communist fiction? The Communists didn't rule for Masaryk or Havel. And then, of course, in similar intensities designed by the laws here were also for Prime Minister Miloš Zeman, who says that not for this law, but generally for that solution is. bodejť wouldn't be if, under his rule, his finance ministers presented this twice. If memory doesn't deceive me, they were finance ministers Mertlík and today a member of the Bank Board, formerly Minister Jiří Rusnok. In these intensities. So I think it's worth the debate. Let us look at this issue and think about the fact that this press is here in parallel with this government press. I know you can't forget it's from our workshop, but at least think of it as an alternative solution that has its logic and which can be more effective. My colleague Plíšek here talked about the fact that it was too late, that in the 1990s there was a great outage, that different people were simply enriched, and even - and that is a little bit of his political design - that the nomenclature cadres were especially enriched. I'm not sure there's any way to design the big outage. I think there's a lot of good guys who came to the money. But what is important is that, while some things are already limited, these things are systematically treated and that, in a gradual way, we limit to these clever ones what they were so benevolently allowed to do in the 1990s. And I don't want to go on, then those governments were different, but unfortunately, in a way, they were the same. So that's the point. That's the point. I remind you, colleagues. It's just a general reminder. At first reading, I am not breaking into the design of this law. I'm just reminding you that it's designed differently. That I consider it a useful step, but only half. So I'm hoping we can at least put our law in the opposition window at the next meeting, or maybe on this one, who knows? And I believe that those of you who are now in favor of property returns will at least appreciate that it is designed in a usable way so that it doesn't kill at first reading. That's my point. That's why I talked today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-012-037.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And if no one else signs up for the debate, I am done with the debate. I'll ask the Minister if he's interested in the final word. It's not like that. The rapporteur? Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-012-037.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, not so much for my own law, I would rather sum up the debate. We started discussing first reading 19. The 6th of last year, if I'm not mistaken. Then it was interrupted to 2. 10th, so after six months, maybe we'll end the first reading. I want to say that a motion for rejection has been tabled, so we should vote on that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-012-037.u9	Yes, it is. It was presented by MPs Plíšek, Vilímec and Benda. So that's the first vote we have to take. I'm gonna call my co-workers from the lobby one more time. I'm gonna check you all out. A new registration, please. In the meantime, excuses have come. Mr Zlatuška apologizes from 19 a.m. to the end of the day and Mr Heger apologizes in the same period. So we can vote. I remind you, it's a motion to dismiss this law. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 132, registered is 124, for 13, against 105. This proposal has not been adopted. We're going to deal with the draft of the commandment. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order this proposal to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. I'll ask if there's another proposal for a guarantee committee. It's not like that. So we're going to vote. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees that the Committee on Budgets should be the guarantee committee. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 133, registered is 128, for 126, against no one. This proposal was adopted. There were no further proposals from the Organising Committee. Mr. Mr. Plíšek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-012-037.u10	In view of what I have said and with reference to the opinion of the Legislative Council of the Government, I propose that this proposal be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-012-037.u11	Yes. For the record, I would like to say that Mr Benda spoke about this in the debate. He avizovat for a similar proposal. So we're going to vote on the commandment to the Constitutional Legal Committee. Initiating vote. I'm asking who agrees to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 134, registered is 130, for 128, against no one. This proposal has been adopted and I therefore note that we have dealt with the commandment of this press, and I conclude this point. [[19.20 hours]] Let's continue with point number
