ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u1	The combined debate on paragraphs 1 and 2 / House prints 513 and 514/ I have two applications with priority rights. First Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš and after him chairman of the club ČSSD Roman Sklenák. Please, Minister, you have the floor. And before I give it to you, I will ask the House for peace. [[Big noise in the whole hall]] Thank you, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u2	Good morning, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I wish you all a good day. Today we have a jubilee, tenth discussion on electronic sales records. Since the beginning of the discussion of this bill, 236 days have passed. New Horizons probe passing Pluto, default Greece on debt to the International Monetary Fund and the outbreak of the Dieselgate affair. These are some of the events that occurred in the meantime. Most of us also celebrated another birthday, but with the electronic sales log we didn't move much. We've been reading it here for 38 hours and 23 hours as part of a third reading. Nevertheless, I would like to thank all Members, for whom we have been discussing here for almost three quarters of a year whether we want to introduce a standard tool for combating the grey economy in the Czech Republic, i.e. the record of sales, which in some form works in most countries of the European Union. I would like to thank Mr Laudát, Mr Kalousek, Mr Fial, Mr Stanjur, Mr Kučer, Mr Holečka, Mrs Langšádlová and so on. I apologize to those I haven't remembered. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Because we knew from the beginning that this law was good and beneficial, we knew it was the most effective -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u3	Minister, I'm sorry to interrupt, but the noise level is really high. Please don't continue until the House is quiet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u4	- we knew that this was the most effective tool to reconcile the business environment, which is also the cheapest for entrepreneurs, unlike registration cash registers with Mr Kalousek's support. But thanks to dozens of your performances, interviews, TV debates, twitter notes and newspaper articles, which you have devoted with extraordinary care and enthusiasm, we are now absolutely certain that this is a much better tool than we originally thought. . [[Big noise in the whole hall]] I would therefore ask you once again to leave aside labelling and party ideologies. Electronic sales log is not a right-wing or left-wing project. It is a project that will help to straighten the business environment in the Czech economy while helping to collect taxes effectively...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u5	Yes, I'm waiting to see if the House will keep it down, or if I have to ring the bell, or if I have to warn individual Members not to disturb... I'll ask the Chancellor not to disturb the House's meeting.... [[Reaction on the right side of the hall]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u6	... while helping to effectively collect taxes so as to create a margin for reducing tax rates which, I think, would welcome most of those present if not everyone, as I observed yesterday. Unfortunately, the previous discussion has already continued in the current trend. Once again, the arguments and comments in question have decreased and personal attacks and speeches unrelated to the topic have increased. I will therefore respond only briefly to the substantive questions and comments that have been raised during the previous discussion. It is unfortunate that Mrs Adamová, Mr Vácha and Mr Fiedler, have reiterated here, not really, that the Ministry of Finance is only dealing with minor tax evasion. And I quote, "We're gonna chase the little ones, and we're gonna let the big ones go, we're not gonna notice them because we're scared of them." So much for the quote. First of all, I would point out that the Financial and Customs Administration are certainly not afraid to collect taxes, and it is not true that we are dealing with minor leaks. On the contrary, we are fundamentally fighting against large carousel fraud, whether it is reverse charge, tax Cobra, or control reports. We deal very intensively with the illegal optimization and profiting of multinational corporations. Financial administration workers have been focusing on this area over the past two years with an activity that has definitely not been there in the past. I recommend asking tax experts on the market how important the activity of Financial Administration in this area is to be seen. The Customs Administration then deals with large leakages in excise taxes, records historical achievements by detecting illegal cigarette production and so on. Please refer to the January 8th log so that I do not have to repeat myself here. At the same time, it is not true that only small entrepreneurs and businessmen will be involved in the registration. I've said that many times here, but I'm happy to repeat it, because understanding the facts is important. The record of sales will be for all who accept cash payments. Again, big companies, medium companies, small businesses, businessmen, all who accept cash payments. And what is said over and over again, for example, by the representative of the Association of Entrepreneurs and Managers, that large companies will have an exception or a more favourable regime, is indeed an awkward lie. [[9.10 hours]] A clear proof of this is the very wording of the bill submitted to this House, and there is nothing like that in it and there has never been. I can confirm to Mr Karamaz, through Madam President, that the record of sales will lead to an equalisation of the business environment precisely because it will not distinguish between a large and a small entrepreneur and they will both have the same conditions. A further comment on the Members who called the tradesmen thieves and the biggest frauds in this state last time. Plus, you're trying to say that I said something like that, and you're just spreading fear and hate. I've never said anything like that and I'm not gonna say anything like that. I respect businessmen and all entrepreneurs, because they are in the vast majority people who have done something in life. Mr Vácha said that we are constantly changing the estimate of the electronic record of sales for public budgets. It's not true. And I'm going to repeat and I'm happy to repeat that we're talking about 12.5 billion. CZK annually after the start of the first two stages of sales records and an amount of 18 billion. CZK annually after the full start of the whole project. And out of 18 billion. $4 billion. for municipalities and cities, 1.5 billion. for the regions and the remainder 12,5 billion. to the state budget. Mrs Putnová and Mr Svoboda argued here that the record of sales should not apply to doctors due to a high percentage of doctors in their pre-retirement and retirement age. They pointed out that 20 percent of doctors have no electronic equipment at all, and that there is a risk that they would rather close down than buy and learn to work with them. I think that the Member and the Member are doing doctors a bear's service because doctors are basically scientists, educated and intelligent people and claim not to be able to tap into a simple facility is by reducing the level of their education and intelligence. I mean, we certainly don't want to distinguish between a senior running a pub and a senior physician. The important thing is that thanks to the open technical solution of sales records, the market will be able to offer both groups such equipment that they can control. I understand that someone can be terrified when we talk about tablets, and there's definitely a group of doctors who think of tablets as something completely different than electronic recording equipment, but even seniors can easily control a calculator. And abroad, where records already work, there are simpler devices that look just like a calculator. I'll enter the amount and that's it. For example, CZK 800 for tick encephalitis vaccination, confirmed, sent. The device itself prints the receipt and everything is done before the patient wears his coat. And I believe that everyone can do it - doctors, nurses, market vendors, cafe service. Last time, Mr Skalický tried to weaken as we came to the expected tax return, based on estimates of the grey economy. Unfortunately, he compared incomparable quantities here - the VAT gap, the so-called VAT gap, cannot be compared to the estimate of the grey economy. Moreover, one is the amount of the tax and the other, at best, is the amount of the tax base. I had here on 8 January a second excursion into the theory of the grey economy and I mentioned clearly incorrect conclusions based on the SAO report. If the Member is interested, I can arrange for a detailed presentation of the whole analysis of my colleagues from the Ministry of Finance's expert apparatus. Here I just want to repeat that with the electronic sales log we are heading to 170 billion. Hidden income per year. Yes, 170 billion. CZK will be sold for cash, services or goods, and these sales are withheld. This is the figure of the Czech Statistical Office. I would like to thank Mr Skalický, through Madam President, for a practical question on the record of sales for growers of vegetables and winemakers. I would like to confirm to the honourable Member that the law is not discriminatory and the obligation to register will apply to the entrepreneurs mentioned here last time, whether they are doing business as traders or as farmers by selling from the yard or on the markets. The difference will only be in which stage their registration obligation will arise. That is the point of the rapporteur's amendment. In conclusion, let us show in practice the sense of electronic record of sales, which is constantly demagogically questioned here. Consider the example of two entrepreneurs. Let's call them Mr. X and Mr. Y. Both gentlemen have small business with consumer economies in the centre of a smaller city, and suppose they offer a completely identical kettle in both stores, a solid product that each family uses. [[Electronics]] Mr. X offers a kettle for sale for CZK 1210, of which CZK 1000 goes into its income and CZK 210 goes into the budget of the state, municipalities and regions in the form of VAT. In simplifying, let us consider that Mr. X's kettle costs are 700 CZK, so he has CZK 300 profit and will pay CZK 45 income tax from it. Net profit is CZK 255. Mr. Y is going about this differently. The proceeds from the sale of the kettle are not going anywhere. Mr. Y's tax revenue is zero. Let us keep in mind that both cooking pots are exactly the same and that both gentlemen are sympathetic businessmen and people certainly like to go shopping with them. Let's go back to Mr. X's net profit, which is CZK 255. Suppose Mr. y isn't a greedy man, and he'll have the same amount of profit. So let's figure out how much Mr. Y can offer the kettle to the customers. By simple calculation we will arrive at an amount of 955 CZK. Same kettle once for CZK 1210, once for CZK 955. Difference in price of CZK 255, i.e. almost a quarter price. So what happens? The first customer buys a kettle with Mr. Y, the second also, the third one buys a TV, a computer, a microwave, etc. A month goes by, two, a year, and Mr. X closes his shop and leaves to register at the Labor Office. Tonight he explains to his wife and children that he failed, that he failed. The number of entrepreneurs in the city has fallen, the number of entrepreneurs has remained the same. Mr. X is no fiction. He's a real businessman who just didn't have a chance to fight unfair competition. And we're giving him that chance. I would like to ask you to close your eyes for a moment and imagine a real person behind this story. Imagine a real businessman. And then open your eyes and vote finally for the bill on electronic records of sales. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u7	Thank you, Minister. Now, to the microphone of the head of the club ČSSD Roman Sklenák. I'll ask my colleagues in the left side of the corner not to yell at each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, the Chamber of Deputies agreed on 29 January that it would vote on the draft laws under discussion today at 11 o'clock. The reaction of the right-wing opposition to this House's decision was that our procedure is shameless, illegal, incompatible with democracy, that we want to silence the opposition, that we are raping the Rules of Procedure, that we are violating the Constitution, that we despise the rule of law, and other strong words that have led me, too, to comment on the process of adopting this law. Social democracy has never questioned parliamentary obstruction as a legitimate tool of the opposition, which it can clearly and strongly tell the general public that it does not agree with a specific law adopted. But in order for obstruction not to become destruction, it has to end after some time. In my opinion, successful obstruction can only be obstruction just before the end of the House's term of office, when a law simply fails to pass. In this parliamentary term, however, we are witnessing a permanent obstruction of ODS and TOP 09, the culmination of which is the obstruction of the electronic record of sales law, which, in my opinion, is already bordering on the question of parliamentary democracy. Therefore, the decision of government Members to vote on the law today, regardless of the state of the current debate, cannot be viewed in isolation and must be considered in the context, not only in the context of the negotiation of the e-booking of sales law. [[9.20 hours]] The story, which ends today, began already on 16 July 2014 at 13.30 pm, when Miroslav Kalousek and Zbyněk Stanjura announced their proposals for major changes to the Service Act at the press conference, and President Kalousek announces that if these proposals are not accepted by a government majority, the law will not be adopted. It will not be adopted on the basis of the joint action of the ODS and TOP 09. President Stanjura subsequently reports how they want to achieve their goal. I quote: our aim is not to delay the vote from 20 July to 27 July. We have decided not to allow a third reading other than in the legal deadlines, i.e. Wednesday and Friday between 9:00 and 2:00 p.m., and until we reach an agreement, we will not allow a third reading vote. If they decide to go into confrontation, we guarantee that the law will simply not be passed. President Kalousek answers the question of Daniel Stach, how you will achieve this: There is a debate at the third reading. And if we want to repeat our comments and discuss them thoroughly enough, it will ring at 14.00 and cannot vote. And now, please note, President Kalousek continues: We will not do this in any other way. If we were undemocracy, we would use this tool to block tax laws, any other laws, we wouldn't do that. And then President Stanjura says: we are quite young, quite efficient, quite determined, so the vote can only take place after the debate is concluded, and this simply does not happen until the government coalition agrees with us and accepts our four comments. And President Kalousek adds: We will keep this tactic calmly until the end of the parliamentary term. That was then, at the beginning of the parliamentary term. We have prepared a lot of laws, wanted them to be quickly discussed and approved, we wanted to avoid, of course, the House's blocking right at the beginning of the parliamentary term, and that is why basically we agreed to this blackmail, the TOP 09 conditions and the ODS we accepted and approved the Service Act in a much different form than the original majority of Members of the Chamber of Deputies wanted. That law was passed in a form other than the will of the majority of the Members of this Chamber of Deputies. And, of course, we believed in the promises that the same procedure would never happen again, but out of caution we wanted to repeal the paragraph which allows this procedure when the amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies was discussed. I quote Mr Komárek, who said the following from this place on 23 September 2014: I think he is absurd and the legislator certainly did not mean that two parliamentary clubs, say 20 Members, could completely and forever block the approval of laws at third reading. The Rules of Procedure are written in such a way that no law in the history of the Czech Republic could ever be passed if the opposition insisted on that right. Therefore, I propose in § 54 para. 4 to release the last sentence - the House cannot vote on the proposal to include a third reading on other days of discussion if two parliamentary clubs object to it. So much for Mr. Komárek. However, President Kalousek immediately responds to this speech in these words. And please listen carefully: thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is appropriate that what Stanjura and I have said to fellow Members from other Members' clubs once again when we have concluded the historic agreement on the Service Act today. We said that we understood the instrument we had chosen as absolutely exceptional and that we only used it when we felt that the democratic governance of the country was in real danger. There's no way we're gonna use it for ordinary laws, even if we disagree with them a thousand times. And again, I assure you, we're ready to act like one. We have said that we will only revive this instrument in one single case if someone tries, in particular, to limit the scope and rights of the opposition in the Rules of Procedure Act. Mr Kalousek continues: I repeat again that these words are valid. Maybe Minister Dienstbier will tell me I'm a blackmailer again, but I think it's fair to say things in advance. If you try this, we'll block the legislative process. Please note, President Kalousek ends. Of course, he meant blocking the legislative process of adopting the amendment to the Rules of Procedure Act. And again, because we wanted to adopt the amendment to the Rules of Procedure because it contained a number of necessary changes, we agreed to this blackmail and Mr Komárek did not finally sign up for his amendment in a detailed debate. And as it turned out, we all know. It didn't take long and ODS and TOP 09, despite their repeated promises to this process, reached again. On 10 July 2015, at the first reading of the EET Act, President Kalousek gives a motion to reject this law and accompany it with the words: It is possible, it is even likely that this proposal will not be approved, the motion to reject it, and that you will push it through to the second reading. It is possible, it is even likely that we will not convince you at second reading and that you will push it through to the third reading. But we'll never allow you to pass the law. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask what would follow if, this time too, we succumbed to these unprecedented obstructions and insisted that the law be voted on today. I would say that it would be very likely that, in the foreseeable future, these obstructions would be used again as a proven tool to block the will of the government's majority. And how many times after that? Once? Twice? Three times? In this context, I would like another quote, this time Mr Marek Benda, who said from this point on the remark by Minister Jurečka, that the authors of the Rules of Procedure did not count on the debate to be held at the third reading. Marek Benda says: Yes, it is true that it was not expected that there would be a debate at third reading. But practice has changed that, and the debate has been going on since 1997. Since 1997, there has been a common debate at third reading. Well, practice changed that. I am not a lawyer, but I believe that one of the methods of interpreting legislation is so-called. reduction of ad absurdum, i.e. that if we take any presumption of interpretation of the law to the extreme and we see that the result would be completely absurd, then such an assumption cannot stand. Therefore, when the ODS and TOP 09 Members say that the Rules of Procedure Act gives them the opportunity to proceed repeatedly in this way in the third reading, I will allow myself, in the spirit of this method, to speculate on what would follow if we continued to accept this interpretation. Apparently, some other press conference where we would be told that ODS and TOP 09 have fundamental reservations about any other law, or maybe even a few other laws, and that by blocking the third reading, the government will not allow the majority to accept these laws. Therefore, in the spirit of the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure under the ODS and TOP 09, we would once again state that the Rules of Procedure unfortunately allow them and we cannot accept the laws marked, even if it is the will of the majority arising from democratic parliamentary elections. [[9.30 hours]] And what if one day ODS and TOP 09 knew that they had enough of all the laws of Sobotkův's government and that they would no longer allow us to pass any law in this way? That they're gonna block everything on Wednesdays and Fridays from 9:00 to 2:00 p.m.? According to ODS and TOP 09, we should say yes, there's nothing we can do, are they right to do that? That's ridiculous. I think that the House, not only in this case, should return to the original good practice, where there is no long debate at the third reading, only corrections to legislative technical, grammar or written errors are proposed, or proposals are made for repeating second reading. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want the coalition majority to respect the opposition, the opposition must also respect the coalition majority and cannot abuse its quite extensive rights under the Rules of Procedure. From this point of view, I believe that it is the majority's right in this Chamber of Deputies to vote after more than 20 hours of debate in the third reading on the law. And from the point of view of protecting the principle of parliamentary democracy, I am even convinced that this is not only her right but also her duty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u9	Thank you. I'm recording three factual points here. First, I ask Mr Kalousek for a microphone, Mr Fiala will be prepared, then Mr Fiedler will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u10	Thank you. In the sense of the Rules of Procedure, I respond to my previous speaker, who, I don't know, shocked you, but in any case shocked me by saying that the Civil Service Act was passed contrary to the will of most of this House. I live to this day, and if I look at the record, I am rightly living in the fact that it has been approved by an overwhelming majority across the political spectrum. Ladies and gentlemen, for my sake, would you be so kind as to raise your hand to the person who voted against your will? I'm looking into the ranks of government co... Neither. You see, through Madam President Sklenák, you were wrong again. Yes, when we promised that this instrument would only be used exceptionally, we, I confess, had little imagination. Also, all your tax laws that we consider harmful, a number of other laws that we consider to be even more harmful, are going through absolutely without any problems. We could not imagine that you would prepare a bill of liquidation for a particular sector of the economy, that you would prepare a law of liquidation for economic freedom, and that you would prepare a law which, as a result, is a real tunnel for a taxpayer who still has thefts prepared behind his back from the award of free-hand contracts. We couldn't imagine that, and that's why we used this special instrument for the second time. It's just a rhetorical question I dare ask. It's about one single law. How many dozens of laws do you block for those who have the same legislative initiative as the government, i.e. Members, how many have you been blocking for more than a year? It's not obstruction that you're not putting it on the show at all? I had a tear last night when you returned to my bill after a year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u11	Mr. Ambassador... [[Messenger. - Thank you.]] Thank you. Your time is up. Mr. Petr Fiala's microphone, please. Mr Karel Fiedler and then Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip will be prepared, all factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u12	Thank you. President Sklenák spoke about the interpretation of the law and some legislation ad absurdum. But his examples of opposition behaviour and possible behaviour of the opposition were conducted ad absurdum. So let's just say a few facts or a few facts. One. In the event of a threat of obstruction with the Service Act, we wanted to achieve one thing - that the government would even treat us. It was a law that concerns the functioning of this state, and which, of course, will affect other governments with its impact, no matter how they are composed. I didn't understand that the fact that you're dealing with us, you see it as blackmail, but I'm glad it finally happened. And now for these obstructions. We're meeting here at the third reading and having a little over 20 hours. That's about three working shifts. Well, that's not the dramatic situation you're putting on. And frankly, what are we blocking here? The House is normally running, other laws are adopted. Anytime you pass the law at third reading, it's about him. And we're just blocking, or we're debating at an emergency meeting on one law. And as for your example ad absurdum, that the right-wing opposition could block everything and that we would say, "We don't like the laws of Sobotkův's government, so we will vote against everyone." So, President Sklenák through Madam President, look at how the Civil Democratic Party voted on the proposals submitted by the government coalition: 60 per cent of these proposals have been supported. So don't tell me anything about the unconstructive opposition that wants to block the noble intentions of the government. This concerns one law, we do it for several hours, and there is no drama in the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u13	Thank you. Mr. Fiedler's microphone, please. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u14	Thank you for the floor. I would use this time to load a little legislative technical adjustment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u15	It is a factual point and you cannot read legislative technical modifications in it. I'm sorry. You can only respond to the course or give a procedural proposal. But you can't load legislation. I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u16	Okay. I will respond to the previous speaker, what was said here a moment ago. As I noticed, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš here reminded me that I said here that it wasn't true, that it wasn't just small and large. Of course, I meant it a little differently. I mean, we're dealing with certain things with this law, and I keep saying it's okay that taxes are supposed to be paid. I haven't changed my mind, and I stand by it. And we could have discussed other laws that would have brought other revenues into the state budget. For example, our parliamentary club suggested that we consider whether the 42 billion paid to support the solar system must be paid in this volume. And I would quote here from January 22nd, it was after 9:00 p.m., the tape that Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš said here. Quote. "I refuted the rumor that large businesses would have conditions other than businessmen." And in particular, the second sentence. "I explained that the registration is intended for all entrepreneurs under the same conditions." ejhle, next thing we know, some of them should have lower VAT on draft beer, just some of the businessmen who run restaurants. Those who have a different activity will not have this tax relief for the sale of their products, for the growth of their sales. And that is one of the reasons why I have reservations about this law, even though I agree with the basic idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u17	Thank you for respecting the time limit and please, with the actual Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u18	Thank you. Madam President, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I, in response to my colleague Kalousek, for all Members of the Chamber of Deputies, not for him. I don't like manipulative speeches, and this one was very manipulative. Do not let this influence you, because the Constitutional Court examines not only the text of the law, but the intention of the legislature. And the intention of the legislature in determining the voting days at third reading was nothing more than to focus the attention of Members on the various amendments and their decisions. In this regard, it was not the intention of the legislator - it does not matter whether I voted in favour or against at the time, the amendment to the Rules of Procedure, I spoke very critically to it because I was able to think of some of its consequences ad absurdum. And in this regard, it is not true that it would sometimes be the intention of the legislature of the Czech Republic, the Czech National Council, the Chamber of Deputies after 1995 to intend, in any text of its Rules of Procedure, that the House be intolerable. On the contrary, its intention was the legislature if it happened that after more than 120 days The House of Deputies will not be a quorum, it needs to dissolve.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u19	Thank you. Now with the de facto Vice-President of the House Petr Gazdík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, by your means, Madam President, I would like to say a few words to my honourable colleague Roman Sklenák. I'd understand his contribution if someone else said it. If one of the new colleagues who came to the Chamber of Deputies would say so. However, it has been us who have experienced much worse obstruction since social democracy. We who experienced David Rath at two o'clock at night! When he was down here, and every ten minutes, he was making a procedural motion for a 24-hour interruption. 12, nine o'clock in the morning! We who have experienced this not only by one law, but by many! Let it be a tax package, whether it be a construction savings, be it a church restitution. I'm sorry, colleague, but your performance was very hypocritical. If anyone else said it, I'd take it. From you, I'm sorry, no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u21	Thank you and now please Mr Stanjura, duly signed up for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u22	So I have to change what I have to say and respond to the words of both President Sklenák and Vice-President Filip. There is no way to use a classic from the communist era of Viktor Černomyrdin: "You thought well and it turned out as always." Here we have heard repeatedly how the Social Democrats are whining about what the Rules of Procedure look like. But Roman Sklenák forgot to say that the hours allocated for third reading were not in the Rules of Procedure from the start. And his government pushed it because it seemed advantageous to her. The Government of the CSSD, the KDU-ČSL and the Union of Freedom. None of the ODS members then voted for this allocation of hours at third reading. Why did they do that? 'Cause they had a tight majority, and he wanted that hundred-one to be certain. That was the legislator's intention. I don't know if that's right. This was nothing in the interest of negotiating and quality laws. It was about them knowing when to get their tight majority. I understand. But I guess you meant well, and it turned out the way it always was. We didn't vote for it, we're just using it. If you hadn't pushed it yourself - and I once said here who was actively voting for everything back then. My colleague Sklenák wasn't here. But Prime Minister Sobotka, the Foreign Minister Zaorálek, who passed the law, voted in favour of it by the Minister of Industry Mládek, voted in favour of it by today's president of the SAO, who often instructs us how we misunderstand those laws, Kala. Mr Rafaj voted in favour of this today's head of the Competition Protection Office. And that's how I could name it. So if you don't like it, call a party meeting and talk it out there! Leave us alone, we never wanted it and never supported it! Using those options is logical. Roman Sklenák says we've been acting for over 20 hours. Petr Gazdík was just talking about it. It might be 30 hours or 28 with today. When we were in November 2011, not at the end of the parliamentary term, but after about a year or so, we experienced social democracy obstruction, we were here 130 hours! And six hours was a break! One hour break every day. We acted every day for 23 hours! Every day! Not now, we've got 20 hours in three months. Twenty-three o'clock, eight tech break, nine o'clock we started. This is where the Social Democrats came in and said, "The third shift is coming in!" We're on duty from two to six! And we have had to keep 67 Members here all the time so that your hero David Rath's proposals could be put to the vote, which you now claim was never a Social Democrat! We voted here every ten minutes. And I remember the sadness of some of my colleagues in social democracy in the foyer: I am poor, eldest MP, and I am on duty at 4:00 a.m.! How do I come up with that when the young ones are sleeping right now? Then why are you whining? And we didn't come to this and we listened 50 times to the position of some construction savings bank, 48 times the position of the Constitutional Court. We heard the Lebanese verses. Legendary "rating" and many other things. And We did not approach it, and We patiently endured 120 or 130 hours in six days and six nights. And President Sklenák says he has to protect democracy, and after 20 hours, that's enough. Because he decided. Minister Babiš has concluded that everything has been heard. How does he know? Forty-six logged in. He already knows everything's been said. And the way we act, at least he can answer. I'm kind of enjoying the debate. We ask questions every Friday, Minister Babiš doesn't answer. In a week, Friday he'll come and read the answers. Well, he needs the coworkers to write it that week! We saw it again today. He answered questions from last Friday or from the last hearing. That means we'll just never know the answers to today's questions, because this Friday or next Friday, EET just won't be. I am so glad Roman Sklenák made us such PR and quoted, for example, my words from July 2014. It's true that I've been a year and a little older since then, but I still feel rather young, quite determined. And I'm still gonna perform when someone's knowingly breaking the law. I don't know why you're not patient. Notice, not a word about the EET from the President of the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club. Not a single argument. He was playing historian, quoting us from our press conferences. Which is okay, I'm applying for those words, I'm not ashamed of those words. And immediately he was a prognostic. And for colleagues who haven't been here in the past period, I'll remind you how the meeting went every Tuesday. The meeting started at 2:00. Then two speakers of the opposition began to speak: Bohuslav Sobotka and Lubomír Zaorálek. Sometimes they talked for three hours on a bad day. When they had a normal day, four hours. And when they started it, especially today's foreign minister when he started, he said to us here from two to seven, "Do you understand? Do you understand? We can't discuss this! The same guys, if we don't have three laws approved at 2:30, after half an hour they say, "What's going on? Organized obstruction! Yesterday was the opposition window. And I'm not complaining, I said that yesterday with a smile from the presidents of coalition clubs. First, there was a government bill in the opposition window, which the prognostic Roman Sklenák said would be quick - to speak primarily for about two hours of government MPs! All right, I didn't mind at all. But you know how these predictions come true. And they weren't opposition MPs. And I might as well say, "That was obstruction!" It's only at five o'clock because after about five months we got five hours, of which two hours were discussed by government MPs, and I don't mind. [[unintelligible]] The law was important, it's important, it's not simple, the Health Services Act - and it's good. But you're still in a hurry. And then you keep fixing it. Control report, we'll fix it! Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow! He's not here yet. The beer will be discounted from July 1st. February - It's not here yet. And I could go on like this. I could talk about how you paid 16 times for the purchased land, as we said it was wrong for us to then together - and I point out together, I appreciate that we fixed it, both government and opposition MEPs. This is where I warned you were destroying travel agents. The secretary said not to say in 28 days in the Senate: "You're right. And the same amendment came back from the Senate in the version you rejected earlier. And that way, I could set one example after another. I'm not doing it. I'll leave the time for the Members to sign up. I don't know if it's mine now, I'm acting with priority rights or registration, I'm giving up mine so my colleagues can perform. Because we have about 70 minutes before the illegal vote. But my dear fellow Roman Sklenák, through Madam President, do not call the violation of the law a protection of democracy. That's really not appropriate. And you know as well as I do that this is the first time in the history of the Czech Parliament when you are violently ending the debate. Whether you were in opposition or in government, whether we were in opposition or in government, it never happened. It's the first time today. And I know how you're going to applaud, how you've arranged it. Totally useless. And what's the worst part. The worst thing is when it happens for the first time. I could predict exactly the same as President Sklenák and say, "What if it's three weeks from now?" Because they're gonna find out somebody's gonna come back and say Brusel wants it by April, and we're not gonna make it! That is how we must end the debate so that Brussels officials do not make amends for us. And the third time. And the fourth time. And the fifth time. [[9.50 hours]] So I don't know if we're supposed to be impressed by President Sklenák. I don't like people whining and complaining about what they've put themselves through. I think that's wrong. And if it's a mistake, I didn't hear your speech from here: we changed the Rules of Procedure purposefully because we could use it, and it was a mistake. It turns out we did it all wrong today. No. That's all we hear: it would have to be changed. Where is the responsibility of those who have designed and enforced it? Read the records I found from 2004, when I was not here, of course, what my colleagues from ODS said, who warned against this provision. And you approved it, now I don't know if you applauded it, but Lubomír Zaorálek, as the leader of the changes, was undoubtedly satisfied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u23	Thank you and please now with the priority right of Mr Klaška's rapporteur. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u24	Thank you for the floor. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, let me read the necessary legislative technical corrections in agreement with Parliament's legislation. One issue is, the first legislative technical correction, that in § 12 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (i) the word "come" shall be deleted; Reason: Correction of the structure of the sentence taking into account the text of the other letters of paragraph 3. The word is simply redundant. Two. In Article 25, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The amount to be reported in column (a) supplementing the word 'or'. Reason: Grammatical adaptation of the provisions to make it more obvious that either the letters apply. (a) or (b). For the next one. I would like to adopt legislative technical amendments from the 29th meeting of the Guarantee Budget Committee of 14. The 10th of last year. This is an annulment of Section 38. Let me read the whole thing: the Committee on Budgets recommends that the Chamber of Deputies agree to the following legislative technical adaptations: Section 38 is deleted. The remaining § 39 shall be referred to as § 38. Recitals: Paragraph 38 states that the draft law has been notified to the European Commission as a tax and financial measure pursuant to Directive No 13 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 98/34/EC. However, according to the Communication from the European Commission, the notification 2015/0422/CZ does not constitute a measure of a fiscal or financial nature. The draft law cannot, by its nature, be regarded as a technical regulation within the meaning of this Directive, i.e. the bill will not be notified at all. For this reason, it is recommended that the constitutional provisions of Section 38 on notification be deleted from the draft law. Furthermore, allow me to load, as I agreed with my colleague, Fiedler, his legislative technical regulation, in case he doesn't get the floor. It is a legislative technical correction to Amendment E3, i.e. in the text of the amendment it was wrongly stated that it concerns § 37 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (d). Right, it's the writing. (b) as in points (b) and (c) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; (d) Paragraph 37 (b) is replaced by the following: 1 does not contain at all. This is therefore an obvious typo. Furthermore, allow me also to read a legislative technical specification of the amendment B2 by Mr Vilímec, if it does not reach it as well. In the proposed amendment, the words "the effectiveness of this law by the end of the 6th calendar month' correctly read "the 4th calendar month from the date of entry into force of this law until the end of the 6th calendar month'. This is a clarification of the quotation of the text in question submitted by the amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u25	Thank you. I'm recording two factual points. With the first to the microphone of Mr Hájek, Mr Stanjura after him, and then I have the priority right of Mr Laudát. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u26	Madam President, ministers, colleagues, and colleagues, I have listened with interest both to Mr Sklenák and to colleagues here from the opposition. It kind of reminded me of the situation of basic service soldiers, when the first year that soldier was getting bullied and the second year he was getting it back. So this is where we experienced the memories of Mr. Stanjura bullying them, and now we're finally the good guys and we can give it back to them. I've already said here once in my speech that I mind the division of Members and Envoys. I am therefore here under the Rules of Procedure, i.e. the ordinary Member, i.e. That starry infantry or pawn, and then we have 14 or 7 times 2 plus our ministers, those are the lucky ones that can come anywhere. Please, there are 170 normals here, so let's try to go back, and we have the strength of 170 normals, we have the strength to quote the words of Marek Benda here in '97. So let's try to keep those 170 strictly to § 95 para. 2 in which it is said: In the third reading, a debate is held in which only correction of legislative technical errors, grammatical errors, errors written, etc. can be proposed. Please, let's try. Let's try it, and if ours here with priority rights are going to abuse it or the other pawns of us are going to abuse it, let's try to keep them democratically quiet by checking out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u27	Thank you, and now please, with Mr Stanjura in fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u28	So, according to the Rules of Procedure, I would like to respond to the rapporteur's speech. This morning we heard whining about how long it's been here, three quarters of a year, we're all almost a year older, and today - have you heard the amount of legislative technical modifications? That's a well-prepared law. It took them three quarters of a year to figure out more and more mistakes. And then I just want to ask you a question, Madam Vice-President. I have not yet experienced the rapporteur correcting the amendments made by individual Members. I haven't experienced that, and I don't think he has the right. Rapporteur. In my opinion, only the person who made the proposal can load such a legislatively technical one. So, if it was for the committee, I understand that, to the law as a text, I also understand that, as regards the amendments made by Mr Klaška, I understand that too, but to read legislative technical amendments to other Members' amendments, I have not yet experienced that here, and I think that is not possible. But I'm not sure. I just haven't seen this place in five years. It's another novelty on this law hearing. And the rapporteur can answer for himself the quality of the law when amendments are loaded only on 10 February. And one last thing - one question, be specific, to the Minister of Finance. Minister of Finance, we have been having a long-term debate about how the economy is growing, how much tax collection increases autonomously thanks to the growth of the economy. I would like your opinion, because renowned economists say that 1% of GDP is about 13 billion taxes in the state budget, that's not my number. The Minister of Finance is regularly questioning this, he has the right to do so, but I would like to hear the answer from the Minister of Finance on how much tax collection will increase autonomously in growth of 1% of GDP. Why do I say that? As the economy is growing, tax revenues are growing, and I can already hear Minister Babiš say: EET is increasing revenue and no tax revenue is growing thanks to economic growth. [[The President draws attention to the time]] So I'd like that number in a week, I don't need to know today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u29	Your time. Otherwise, the rapporteur's procedure is in order, it is consulted with legislation. You can, of course, get a written statement. Thank you, and now please, with Mr Plzák's de facto Member. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u30	Thank you, Madam President. I really have a point of fact. We had a legislative technical department working about six months ago, what can actually be read or what can be discussed in that third reading, and this also concerned the changes to legislative technical errors. We can approve with the mistakes, I have this impression, and they can be repaired additionally, even after approval.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u31	Thank you. Please give Mr Laudát's priority right. I'll ask my colleagues not to shout at each other, or - hold on, Mr. Ambassador. I ask my colleague Stanjura and Mr Plzák, you are too loud and interrupting. Thank you. Please, you have the floor, Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u32	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. To this dispute. If, in a second reading in a detailed debate, someone reads amendments, often very fundamental in the case of government laws, I do not know when other times they should be discussed in connection with the original presentation rather than at the third reading. There's no other way. I do not know why, we have discussed this here several times, some colleagues from the ANO movement are returning to this issue. There's just no other way. It's nice in quotes when a colleague here, Hájek, talks about democratic silence. I would say that what you do today is not a democratic silence. I warn about this step, because most of you didn't build socialism, I say most, you don't remember what it was, how overwhelming the majority went to the elections, part out of fear, part voluntarily, because of it had something, and only individuals fought against totalitarianism. They were despised, closed, reported, often poisonous, often tragic, unionized. The fact that you have a lot of power today given to you by the voters in the elections because they have succumbed to the deception that you will settle something, you will fix something, is a perfectly standard problem of democracy. I am sorry that social democracy is involved in this together with KDU-ČSL. I'm not surprised about Mr. Babiš's business project. You two parties, which you call democratic, your predecessors who claim the same values, failed in 1948, failed before 1989, and today you are returning to it. I have noted that if some of the social democracies, for example, do not have the stomach for it, then the President of the KSČM is willing to come and help. Here in front of me and on the left, there is a national front, and I quite understand that Mr Babiš is attacking the TOP 09 in particular, because we will never participate in this national front. We did not participate, we really insist on our values. [[Cheer up in the left side of the hall.]] We have them anchored in our statutes and we are trying to function according to them. Why did we choose this law? It will cause unnecessary spending for entrepreneurs. I'm talking about the inspection report - the deadline for the first submission will be February 25. It's really absurd, maybe it's a coincidence, maybe it's not a coincidence, but on February 25, this report will cause a lot of spending for entrepreneurs, a pretty decent business for tax advisors. Larger companies will have to hire additional workers into their economic departments - really great support for the competitiveness of the Czech economy. But since it concerns people who have a relatively large turnover after all, I believe that they will survive until the next elections, albeit with great unnecessary costs. Quite quickly, this measure can be repealed. That's why we didn't move to block the control report, but we did move to block the electronic sales log. In the countryside, if a small businessman, innkeeper, winemaker and others are exposed to your law and they simply have no more money, or they leave because of the deterioration of their services and cancels their business, closes, goes to work elsewhere, so there is very little chance that even if we cancel this Balkan nonsense, they will not return to their business. They won't have hundreds of thousands or millions to recoup their objects to meet the required technical parameters currently or in advance, and so on and so on. When Minister Mládek said before the election that businessmen are parasites, after all, I took it as a certain waiver directed towards a certain category of people who, according to the Social Democrats, should pay more in taxes than they pay. However, today it is quite obvious that it was not a misrepresentation that you three government parties, KDU-ČSL, ČSSD and the movement YES 2011 will be better, I say in terms of who, it was not really a phrase, but it is completely systemic. If I were referring here to 1948, we would return even deeper. Who attacked businessmen, that is, people who want to take care of themselves, who want to raise their children in some entrepreneurial freedom, want to have their successor? This group of inhabitants was already under attack between the world wars in neighbouring Germany and subsequently further. This group was one of the archenemy after 1948 and today it becomes again. Ladies and gentlemen, with our 26 mandates given to the TOP 09 in the last elections to the Chamber of Deputies, we have defended the tradesmen here, those of you who want to make a living alone, not waiting for the social benefits we could. Today, the coalition parties of the ČSSD, KDU-ČSL and the ANO movement have decided to violently violate the laws. We have done everything we can, and now it is your turn to defend yourselves civilly within the framework of democracy and freedom that was established here in 1989. We did everything we could. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u33	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr Klaška, rapporteur. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u34	Thank you again for the floor. I apologise, colleagues, because we are in the joint debate of press 513 and 514, so allow me to read one more legislative technical regulation concerning the subsequent press 514, namely: In Part Four, Article 5, the words "on 1 January 2016" shall be replaced by the words "on the first day of the calendar month following the date of its publication." Reason: necessary adjustment in the light of the date already stated on 1 January 2016 as it could not be corrected even if the fiction was applied in accordance with § 3 para. 3 Act on the Collection of Laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u35	Thank you. Now, please, with Mr Laudát's de facto opinion. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u36	Just enough to make sure our analysts don't cry. We had to calculate how many social democracies there were. And it was obstruction, it wasn't about factual arguments, we heard Lebanese fairy tales here, reading history, the person ended up with Hus, so it cost you in one reading 59 hours. This to supplement, for statistics of the ANO movement. And you prevented the stolen property from being returned - a reminder.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u37	Thank you. And now I beg you, Mr Jandák, in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u38	Thank you, Madam President. I didn't want to perform, but I wanted to get off immediately when my colleague František spoke. You vědět, František, through the President, you've been operating here again with the national front. I understand. Your chairman was in it. We don't yet, so maybe we want to try. That's one thing. [[10.10 hours]] Oh, please, let's not do this. Even your speech, which isn't exactly dynamic, makes you feel like you're sick of it. Just like we did with church restitutions - and that was the robbery of the century! This is bullshit against it. And we lost. So you're gonna lose, too. Give it a chance to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u39	Thank you. In fact, please address Mr Laudát's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u40	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I insist there's a national front here. And it's not just today. I've noticed in the past few weeks who's always filling in. So there's a new national front. Contemporary national front, no, I don't think so. As far as someone's robbing the century says that stolen property is being returned, that's just a matter of opinion. Of course, we are fundamentally different from the idea of social democracy, which is quite obvious, so I am claiming that I voted in favour of the law. I was his great supporter, the protagonist. I did everything I could to make it happen. And tonight at those pubs, those schools you're trying to ban or restrict, so I'm gonna tell you-- go tell these people it was wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u41	Thank you. And now, with Mr Tejc in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u42	I dare to respond to my previous speaker. We don't have to tell anyone that church restitutions were wrong. That's what all people see. And unfortunately, we will bear the consequences for the future. Anyway, just a comment on the numbers and the clock. It was mentioned that at that time the opposition was given the opportunity to discuss all these proposals for a few dozen hours, I think 58 or 59, and it is compared to the 30 hours. I would like to say that these numbers must, of course, be compared to the number of laws involved. Now we're talking about one law and one that's connected to it. At that time we had the opportunity to speak every two or ten minutes to 13 completely different laws, to 13 bills that were almost unrelated, from the General Inspection of Security Corps to social and health laws. So you really didn't give us much space. And we certainly can't compare the debate that is here today with the debate that was in the past, because for the number of minutes we could have talked to each law definitely less than you could have discussed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u43	Thank you. And now, please, to Mr. Holeček's microphone. And that is a proper application for a debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u44	Madam President, my Lord, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking Minister Babiš for the citation potential he is naming us here. When a man's last name comes up - they say, as long as he's spoken of, he's breathing until then. But there's one thing I'd like to draw his attention to. When he says "Mr. Holeček said" to realize we're sitting here with holeček's two. And one of his crew. That means every time you, Minister, please say Holeček and you talk about me, put Radim there. Thank you. I would like to say towards Vítek Jandák through, we have the strength and arguments we have prepared for many hours, so please let us speak. We have a nation to tell you. Because I spoke 14 days ago, and the ten minutes I have to perform are very few, we forget what was said, so I will briefly sum up the three most important things that we have been discussing on the Privacy Sub-Committee, which I called up immediately after that amazing BDO study appeared, which looked at EET from the point of view of data security. There was considerable participation in the subcommittee, e.g. There were seven people from the finance minister, one person came from the interior, but even the eight officials agreed that the study for small money, as the Minister spoke of it, was useless, full of gross mistakes and nonsense, would probably be overworked. Then it was discovered that the study would be more likely to be a new one from other taxpayers' money. The study was kept secret for a long time, and it didn't bring any positives. The study is pitifully outdated, and what is worse, at this point it does not have a follower according to which the technical specifications of the great Croatian miracle that is being presented to us could be set up. The danger I've heard about in the last few days, and it's that EET is connected to pyramid companies in Croatia, we'll hear about it today from our colleague Bendl, if he gets his turn, and it's according to my point that we should be very focused on. Next thing you know, Homeland didn't even know about the study. That's where the Home Office official said he learned about the EET study from the media. This is totally unacceptable to me. And I say - please agree with you in the coalition, say some information among yourselves, because this is really one of the biggest data collections in history, if not the largest. And the third thing from the subcommittee was that called guests who have access to hackers are close to them, they told us that if the encryption mentioned in the study was used, the hackers would go there for information as usual to the grocery store. Last time I said the first two reasons why EET is unacceptable in terms of privacy. The first thing was a material purpose, which was not even incorporated into this law. The second reason, and there I was exactly interrupted last time, was that the explanatory note said that the proposed legislation had no impact on the standard of privacy and personal data protection. Remember, I was interrupted precisely when I wanted to tell you what the purpose of DPIA is - this is to describe and evaluate the existing and intended processing of personal data. This procedure is used to evaluate the effects of the proposed solution in relation to privacy and personal data protection. If personal data has to be processed, it is necessary to specify its basic parameters - why, the specific purpose, category of personal data processed, the public processing, its parts or outputs from the processing established by the proposed regulation and the time limits for the storage of such personal data. That wasn't done at all. [[Noise from the press gallery.]] I'm gonna skip to keep you from doing that, and I'm gonna tell you about the third sin, what I call a hammer for businessmen, and that's RIA itself. At first glance, it is clear that the details are completely overloaded. It doesn't even explain the basics. Therefore, the Office for the Protection of Personal Data absolutely correctly required its complete revision. The petitioner considered several variations in the scope of this bad law. Although we are writing 2016 at this time, the statistical data used for this law are dated 2012. How is this possible? That wasn't newer data? The petitioner does not justify the outdatedness of information anywhere. Although according to ČSÚ in the Czech Republic it is 1.3 mil. Entrepreneurs, according to the petitioner, the law is to cover only 600 thousand. subjects. So more than 50 percent of entrepreneurs have no sales? RIA lacks an assessment of alternatives on basic issues such as: the obligation to take over the receipt, which is dealt with in Section 17. The fourth weakness of this stalking law is legislative technical support. The Office for Personal Data Protection mentioned that it is necessary to substantially revise the outline in a legislative technical way, e.g. § 1 to 3, they do not belong to the curriculum at all, they have no business there, because they do not set any authorizations or obligations. It's just information. Problem number five. This legislative son of a bitch - and today it was said: so we'll accept it as a bastard, we can fix it while driving, we can fix the car, right, we'll leave without brakes, and we'll install some on the way... This son of a bitch denies the principle of division of power. It is quite impossible for the Ministry of Finance to be authorized to make exceptions to the law. This is contrary to the principles of division of power as already laid down in Art. Article 2 (1) (a) This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 of the Charter of Rights and Freedoms. State power can only be exercised in cases and within the limits laid down by law in such a way as to determine the law. Here's the law -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u45	Ambassador, I'm so sorry to interrupt you, but I'm going to ask the press to lower their voice a little bit because they're disturbing us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u46	The law doesn't set any limits here. The same applies to other sales data sent pursuant to § 12 para. 3. While the explanatory memorandum specifies that it is provisionally envisaged to send basic information about the payer, such as name, surname, or name, registered office of the firm, the transaction in progress, in particular time, volume of payment. Furthermore, it is assumed that the data sent to the tax administrator will include a response period, i.e. it will be possible to update this data within each recorded sales. But this is to be directly part of the normative text. That's where he's missing. The sixth kick in the bill is authentication data. The legislation is strict. The reason message defines that login data exist. And a certificate. The question is why the taxpayer should apply for authentication data. Why aren't they allocated to him automatically? All of this had to be dealt with in substance by the law, and he didn't. On the contrary, it is problematic that the outline is overloaded with details in that the application is sent to an address intended for the record of sales. How long before he gets that kind of data? Who's gonna decide that? And stuff like that. It is necessary to draw attention to the fact that the petitioner has a completely incorrect concept of identification and authentication. While identification is identification, that is to say determination of which particular entity it is, authentication is verification of the class of authorisation, that is, whether a particular entity may do something without necessarily being identified. For example, the knowledge of the PIN on the bank card does not mean that the person may withdraw the money even if he is not the owner of the card. It is also a question that has come up, why the petitioner did not include the record of sales in the eGovernment system, where it is offered directly as an IAFO identification, which would be supplemented by a certificate. The relationship with the I.C.I.A. is not clear at all. The reason report on the I.D. is completely silent. The reasoning in Section 10 merely describes the normative text without really trying to justify it. Not fully clarified is the relation to the payer's security code according to § 12, which is defined as a unique coding algorithm of the payer. It is a generated label, which as output of specific inputs in the form of data on registered sales and the taxpayer who made it. It only identifies the payer who issued the receipt and identifies the transaction with the receipt issued. There are no further details of this in the explanatory memorandum or in the implementing rules. It is therefore more than doubtful that it would be published on the receipt, the unique code as stated in Section 13. The fiscal identification code. While in Section 13 No. 2 (c) FIK is vaguely defined as a unique identifier.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u47	Mr. Ambassador, your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u48	Yes, you must put a muzzle on us. But I think people see it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u49	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the next in line, Mr Zahradník, I shall make a few apologies. Within 10 hours, Mr Šarapatka apologizes for medical reasons today. From today's meeting and tomorrow, for reasons of work, Minister Marksová apologizes. And Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek apologizes for today's negotiations between 9.45 and 10.45. And now, I beg you, Mr. Zahradník's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u50	Madam President, thank you. I suggest we return this law to second reading. And now, ladies and gentlemen, let me continue to argue why I have made this proposal. Last time I finished my speech here by reminding my interpelation, which I was going to Mr. Finance Minister Babiš on 12 March last year. At the time, I asked him, in addition to my question, whether the government had a processed analysis of the impact of the introduction of electronic records on tradesmen. And I asked how many more businessmen couldn't bear the cost of applying the sales log, how many of them would end up in business. The minister answered me this way - I quote from the tape screen: "This is a debate with the deaf. That's hard. If anyone talks about businessmen all the time, talk about businessmen. It doesn't really involve any businessmen. Why are you talking about businessmen? These are restaurants and retail. Stone shops, by the way. Also, Vietnamec, who, as we know, do not pay taxes. So why are you talking about businessmen? It doesn't concern them at all. What are you talking about?" So many quotes from the screen recording of the interpelatory day on 12 March last year. For the record, I tell the Minister that a businessman, or also a self-employed person, is a person who, in contrast to the employees, is self-employed in his name and his own responsibility, so-called. business, for the purpose of making a profit. The business is therefore a continuous business activity operated separately under Act No. 455/1991 Coll., i.e. called. Trade law. The business is a continuous activity - this is said by Section 2 of the same Act - operated on its own behalf on its own responsibility in order to obtain profit and under the conditions laid down by this Act. I wanted to see Minister Babiš, but in the meantime, he left... [[The minister who is leaving at the door of the hall remains to listen to the speaker.]] No, he didn't. That's good. Maybe he's confusing it with the term craftsman. I don't know why he answered that question. Of course, it concerns businessmen. It's about businessmen 100%. They're very worried about it. One of them approached me, it is an information map centre operator in one South Bohemia city, which therefore runs in its name and is saddened by the attempt to liquidate its business with just crazy bureaucracy around sales records. He already has three types of VAT at the cashier's cashier, thanks to the product range he sells in the map information centre, plus the price tags, to the point of view. So a total of four different kinds of records. And now he can't imagine that when a tour of strangers comes and buys a few postcards, some souvenirs, postcards of stamps, whether it's even possible to make a mistake and register everything correctly. I know you're going to say that these are small things and that they shouldn't worry about it, but maybe the sanctions, which the law says they order when they fail to perform their duties, can eliminate such a small businessman. They're asking why you don't focus on the big fish, the big tax evasion, but I'm sure that's gonna happen. Finally, at their meeting just before Christmas last year on December 21, these tourism businessmen, the association in the Tourism Council, adopted a resolution that says that the introduction of electronic sales records, i.e. EET in that shortcut, will eliminate small entrepreneurs, the diversity of crafts and the market, will harm tourism in the regions. So this is the resolution of the entire South Bohemian Tourism Council. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let me mention a few more words about the law itself. I have here, on the one hand, a comment that concerns sales in the simplified scheme, in particular the authorisation for sales in the simplified scheme to be registered. These are the sales that would make the business itself more difficult, the smooth and economical performance of the activity from which the sales flow, as the law says, by regular single individual records and sending them to a given registration point. [[10.30 hours]] Here, it's allowed by the tax administrator. It shall decide within 15 days on the application if the entrepreneur, the trader, submits a request for a simplified scheme. If it decides negatively, the new application is possible after 60 days at the earliest and the taxpayer must state reasons other than those contained in the rejected application. So, in truth, I don't understand it very well. I still see the innkeeper after 12 o'clock at the dance party, who has to cash in each beer individually, or maybe the guests with the expense, with the ticket run away, and he'll have to, if he doesn't allow a simplified record, give each guest a note risking that there might be some personal enemy of his somewhere who'll turn him in to the tax administrator, and he'll sanction him with the dramatic sanctions. And I also have the extent of the data sent. The range is huge. There is a dispute as to whether or not it can bring any data for a potential competitor. In any case, when one of Mr. Minister's advisors, one of Mr. Michl's economists, asked on TV whether it was really safe to send and register data, this minister's advisor replied that he would not put his hand in the fire for it. I think it says in itself that it's not entirely clear whether the data, however simple it is, can be of any benefit to anyone and cannot be removed from the record. So there are many reasons. A whole range of business associations sum up those reasons nicely, it states, but as you can see, there is no will on your part to hear them. So the conclusion of my measured time is coming. I would like to mention one more thing, perhaps, very seriously. It's actually an ashtray Wednesday today, so it's starting a serious season of the year. I'd just like to remind you, colleagues from the government coalition, that you're not lucky to have laws whose acronym, the abbreviation is somehow given by the letter E. This is ET or EET, I don't know. It's called the EET, in the name of the law, as if the electronics had fallen out. And then there's the law that we were discussing here a year and a few months ago, and that's the EIA law. You pushed it too, you ran through most of the time. You have also not been told, even though we have warned you what can bring, what can be done by the EIA law that can bring negative to our state. And all of a sudden, we see that the constructions of large transport units are essentially blocked. We just need to go back to the EIA before 2004, we need to renegotiate the power you gave the activists. It's so huge that every new hearing can be blocked. This law also had a shortcut, it was symbolized in front of us here and in front of the public by the abbreviation EIA, i.e. the beginning of the big E. Here it is also. So beware, my friends, that in a year we will be dealing with similar fatal consequences of your current law, and you will say as you say with the EIA: We didn't know it, we didn't realize it, they tricked us when they told us something. So that it doesn't happen the same thing that's happening now with the EIA Act and your EET Act. Don't vote for him, reject him. And again, Madam Vice-President - Ah, the President already - I propose a return to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u51	Yes, thank you. Please, Mr Bendl, Mrs Jana Černochová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u52	Good day, colleagues, colleagues, Mr. absent finance minister, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me, too, to actually continue with the 20 minutes that have been defined for me by the coalition to discuss. First of all, I would like to join the motion to reject this law, and then I will try to enter into those ten minutes, although I really consider it a very undemocratic measure, and I am sorry that something like this is happening in the Czech Parliament, because I have not built here once. I have always spoken to the point and will not be able to respond, if necessary, to the questions I will ask the petitioner of this bill. In my first part, I pointed out above all that the greatest danger I see in manipulation and in the ability to leak data, in their protection, because at the moment when such sensitive data, and it has nothing to do with EET, but also with the inspection report, they will get out, and after leaking information from the Security Council of the State, etc., according to my deep conviction, it is a serious matter and it is not possible to completely bagate it. I'm going to tell the companies, the traders that can get out. And after what happens in the Czech Republic with data leaks, no one can convince me that we can protect ourselves sufficiently. What do I see as the greatest danger? The minister here said last time it wouldn't cost who would provide the so-called. cash registers and hardware, or software, that they only enter interfaces and private companies start delivering hardware and software, that means that private companies will be those who will own and will eventually have data available for the future that will relate to those who will be obliged to be involved in this system. They can have them, and I want to be assured by the Minister of Finance and the Government that it just won't happen. And what I'm going to do. Because I have gotten to information that hasn't happened here yet, and therefore there couldn't have been a proper discussion with them, even though the Minister of Finance said he'd heard almost everything. I've been given information on an attempt to link the EET's state system to business. I have here a presentation of Lyonness, which is official, and I can make it available to everyone if you want to take a look at it. Lyonness has huge problems with the law. It is a cashback company that has huge problems with the law against its creditors not only here in the Czech Republic, but also in Austria, Switzerland and other countries and outside the EU. And this company is going to make money to introduce an EET in the Czech Republic. They have prepared Croatian number one as a hardware supplier and want to obtain approximately 100,000 Czech traders in the first wave. And if you ask how? Simply - offer them dumping for connection to the Lyonness system. That means they're going to start, I'm going to say parasite on what the state is going to produce for its needs, or say they're going to agree, so they're going to start making money off the individual, I'm going to say, companies that fall into that system. According to my information, Lyonness will offer traders involvement in its own cashback at different levels and will offer them various discounts and will do business on the EET system. What's the danger? In the Czech Republic, but also Switzerland, there are known cases of people who put considerable savings into Lyons, millions of crowns in order. Today, the amount will be at a level greater than 1.7 billion. Crowns. Between 2008 and 2012, Lyonness declared a turnover of 1.2 billion. The Swiss francs and this same amount were also announced as the Lyons turnover of 2014. In June he closed sponsorship with Rapid Vienna, began to sell almost 9,000. limited cards, which will assign an undefined amount of fan's, which will form an undetectable passive income. Rapid's got nine miles to go. The euro to be actually earned by their fans by joining the system. The system of club communication continues and Slavie Praha joined the system today in football and Slovan Bratislava - hockey... And the same model goes on. [[10.40 hours]] I consider this to be... I note that a number of people have already had successful courts, since this company has not given them back what has been put in. There are a lot of people here who are complaining about how this company works, and I consider it extremely dangerous if we are building a system here to deal with sensitive data about, I'll say, the insides of every company so there's a chance someone else will get to them. The State should be able to monitor such data and not expose entrepreneurs and business public to the risk of being operated with their data in the future if they order it. When I said here last time that someone might feel at home in Bohemia, that if they concentrate the data, they would catch the small fish so easily. But it can happen that even our big fish will be small to those European or world players and someone will buy us all with all the data that is here. Then we'll be in vain looking for someone from the clerks to squeeze this data through. I consider that extremely dangerous. I am convinced that in the situation in which the Czech Republic is in, when the Prime Minister's emails are leaking, information is leaking from the Security Council of the State, we are not able to secure the basic things for the functioning of the Czech state, this to run, this unprepared, is simply impossible. Impossible, dangerous. And if that happens, it'll mean some irreversible changes for... not dishonest people, but for honest people who may say today, "I don't mind, I'll just put the data there, it doesn't pose any problem to me." But when they find out that someone is doing business with these data and knows exactly their output, their margins, from whom and at how much time they buy and so on - this is such an interesting know-how for big players on the market that they will buy them all and in the finals we will no longer have Mr. Novák or Mr. Svoboda's pub, but we will have the XY chain or the Z chain, when we won't even know who owns the chain. There'll be a owner of 150 or 200 pubs whose shareholders will be sitting somewhere in the Bahamas and all that. This system will contribute to this. I don't think we're supposed to be looking for a solution to keep our black money from running. But what is being built here today is dangerous from the point of view of leaking information, and therefore it is not possible to support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u53	Thank you. Madame Černochová, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u54	Mr President -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u55	pardon, she's gonna get the Deputy Prime Minister's prerogative. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u56	Please don't shorten my time. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the electronic record of sales reminds us from the beginning to the end of the tossing of peas on the wall. Rational arguments against the introduction of this pointless system, which is unprecedented in developed Western countries and to which the government seeks inspiration on the contrary in countries that cannot be considered as economic tigers, sounds not only from the opposition but also from professional circles. The government has decided to declare a similar class struggle to all businessmen, small entrepreneurs, people who are self-sufficient and independent of the state. Although this phrase often sounds, it is not an empty phrase. EET is not the only and far from the first instrument the government wants to wipe them out. Just remember the law to introduce VAT control reports since New Year and we had a heated debate here a year ago. It is this law combined with the EET that represents for many entrepreneurs who, for example, do not manage with large capital, but are able to make a living without asking for support or social benefits, a death cocktail. The motive for these new control instruments is supposed to be the elimination of tax evasion. Yes, that sounds like a noble goal, but it should be noted that even a flock of sheep are not walking with a cannon just because some of them are limping. I believe that true motives are quite different. The intolerance of socialists in relation to private entrepreneurs may not surprise any of us. Socialists, by principle, will not tolerate a group of self-sufficient people who do not buy for generous gifts in the form of various benefits and aids. Surprisingly, though, tradesmen may want to pursue a movement that many of them have given their confidence in the elections in the hope that it is a right-wing party that will not throw sticks at them. [[Big noise in the whole hall]] . Mr. Chairman, I beg you to give me peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u57	[[Delay]] . Excuse me, I'm sorry, I consulted the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u58	I'm running out of time counting down relentlessly. I can't hear myself because I'm talking to my colleagues from YES -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u59	Calm down and I'll give you one minute, madam. [[♪ Big noise doesn't stop ♪]] .
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u60	KDU-ČSL colleagues, Social Democrats. Indeed, Mr President, I beg you to calm down so that we can discuss this point with dignity.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u61	That's what I'm trying to do, if you'll just let me handle this, I'll do it. I ask the House for peace, and I will give you one minute to make it fair. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u62	Thank you. These private business voters forgot that Andrej Babiš is a businessman of a completely different kind, that in his case he is an oligarch, for whom a small businessman is also an enemy. In fact, the market represents a dangerous competition between its food production in agriculture, which is a barrier to the successful development of Agrofert subsidiaries and so on. And if competition cannot be defeated by the quality and price of its own products, why not go below the threshold through political means? The bread from Penam and the church sausage will eventually be eaten by all of you, whether you like it or not. The draft law, in addition to a deeper analysis, which would prove the well-founded implementation of the EET in some way, lacks a relevant assessment of the impact of this system on the business environment. Entrepreneurs' costs of acquiring hardware, internet access costs, all of which have been discussed a thousand times. But Mr. Finance Minister's remarks that who does not have CZK 2,000 to buy a smartphone does not have the right to do business are a mockery to all decent and honest entrepreneurs. Of course, I understand that his optics are merely tiny money. However, this does not entitle him to speak of small businessmen in this rude way. The reality is that for many, especially smaller businessmen, this obligation will indeed be winding up. I am talking especially about those for whom their business is, for example, just a certain income, those who do not need million-dollar profits for their lives, but their business is sufficient for a happy life, or those for whom the EET will simply mean, alongside other regulatory and repressive measures, the last drop that will lead to the destruction of their business. . [[Still a lot of noise in the whole hall]] In addition to these people, it is not yet possible to mention groups where register registers are pure nonsense. I consider it absolutely absurd that the EET should also apply, for example, to private doctors who collect in cash the absolute minimum amounts in thousands or tens of thousands of crowns per year. I can't imagine how this system will work with retailers in markets and marketplaces. As mayor of Prague 2, I am proud to have managed to revive places such as the flood -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u63	Excuse me, coworkers and colleagues, once again, I'm asking for peace of mind. Please settle down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u64	As Mayor of Prague 2, I am proud to have managed to revive such places as the waterfall on Rašín's embankment, regular farmers' markets on Tylovo Square, Jiřího z Poděbrad Square, vintage on Grébovka. These are all actions that will very much touch those entrepreneurs who will have to implement the EET. For me, the idea that these vendors, when tens of thousands of people are waiting in the queue, will deal with the electronic cashier's service, with the mandatory printing of receipts for each sold sausage, ice cream, or a glass of peanuts, really seems absurd to me, Minister of Finance. If the real intention of the Ministry of Finance is to make such events unpleasant for organizers, retailers and visitors, then the EET is the right tool to achieve this plan. [[10.50 hours]] As a person who appreciates every active person, anyone who has the courage to take responsibility for his life and rely only on my own abilities, I completely reject the current government's approach to these people, rejecting their dehonestation, when the government by mouth and the steps of its Vice-President and Finance Minister makes all thieves, frauds and liars. The argument that an honest businessman has nothing to worry about and that he always issues the receipt is completely false. It will, of course, issue it on request today, but it does not have to incur additional costs for the electronic cash register and internet connection and other associated investments. It is absolutely absurd and ridiculous to tell someone that he is honest and, at the same time, to impose new and new control and regulatory obligations on him. Finally, perhaps one more such remark, perhaps rhetorical. How can a law, one of the main actors, authors and protagonists, Deputy Secretary Hornochová, be credible, abandons its position even before this law even reaches its destination? And it's just a question of how voluntary or involuntary this is going to be. In any case, it is a fact that will not add anything to the seriousness of electronic sales records. After what we have experienced here, colleagues and colleagues, last Thursday and de facto since then we have been going on and on and on and on, that is, seeing how fatally information is leaking from the Security Council of the State, directly from the Prime Minister's people, I can think of one more thing on this occasion. This is really - and this is what my colleague Holeček was talking about - going to be getting data into the system, huge data. This government is unable to maintain the information they receive from the intelligence services. Will this government be able to keep the information that Minister Babiš will have under his control? Where do we know that what's really going on since last week isn't going to happen here, that we're going to learn from the newspaper articles, from different weekly news servers, about which businessman is, what's his financial credibility, or not? How can we be sure if the government is unable to control information from the BRS that Mr Babiš will be willing to monitor information that he will have very detailed in his databases as Minister of Finance? That's a real question that I don't think has occurred to me since last week alone, that she attacked every person who cares about these leaks of information. I would like the members of the government coalition who did not vote yesterday to include this item in the meeting, so the meeting will be extraordinary so that they have time to think about what is really going on in this state and if they still want to salt and if they want to make further demands not only on our entrepreneurs, but to put in a system of more data that our government is unable to control. And let's not lie to ourselves that it's different, and let's not argue that this information is that they escaped from the intelligence service or what we heard from the Prime Minister yesterday. Here, the members of the government are simply to stand before us clearly and tell us how it is, so that we have no doubt and are not afraid of what will happen to the data of our entrepreneurs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u65	Thank you. I have two factual points here, one for President Kalousek, then Mr Kučera. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Since the eleventh hour is approaching, and when I applied with priority rights, I found that the members of the government want to fill this time, so allow me to use the space of factual comment to inform you that there are still fourteen members of the MP's club who have not spent their time, and one that you have reduced to them under the Rules of Procedure. We, colleagues, did not object when you reduced the hearing to two or ten minutes. You had the right under the Rules of Procedure to do so. In my opinion, you have no right to think and say to these 14 Members: we will also deny the law that we have reduced. Please note that most of them have prepared a proposal pursuant to § 95 para. The President of the European Parliament, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the As long as they are not allowed to make these proposals and are not put to the vote, we are completely out of the law and out of the area of democratic debate. Colleagues, once again I ask you to allow these 14 people to exhaust their discussion space, which you yourself have designated for them, that is to say twice ten minutes, and I warn you that these 14 discussion posts contain several carefully prepared proposals in accordance with Section 95 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u67	Thank you. Mr Kučera, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u68	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been discussing electronic sales records for quite some time now. However, even today, there are things that are very fundamental and which, in this form, as my previous speaker, Mr Bendl, has, for example, presented today, are also very alarming. I am very pleased that Mr Bendl has raised the question of so-called cashback companies here. That is the thing that Minister Andrej Babiš completely ignores and is passing away in his risk assessments. Ladies and gentlemen, I would really like to call on you very much if you intend to interrupt this debate at 11 o'clock even though you have learned such essential information that can greatly affect the electronic sales record system without responding to it so that we can properly discuss and discuss this information about the possibility of misuse of electronic sales records by cashback companies, so I will consider it one of the greatest risks of recent times. Unfortunately, the risk that will be caused by the vote of the government coalition YES, KDU-ČSL and ČSSD. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you, allow us to discuss this risk. The risk of misuse of electronic sales records by cashback companies is so serious that the threat really is. If the real intention of the Ministry of Finance is to make such events unpleasant for organizers, retailers and visitors, then the EET is the right tool to achieve this plan. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u69	One more point in fact, Mr Vácha. [[Members on the right side of the hall argue loudly about something.]] Mr. Vácha? In that case, Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u70	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, from your astonished looks, I understand that you haven't heard much of what I said. Once again - we have taken seriously and more or less with humility your decision that the debate will be reduced, that every speaker in the Chamber of Deputies, no matter whether coalition or opposition, will have twice ten minutes. That is why we have prepared our discussion posts. Fourteen of my colleagues don't stand a chance of using the right that you have given them by voting. There are several suggestions in these 14 discussion posts, which according to § 95 para. 2 can be submitted at third reading, proposals of legislative technical and proposals for return to second reading. [[11.00 hours]] They are carefully justified by the belief that their translators will convince you to comply with their proposals and support them. If you do not allow them to make these proposals even within the time you have appointed them, then you have raped parliamentary debate in a way that is unprecedented in the modern parliamentaryism of the Czech Republic. Once again, I beg you to reconsider.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-001-999.u71	Yes. It is 11 o'clock and, in accordance with the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, we will proceed to the vote. We need to end the debate, which we will decide by the vote that I have taken, and I ask who agrees to the end of the debate, press the button and raise your hand. [[Noise and protests in the hall.]] Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 28, registered as 157, for 96, against 50, this proposal has been adopted.
