ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-011-049.u1	49. Members of Stanislav Polčák, Jan Farský and Marek Ženíšek's proposal to issue a constitutional law amending constitutional law No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended /house print 233/ - first reading The Government's position was delivered as the House's press 233/1. prosit have Mr Jan Farský present the proposal to the representatives of the appellants. All right, Mr. Ženíšek will speak for the plaintiff. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-011-049.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me, as one of the petitioners, to give a very brief explanation of the proposal tabled, which ended its second year of existence in the Chamber of Deputies this June. The proposed proposal concerns Article 84 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, paragraphs 1 and 2, in which the term of office of judges of the Constitutional Court is extended from the current ten years to the twelve years, while preventing re-election. No one could be appointed a judge of the Constitutional Court more than once, which is the substance of the proposal. Under the current legislation, the same person is not excluded from becoming a Judge of the Constitutional Court repeatedly. The repeated exercise of the mandate is not excluded even in fact in view of the fact that the minimum age limit laid down for judges of the Constitutional Court is 40 years old. It is therefore not possible to rule out cases where an individual will be appointed by a Constitutional Court judge even more than twice, but this has not yet been the case in practice. However, there are several cases known from the previous constitutional practice, five of them, when the same person became a judge of the Constitutional Court just twice. In our opinion, the greatest lack of current regulation is the possibility of repeated performance of the position of judge of the Constitutional Court. For one thing, it is also quite exceptional from a comparative point of view when there are only a few countries, e.g. It's Azerbaijan where it is. The reason why such a model is not applied in the vast majority of countries lies precisely in fear of endangering the independence of judges of the Constitutional Court. Perhaps it is worth recalling that we would find many such judicial decisions in a number of countries that could hardly be passed on to judges who would have to think about their re-election. Unfortunately, the Senate's procedure two years ago, which did not at the time express its agreement to re-appointed judges of the Výborný and Nykodým, and not too accentuated, although we think their position on the constitutionality of the law on property settlement with churches and religious societies was a key argument. This certainly sends a strong signal to all existing judges, as well as to persons whose appointment as a judge of the Constitutional Court in the future takes into account that their decision-making activities need not be dealt with without consequences in the event of repeated appointments. The natural response can thus be to adapt the decision-making activities of the Senate majority, which is in complete conflict with the requirements for the independent and impartial performance of the position of Judge of the Constitutional Court. These reasons, which I am stating, clearly indicate, in our opinion, the abolition of the possibility of re-executing the position of judge of the Constitutional Court by the same person, and this is also the substance of the proposed legislation. It is accompanied by a proposal to extend the term of office of judges of the Constitutional Court, from ten, from the current ten-year period to twelve years. This change seems appropriate in the light of the arguments I put forward a moment ago. Having considered all the relevant arguments, we have turned to the possibility of achieving this amendment of the Constitution of the Czech Republic during the legislative process through the simple amendment that we are proposing, if it takes place after a thorough discussion, as the amendment of the Constitution naturally requires, a consensus. Thank you for your attention, perhaps very briefly, and I firmly believe that the proposal will find support among you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-011-049.u3	Thank you, too. I'm gonna ask you to take a seat at the news desk. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Marie Benešová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-011-049.u4	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal has been presented, and I do not have a problem with it, and I have always supported one mandate that is not repeated, because it always leads to the fact that the judges, in an effort to renew the mandate, did not behave independently anymore. I won't have a problem with this. I'm sure I'll support the proposal. In fact, it can be said that the mandate is extended from ten to twelve years, which is essentially two years more. As I consulted in the Constitutional Court, constitutional judges will not have a problem with this change. I would recommend releasing the second reading and ordering the Constitutional Legal Committee to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-011-049.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate in which I am registering one application, Mr Plíšek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-011-049.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me intercede myself to release this proposal for amending the Constitution to second reading. This proposal received support from the Sub-Committee on the Constitutional Legal Committee. And it is not the first proposal that we would release to second reading, because we have already released a draft constitutional amendment to the second reading by Members of the KSČM, which concerns that the Member loses his mandate in the event of a final conviction for a deliberate crime. So it must be said that the Constitutional Committee is already in session or has another amendment to the Constitution to be discussed. [[15.20 hours]] Unfortunately, I have to say that there is also a parked government proposal that has not heard some of the opposition parties' proposals and is subject only to an agreement in the government coalition. We realise, of course, that a qualified majority in both chambers of the Czech Parliament is in favour of adopting constitutional change, but this can be discussed precisely in the course of a detailed discussion, because, from a factual point of view, this proposal has support not only in the subcommittee of the Constitutional Committee and parliamentary procedures, but also in support of experts on constitutional law, and as we have seen during a recent visit to the Constitutional Court in Brno, this proposal and the support of the Constitutional Court are, of course, also in the light of some modifications at second reading, because, as my previous speakers, Mrs Benešová, and the chief petitioner, Mr Ženíšek, have already said, it is not desirable to repeat the mandate of the judges of the Constitutional Court, because, at the end of the first term, there is a risk of adapting their decisions to the current political majority in the Senate, or vice versa, because they will not be approved in the Senate because they will be assessed how they have decided in specific decisions, resolutions or awards from the Constitutional Court. So I think that since we already have another draft amendment to the Constitution in the Constitutional Legal Committee at second reading, there is no problem releasing this proposal. Perhaps at least, I do not know if in this parliamentary term, we will consider that we could act within not only the coalition and the opposition, but across the political spectrum of those proposals that have a chance, and I think that this proposal is quite thoroughly studied and, above all, developed and agreed that we can talk about it. That is why I am asking for his support even though it is submitted by opposition Members. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-011-049.u7	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr Tejc is registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-011-049.u8	Thank you for the floor. We can probably continue to debate whether it is a good thing that an experienced and long-term judge cannot repeat the mandate, even though the President and the Senate would be convinced of this, and that person would be interested in continuing to work and taking advantage of the experience in the Constitutional Court, or, on the contrary, it is a risk in terms of possible influence in that one period for a further period if he wanted to obtain that mandate. I would rather now prevent us from adopting amendments to the Constitution for this period of two, three, four, changing individualities. But I do not want to prevent the proposal from progressing until further discussion, so I will not make a motion for rejection, I would just ask that, if the proposal goes further, first of all, we take advantage of the option, if the Government's proposal for a broader amendment to the Constitution is discussed at the same time, so that this is first discussed as an amendment, if the proposal is not approved or if the amendment is not accepted, then the proposal that we have here would be applied separately and could be adopted. So it's more about not constantly changing the Constitution, and if one attempt is possible to do it together, if we don't, then we can go back to the proposal. But the proposal can be on the committee, it can be discussed and we can therefore wait for it to be included in the House, depending on what it looks like with the proposal, which is wider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-011-049.u9	Thank you, too. Now, then, Mr Karamazov, duly signed up for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-011-049.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to express my support for the petitioners in their intention to extend the term of office of the judges of the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic from ten to twelve years, while at the same time preventing them from performing this function more than once. As the appellants themselves suggest in the explanatory memorandum, the role of judges of the Constitutional Court is not always perceived only from a professional legal point of view, but often from a political point of view. An example can be the abolition of health charges, from the time before that, we need to discuss the compliance of the Treaty of Lisbon with constitutional order. Both these topics and, of course, many others are so legally complex that it is not always possible to make a clear conclusion about them. All the more so, there is room for politicians to mix legal and political arguments. This results only in political pressure on individual judges. Then, while I have no doubt about their best intentions, they must be influenced by this pressure. It is not possible, either, if the President and the Senate decide on their possible continued stay in the Constitutional Court. On this basis, I believe that preventing a constitutional judge from being elected more than once can strengthen the independence of constitutional judges, and this proposal therefore has my support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-011-049.u11	I thank you and ask if anyone else is joining the debate. I don't see anyone. If this is the case, I am ending the general debate and I am asking whether you want to take the final floor by the rapporteur or the appellant. It's not like that. Since there has been no proposal to refer back or reject the proposal, we will therefore consider the proposal on the commandments of the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the motion to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee. In connection with the amendment of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies with effect from 1. 3. 2015 I propose that we order the bill to be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see anyone, no suggestion. We will take the vote. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that the proposal put forward be ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a guarantee committee. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 227, 143 Members and Members signed in, in favour of proposal 127, against 1. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies has not proposed by his decision to order this proposal to the next committee, and I ask whether anyone has a proposal on the commandment to the next committee or committees. I'm not registering any applications, so we're not going to bring this press to any other committee. I'm done discussing this point. I thank both the appellant and the rapporteur. I'll read the apologies. From 14.30 to the end of the day, for reasons of work, the Minister of Foreign Affairs apologizes, and from 15.30 to 17.00 today, for reasons of work, Mr Běhounek apologizes. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
