ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-011-050.u1	50. Government bill on security activities and amendment of related laws /German press 495/ - first reading We discussed this House press on 23 March this year, when we interrupted the general debate. The minister is already standing at the speaker's table. I'm gonna ask him to hold on. I ask the rapporteur, that is Bronislav Schwarz, to take his place. Minister, you have the floor. I am merely informing the House that we will then continue the interrupted general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-011-050.u2	Madam President, honourable Members, I would like to mention the substance of the law we are discussing. So we're already at an interrupted point, i.e. I would merely summarise and recall, above all, the basic objectives of the proposed new legislation. The main objective of this standard is to exempt private security services from the trade law regime, which is one of the painful points that we will remedy with this standard if adopted. Furthermore, the establishment of clear entry conditions for the performance of security activities by businessmen and their employees. This means age, integrity, reliability, health and professional competence. For another then authorization to do business in the field of commercial security on the basis of a licence issued by the Ministry of the Interior for a period of ten years after prior expression of services and the Police of the Czech Republic, thus increasing a certain form of supervision of entities that provide such sensitive services. Another crucial point for us is the categorization of individual security activities according to their specific content. The next item is the anchoring of the conditions for carrying out security activities by natural and legal persons for their own use on so-called. non-commercial basis. Another important item is the adaptation of the basic principles of the relationship between private security services and other entities. Furthermore, the definition of offences and administrative offences in the field of security activities and penalties imposed on them, including the withdrawal of a licence, which I said should be acquired by these entities for ten years. Last but not least, it is an anchoring of the control of the performance of security activities by the state. I consider the setting up of a legal framework for the performance of security activities and a clear definition of the scope of private security services to be the advantages of the new legislation. Security clearance of entities active in the field of commercial security, thereby reducing security risks, including possible misuse of security services in the private and public sectors. Furthermore, I am undoubtedly eliminating unreliable entrepreneurs operating e.g. in the field of so-called gray economies. From this standard we also promise to improve the quality of services provided to customers of private security agencies in all respects, including. also due to significantly higher requirements on the qualifications of entrepreneurs and their employees, which will be essential for obtaining the necessary licence. And, of course, last but not least, we are also trying to remove the absence of legislation, where the Czech Republic is still among the few remaining countries of the European Union, which do not have a similar standard dealing with this environment and this problem. The new legislation carries increased costs on the part of the State, especially on the budget of the Ministry of the Interior. These will be the costs associated with personnel and material provision of extradition and, where appropriate, removal, suspension of the validity of licences for the performance of private security activities, registration of persons who will carry out selected security activities for their own use, i.e. the so-called. a non-commercial basis, and, of course, a check of compliance with all legal conditions. [[17.10 hours]] Finally, let me express my conviction that the outcome of the next legislative process will be the adoption of a quality law that will benefit entrepreneurs in the field of private security services, but also their customers in particular. This will undoubtedly contribute to the comprehensive parliamentary amendment prepared by the Sub-Committee on the Police of the Czech Republic, the municipal police and private security services, aimed in particular at tightening the conditions for the performance of the private detectives' security activities so that this security activity cannot be misused in the future, as well as extending the State's ability to control and supervise security activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-011-050.u3	Thank you, Minister. I ask the rapporteur whether he is interested in speaking. Yes, and I'm going to ask the lady to hold on a little longer. [[Black]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-011-050.u4	Good evening, Madam Vice-President, colleagues. I'm not going to continue talking to the Minister because it was exhausting, except for my taste, already professional enough. I'm missing one thing here for those who just went through the law or heard about it because, in fact, 25 years in our country, they've been talking about the fact that security agencies don't have any laws. Security agencies, as you know them, have actually been working here or working here or carrying out their activities on the basis of 27 certain laws, regulations, regulations to be followed. From business law, business corporation law, protection of personal data, so according to 27 such things. And this law, if nothing else, I want to say here, as rapporteur, that it may finally be possible to enact and make clear the rules for the functioning of security agencies, as you know them, so that they operate according to a clear regulation. As rapporteur, I also expect amendments to some of you because everything is not perfect, but this law needs to be done before I start talking about it or talking about it, really read it and realize what it is for, as the Minister has spoken, and what it will do for us. It's very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-011-050.u5	Thank you and I am now asking for the microphone of Mrs Černochová, who was interrupted in her speech. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-011-050.u6	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister, Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, let me therefore mention some of the comments that I have had in the context of the present draft law on security activities and which I think we should pay attention to. The aim of this law according to the explanatory memorandum is to modify the legal framework of private security services in the Czech Republic. This law, which is incredibly absent, as the rapporteur has rightly said here for several years, is intended to affect about 6 500 business entities in the area of private security activities. These entities employ more than 50 000 employees and their annual turnover reported for 2014 is around 18 billion. Crowns. The explanatory memorandum of this proposal mentions a large number of risks and dangers associated with private security services, respectively. just inappropriate existing legislation. It is in particular abuse of the services provided to the detriment of the client, use of the security services instead or in addition to the municipal police or fluctuations in the professional quality of the service providers' staff. The explanatory memorandum also refers to security services as a potential "harassment and instrument of criminal elements and intelligence services of foreign powers'. In view of the sensitivity of this issue of performance of private security and the number of entrepreneurs and employees in this sector, this is certainly a necessary and significant law. In that I agree with my previous speakers. However, it is now up to us, Members, to consider the level of intervention of state power in the market environment and, in particular, in the personal rights of individuals themselves, even with regard to the international obligations of the State in relation to foreign security service providers. The draft law shows that the state represented by its security forces, such as the Police of the Czech Republic, the intelligence services and others, and the Ministry of the Interior is to take over the supervision of private security services very fundamentally, even in an unusually hard way compared to abroad. Why do I think the way is thorough and hard? Where, for example, each licence application for each provider is to be subject to a mandatory request for the opinion of the intelligence services. This other legislation in Europe, or perhaps in a civilised world around us, does not contain this. To compare, I can state that in most countries, the Ministry of the Interior of the relevant country is a key body for the decision to issue a licence to an entrepreneur, and the licence is issued on the basis of an opinion of the highest police authority in relation to criminal proceedings. A close link to the intelligence services and the nature of their comments in the licensing procedure is thus a key aspect of this law. In the present proposal, I see in particular the difficulties of disproportionate interference with the privacy of natural persons and the under-defined scope and subject matter of the investigation by the intelligence services. Although the State does not transfer any part of its power to private entities in the draft law, all persons listed in the application for a licence may, without defining whether they are legal or natural persons, be widely investigated by the intelligence services in relation to the legally indefinite security risks. In my opinion, this will lead to absurd and disproportionate situations where local security providers, too, will be forced to subject their privacy to an indistinguishable inquiry into state forces specializing in action against the most serious threats to security interests. I believe that the proposed regulation so unnecessarily doubles the regulation contained in the Secret Information and Security Eligibility Act, when the licensing procedure thus becomes a de facto security clearance due to the mandatory involvement of intelligence services, although the social risk associated with the performance of security of storage spaces is certainly at a far lower level than access to classified information. I think we can all agree on that. I believe that a more appropriate concept would be that which is still in use today, when, in the event of a particular nature of the interests protected, the client is required by a provider certified by the National Security Office for the relevant level of confidentiality. It is all the more important that these statements by the intelligence services should in themselves contain a conclusion as to whether or not a licence should be issued. This, in my view, is a non-discriminatory transfer of factual decision-making powers from the Ministry of the Interior to these institutions, although the Ministry remains both legally and politically responsible. It is hard to imagine that the Ministry will decide otherwise than the conclusion of the institution concerned, as it itself will not have sufficient other documents. However, the third, no less substantial aspect of these statements of intelligence is that the applicant will often not be able to get to know their content at all, let alone respond to them in an appeal. Also a thing that's not normal. In fact, the law envisages that if they are classified information, which can certainly be expected for reports of this nature, the Ministry may, in its reasoning, completely resign from their content. In view of the adjustment of the administrative rules, they will also be excluded from any inspection of the file by the applicant. [[17.20 hours]] It also seems special to me that the intended introduction of a negative register of unsuccessful applicants for the issue of a licence, such a black sheet containing a list of those entities for 10 years, including the grounds for refusal. The importance of the register is sanctioned when such an entrepreneur is de facto disqualified from any market, even if he continues to pursue his activity outside the security services area. Such an entity will be completely disadvantaged from competition, even if the information found in the licensing procedure is not relevant to the business sector. The meaning of this unique record is eluding me, Minister. The draft law is certainly a good promise to create the necessary legislative framework for this segment of the market, however, with regard to the number of entities, whether physical or legal, and the degree of interference with their rights, in my view, it is necessary to proceed in discussing the draft law so that the adoption of a new law on security activities is a really high quality law increasing the level of security services and does not require further rapid conceptual changes in the short term at the expense of its addressees. For this reason, my fellow Members, I would like to propose an extension of 30 days. Thank you. In case the Minister, as the petitioner, does not agree to this extension, I propose an extension of 20 days under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-011-050.u7	Thank you, Madame. And now, please, to Mr. Lank's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-011-050.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. This law is intended to regulate the terms of business and the entry of entities into the market which is not small. As my colleague Černochová has already said here, according to the current data of the Union of Private Security Services, it has almost 50,000 employees and it is a market in which almost 7,000 entities have obtained concession permits under the trade law. These entities compete mostly with each other over the long term, and we cannot be too surprised by them. It is enough to look at the way in which public contracts are published by our ministries, where often the only evaluation criterion is the price. As an example, I can mention the Ministry of Culture, which has issued a tender called the provision of physical security services and a centralized protection counter in the buildings of the Ministry of Culture and its contribution organisations and state funds, that's the name of it, or the Ministry of Agriculture with the selection process of Security Service. In both cases, the price was selected as a key evaluation parameter and the winning offers represent an approximate hourly rate per worker in some cases around CZK 85. Thus, companies engaged in private security activities have to offer as low prices as possible, which are often below the cost of the minimum guaranteed security worker's wage after deduction of other operating costs. By the way, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, unlike the other ministries, recognised a minimum price of physical security of CZK 130 and 10 cents without VAT. Whatever is below this price should therefore be regarded as an extremely low bid price within the meaning of the Public Procurement Act. So how do companies get to these prices? And that's where I see a fairly fundamental security problem. Many security agencies employ people with disabilities and are therefore entitled to a contribution to support the employment of such persons. Then, while state institutions can claim, after the award of the contract, that they are proceeding with the care of a proper economy, but the low competitive price, which the contracting authorities then boast, is of course increased by this State contribution, which is no longer included in the costs of the public contract. Private security services employ about 6,000 people with disabilities, and it is generally known that many of these people will never see this contribution to the state, but it makes a significant part of the profits of these companies. Therefore, the Act on Private Security still lacks the categorization of individual activities in conjunction with clear health requirements for employees performing, for example, physical surveillance. If this is not adjusted, it will continue to occur that, at a time when the whole of Europe is facing the current and specific threats of terrorism, State buildings and critical infrastructure will be guarded by disabled people or pensioners. I would really like to know how at the moment of danger these persons will ensure the safety of third parties moving in guarded, often publicly accessible objects. There is no way I want to discriminate against people with difficult social application, but it is necessary to define clearly what health requirements are required for the performance of the security service activity. Furthermore, according to my opinion, the bill inefficiently prevents the past abuse of the performance of security activities for its own use, which has not actually been regulated at all until now. The obligation to register the performance of surveillance for its own needs and therefore compliance with the basic legal conditions for the performance of security activities is laid down by the law only for the performance of its own surveillance by a worker with a weapon. It does not take into account the overall scope of the activity itself and, in particular, the number of persons carrying out security activities, albeit unarmed. Thus, without any regulation of compliance with minimum standards, entities could continue to carry out surveillance of large buildings, where only administratively rent one room for the purpose of fulfilling their own security conditions, or they could supply security services in the form of the provision of agency staff. I also agree with the previous speaker, Mrs Černochová, that the level of involvement of the secret services is disproportionately high, is at risk of abuse or, on the contrary, of being overwhelmed. And I also believe that by adopting the law in this form, we would allow the state to go too far beyond citizens' privacy. I therefore propose that this law be returned to the applicant for work within the meaning of the above comments, so that his adoption really means improving the private security services market and we do not have to amend this law immediately after the adoption, which would undermine the legal certainty of the operators on this market. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-011-050.u9	Thank you. And now I beg you, Mr Chalupa, in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-011-050.u10	Thank you for the floor. Very briefly to the performance of the previous speaker. On the contrary, I think that the law needs to be passed at first reading, to get it into expert committees and there to really focus on the individual parameters of the law. And I will look at it that way, and I think that we can actually agree on that in our parliamentary club, so I will look at it that, essentially, if we can set up new parameters for the performance of the services of people employed in private security agencies, then this can be a significant contribution to increasing the country's ability to face critical situations where essentially a number of objects and, say, entities can be guarded by these private services, and the Army and the Police of the Czech Republic and other professional congregations can engage in really more serious activities. That's how I'm gonna look at it, that's how I'm gonna approach the law. However, I appeal to you to vote for his transfer at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-011-050.u11	Thank you. Now, please, with Mr Klučka's de facto. Mr Grospič will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-011-050.u12	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. Already in the opening words of the rapporteur and some others, we have heard sighs about how many years we have missed this law. I would very much like you to find a moment of time and in the archive you will find on your computers, in those previous terms of office, to look at the creation of this law and the situation why it was withdrawn, why it was rejected and why it was stopped. Very please, and it is in line with what my colleague Chalupa said in front of me, let us work on it and act on the committees. If you have any proposal to improve this text, prepare it, give it to the guarantee committee or prepare it for the House meeting. It's all about discussion. But please, let's not waste this chance to finally complete the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-011-050.u13	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr. Grospič's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-011-050.u14	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I will probably perform in the spirit of my previous speakers, i.e. I will be inclined to allow the bill to be rereaded, to be discussed by this Chamber of Deputies, and, at the same time, I am calling on the extension of the time limit for its discussion, because I consider it to be very serious. I consider it very serious for several reasons. The first reason is, or one of those reasons is that almost 50,000 people here are basically different legal regulations regulated by armed forces, which are not completely under the control of the Czech state and can be under the influence of often organizations or companies, which are not supposed to have any too legitimate opportunities to operate so far. This is a very serious moment and I would like to point out that, in the past, the same problem was discussed in connection with one of the unnamed Members who also had a private security agency, and it was connected with him and these problems. The other problem. Security agencies or people who work in various security services are often used and worked in the form of agency staff. This is a very serious problem that needs to be dealt with, and it is also a matter of attention when it comes to discussing this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-011-050.u15	Thank you, those were factual remarks. Before I invite Mr Kort to the microphone, who is next in line, allow me to load my apologies. Mr Benešík apologizes from today's meeting between 17.20 and the end of the meeting, Mr Radim Fiala apologizes from 18.00 to 18.00 for health reasons for today's meeting, Mr Vojtěch Adam apologizes from 17.00 to 19.00 from today's meeting for working reasons Mr Schwarzenberg apologizes from today's meeting from 17.00 to the end of the meeting and Mr Šenfeld apologizes from today's meeting. I beg Mr Korte now. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-011-050.u16	Thank you for the floor. Before I come to the point, Madam President - yes, you succeeded in the second attempt. The name Korte is tilted. Thank you. Two. I found myself on the board twice logged in by some completely unclear driving, so please consider the second application irrelevant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-011-050.u17	The last one, I'm not gonna stand by her.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-011-050.u18	Yes. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. As has been said here, this draft law on security activities represents a completely new legislation that has a serious impact not only on operators of these services but also on employees, as has been said, it is about 50,000 people, but also on their clients, namely the contracting authorities of those services, but above all on this activity of the person concerned, which we should think of first. This area was as a trade licensed so far poorly, virtually. almost in no way regulated, and thus offered a number of security risks for both clients and customers, as well as for business or political entities and, after all, for the entire company in the event of possible abuse by the security services themselves, criminal groups or intelligence services of foreign states. The proposal seeks to eliminate these risks. It brings a whole new perspective on this field of human activity and so there is a lot of positive... Sorry. I will mention the positives, although many of them have been said here, not because I want to delay, but because I want to be fair and not just being negative. I think the exclusion from the trade law and the law itself is a good thing, it is a good definition of the two types of activity, commercial and non-commercial, or for private use, even with the division of the subspecies, the types of activity. Commercial activity on the basis of a licence, non-commercial on the basis of registration, or a more moderate administrative procedure. It is all right, then, just a question, as the Minister mentioned, whether ten years is not too long, but we will explain this, if necessary, during further discussion. I like the fact that the law sets out the conditions for the issue of a licence, the general conditions for the exercise of a security activity, defines self-righteousness, integrity, reliability, health and, in particular, professional competence. I think this condition is a significant step forward because it represents a guarantee of the quality of services for the client. I have a positive assessment of the prohibition or crossing of these activities. Example. He can't hire someone to serve a private investigator against the person he protects. An important plus is my duty to secrecy, which lasts until the end of ages, even after the end of a contractual or employment relationship. I think that compulsory liability insurance is also a good thing. The proposal provides for offences, administrative offences of legal persons, natural persons, operators, employers, employees, members of statutory bodies, doctors and sanctions. That's a good one. But that, ladies and gentlemen, is over. We need to focus on the weaknesses. A new workplace at the Ministry of the Interior with a strength of about 40 employees is to be set up to perform supervision. However, all supervision, as described in Section 62, exhausts its ability to give an oral instruction or a written decision to remedy identified deficiencies. The supervisory activity shall focus only on checking the fulfilment of qualification assumptions and administrative obligations. If we look at a more insensitive area as the activity of a private detective, so his duties are contained in Section 43. Quote: 1. The operator is obliged to: (a) ensure the protection of the person, fundamental rights and freedoms and the protection of personal data of all persons, (b) maintain a list of persons engaged in private security activities. 2. The Ministry shall lay down the requirements of the list referred to in paragraph 1 (a). (b). Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, but that's ridiculous. The activity of a private detective, not only during the possible deployment of operational technical means, constitutes a serious intervention in fundamental human and civil rights guaranteed by the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. It is an intervention in the right to privacy under Article 7, the right to protection against unauthorised collection, disclosure or other misuse of personal data pursuant to Article 10, the right to the integrity of dwellings pursuant to Article 12 and the right to the secrecy of messages submitted by telephone pursuant to Article 13. [[17.40 hours]] In the explanatory note in a special section, it is stated on this paragraph - I quote: "The author of the bill considers this area to be very sensitive from the point of view of its perception by both the lay and professional public. " However, this sentence concludes the petitioner's sensitive approach to this issue. The petitioner takes a great deal of work to demonstrate on 15 pages of the explanatory note that introducing a special arrangement explicitly prohibiting unauthorised monitoring of persons, including so-called "the "one-off" in the proposal. illegal wiretaps, and these are all, please, except those carried out by the Police of the Czech Republic under the rules of the Criminal Code § 88 or 128, and to introduce into the Criminal Code the special nature of the offence affecting such conduct is redundant, since it is allegedly sufficiently covered by existing legislation. They even alibistically claim that the customer is responsible for the legality of the order. However, in the general part of the explanatory memorandum, the need for such an adjustment is mentioned as one of the main reasons for the new, i.e. this, legislation. I would like to quote on page 51: "It is possible to mention media-famous cases where one particular private security service has, in the past, significantly adversely affected the municipal elections held in the capital of Prague in 2010. She was most likely involved in solving the intra-party crisis of one of the former government parties through the installation of wiretapping devices in the apartment of a politically active person, etc. This has led to a fundamental shift in the perception of the current nature of the activities of private security services by the public, but also of the public authorities involved, and the limitation of these excesses of private security services cannot be achieved otherwise than by the proposed new legislation, which expressly prohibits similar activities." I stress that the proposed amendment aimed specifically to prohibit similar activities. But the deed has escaped! Ladies and gentlemen, on the contrary, I say that this area is not covered enough. In fact, if it were adequately covered, such unauthorized private interference would probably not occur. It is a public secret that several so-called. security agencies have Agatha at their disposal, which is a technical equipment for wiretapping owned by the Police of the Czech Republic. A private detective has a position like any other citizen, and it is therefore not possible for him to do what the police can only do under legal supervision. I had great hope that the measures to counter this illegal act, in which there is not only a violation of the fundamental human rights and freedoms, but also of other laws, such as the telecommunications law, will be reflected in this standard, and I must say that I am deeply disappointed. The proposer obviously succumbed to the lobbying of professional organisations, cooperation with which he openly admits in the explanatory report, and this means that the illegal state will continue. Because no one controls the illegal deployment of operationally technical means, there is no record of it, and therefore where there is no prosecutor, there is no judge. In addition to this prohibition, which I lack in the proposed text, it is necessary to prohibit public authorities and other public law entities, in particular public prosecutors, police, intelligence services, the State in general, but also the regions and municipalities, of course the municipal police, in order to rent services to certain security activities, in particular the service of a private investigator, or to carry out such activities themselves or to set up firms. The lack of such a ban makes it easy for state authorities to circumvent the prohibition or restriction of certain activities affecting human rights, and again I am talking about illegal stalking, and we have evidence that such a case has occurred in the recent past. I mean the military intelligence engagement in the Nečasová Nagyová case. Ladies and gentlemen, I consider this absence of an explicit ban on such illegal conduct within the framework of the private detective's service, the absence of appropriate regulation of the criminal code and, above all, the absence of effective implementation - I stress, Minister, an effective - physical and technical check, which, of course, cannot be handled by 40 administrative staff, as an absolutely fundamental lack of this proposal, for the lack of such a serious fact that I was initially determined to propose to refer the applicant's proposal back to the recast. In the meantime, however, several meetings with the Ministry of the Interior took place on the ground of the subcommittee on police, municipal police and private security services during the last three quarters of the year, which has taken a positive approach to some of our proposals, unfortunately with the exception of the amendment to the Criminal Code, and is prepared, as has been said, a comprehensive amendment. That is why the TOP 09 will release this proposal to second reading, but its final approval will make it conditional not only on the adoption of amendments, a comprehensive amendment, but also on the amendments to the Criminal Code, as I have said about it, which I will propose at second reading. Since it is a completely new, rather complicated standard and it would be worthwhile that its durability be longer than three months, as far as possible, until the next possible amendment, I refer to the proposal by my colleague Černochová to extend the deadline for 90 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-011-050.u19	Good evening, Madame, gentlemen. That was Mr Daniel Korte, and I have no further application for the debate. Before we go any further, I will state Mrs Válková Warová's apology from 17.30 to the end of the day. If no one checks in, I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking for the final word. Mr. Secretary? Yes, he's interested. The rapporteur? He'll be interested, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-011-050.u20	Mr President, my colleague and I have agreed that I will be very short and he will then provide some technical data. I want to thank you for today's debate. It is evident that the law is new, it is a new view of the solution of this undoubtedly important part of life around us, and there has been a lot of information mentioned here, and let's say there are some doubts as to how this system works to this day. No law is self-preservation, and there is no doubt that it will need to be amended gradually. On the other hand, I see it as a step in the right direction. In view of the debate that has been going on here, and I am very pleased that it has been very factual and, more or less, touched mainly on the technical parts and some specific provisions, I am joining this and I am in favour of extending the debate in the committees by 30 days. Because the material is so big, it just needs to be discussed until the last detail, and then we need to bring the standard here in the best possible condition and quality. So I agree to extend it by 30 days, of course I will also vote in favour. Thank you once again for the debate and I look forward to the debate in the committees, which will certainly be on the move very soon.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-011-050.u21	Thank you, Home Secretary Milan Chovanc. The rapporteur has his final word. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-011-050.u22	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I have also listened to all the speeches, both my colleague Černochová, my colleague Lank, my colleague Korte, so, of course, I have also listened to Mr Chalupa, Klučka and Grospič's factual remarks. And I have to tell you, as rapporteur, that nothing you've been saying or suggesting that you see a problem, or that you've commended it, is contrary to what I believe to be impossible to discuss, in committees, where we're going to send the law, or we're going to try to send it. And there is nothing contrary to where it will be directed, or where the law will be directed, which should be improved. It is not a contradiction with the incorporation of the rule of law - a comprehensive clear regulation of this law when our current regulation is removed. There is nothing contrary to the fact that we set clear conditions for security activities. Even when my colleague Korte, through the Vice-President, spoke of it, I do not see any contradiction. There's nothing against the introduction of a commercial license, where none of you have bothered for ten years. Then, of course, there is no problem in the area of business, if I have a security agency for myself, for my own business, so no one cared, which is also right that we will eliminate, or this law can and will eliminate unreliable businesses in the area of security. It sets out the clear qualifications of the security service operator. Atd. etc. And this is important, and so did my colleague Korte - the law itself defines offences and administrative offences in the field of security and sanctions imposed on them. Including withdrawal of licences to be granted. I think this is important because the law is viable. He was really getting ready - I won't say two, three, but I think about ten years old. Those who were interested in this talked about it, discussed it, and I am glad that your speech did not conflict with the aims of this law, which we should put into our lives. That's all, Mr. Vice-President. And as rapporteur, I would just repeat by concluding that there were three speeches, two proposals were made. One proposal for an extension in the committees for 30 days when the Minister said he agreed as a petitioner, so I see no problem here. And the second proposal was from my colleague, Lank, when he wants to return this bill to work. There is no other proposal, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-011-050.u23	Thank you, rapporteur. In the final words, you have also summarised the proposals for voting. The first proposal we have to decide is the proposal to return the proposal to the applicant for completion, even before we vote on further proposals. I'm gonna get everyone to know we're gonna make a decision. I'll check you out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Mr Lank's motion to return will be decided in the vote number 356, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of the return. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 356, 127 Members present for 5 against 104. The motion was not accepted. We can therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. First for the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone else have a proposal as a guarantee committee? It's not like that. [[Response to the question from the diaper:]] Guaranteed. We will decide in the vote number 357. I have begun voting number 357 and I ask who is in favour of the Guarantee Committee being the Security Committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 357, from 128 in favour of 126, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion as a guarantee committee for the Security Committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to other committees. Mrs Černochová is reporting for the debate, Mr Korte next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-011-050.u24	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, I would like to propose that this bill be referred to other committees, the Defence Committee and the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-011-050.u25	Yes. A colleague of Korte - he's not interested. Mr Votava has a proposal. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-011-050.u26	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, although the Committee on Budgets cannot complain about the lack of work, I will nevertheless allow myself to ask the Committee on Budgets for a commandment, because this law also concerns insurance, virtually. the insurance sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-011-050.u27	Thank you. These are three proposals for discussion in other committees. We will vote individually in order. In the vote number 358, we will decide on the command of the Defence Committee. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 358 from the present 130 for 96, against 19. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on the commandment of the Committee of Constitutional Law, by the vote of the serial number 359. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 359, from 130 for 106, against 7. The proposal was also accepted. The final motion for a vote on the commandment is the Committee on Budgets. In the 360 vote I launched, I ask who is in favour of the Committee on Budgets. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 360, of the Member present 131, for 127, against no one. The proposal was also accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion as other committees of the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Constitutional Law and Budget Committee. We now have a proposal from the debate on the extension of the deadline for discussion of 30 days. The petition was approved by the Interior Minister, so it is a voteable proposal that we will decide on it in the 361, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of extending the time limit for discussion. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 361, from the Member's 131 present for 105, against 12. This proposal has also been adopted. The deadline for discussing this press was extended by 30 days, i.e. to 90 days. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and I finish point 50. The next item is the item number
