ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u1	231. Oral inhalation I ask for the microphone of Mrs Aulická Jírovcová, who was drawn first in order to present her interpelation. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Allow me to present my interpellation. Dear Prime Minister, I intercede you on the basis of the material prepared for the government by Minister Dienstbier on the possible gradual ban on the placing of children under three years of age and then gradually until the child's seven years of age into institutional care and the submission of a proposal for legislation on the unification of social prevention services, services providing residential care to children, services of socio-medical or educational and other services for vulnerable children and their families under one department. We have already recorded this effort on the Committee on Social Policy with Minister Marksová. For a larger number of committee members across the political spectrum, this plan has not been seen with a positive opinion. The Minister argued that we are the only state in the European Union who does not have this care under one ministry. The question is, however, what does it mean for the states that have taken such measures? If, for example, we are talking about the Slovak Republic where this unification took place, there is a great will to restore the system to its original state, because the current state is becoming unbearable. After abolishing the possibility of placing children under three years of age into institutional care, whether they wanted to or did not want to, employees of these facilities had to switch to foster care because they simply had no one to care for the children placed in these facilities. I'll just give you a few statistics from our Republic. Temporary foster parents are currently 558 and children placed in foster care 559. According to the data of the counties as at 31. 12. 2015 is the Czech Republic a total of 5 377 children suitable for adoption and the total number of foster parents is 738. Dear Prime Minister, how do you want to proceed in the preparation of this legislation when the current state of search, preparation, training and accompanying foster families is not well established, especially for a transitional period from the legislative side? Where do you want to place children who have a disability or some disability and the foster parents are usually not interested in them? [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] And how do you want to place the necessary number of high-quality and adequately educated foster parents for these children? Do you realize that these are the most vulnerable people who cannot defend themselves? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u3	Thank you, and I'd like to ask the Prime Minister for a response. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u4	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, first of all I would like to say that I am not a follower of fundamentalist solutions. I'm not a follower, and that's what I said this morning, a black and white world view. And when I hear suggestions that something should be banned, I really for a very long time wonder if such a thing is really necessary and if such a thing is really necessary. However, I think it is necessary to look at the issue of institutional care for children in the Czech Republic as well as how young children are concerned. When I refer to what the United Nations says about child support, it states: "In line with the prevailing opinion of experts, care for young children, especially children under the age of three, should be carried out in a family-type environment. Exceptions to this rule may be permitted in cases where this would mean the division of siblings or in cases where an emergency location or placement is intended for a very short duration with planned re-integration into the family or a transition to another suitable long-term solution.' So much for the UN. I must say that in recent years there has been a significant decline in the number of children who are placed in facilities for children under the age of three. In the Czech Republic, we have about 30 children's homes for children under the age of three - those are former nursing homes. For the record, in 2014, their capacity was used from around 80 per cent. The impact on the decline in the number of children placed in these facilities was the development of foster care for a transitional period, which allowed children to spend their first weeks and months of life in a family environment, even in situations where their parents cannot care for them for some serious reason. The serious negative effects of institutional care on the development of the child have been demonstrated by a number of studies. A number of studies say that the short-term stay of a child in institutional care may result in some restrictions on the development of certain brain structures. This means that there are studies that say that staying particularly small children in institutional care can have negative consequences for them. Therefore, the efforts of the Czech government, but also a number of other governments, are aimed at reducing the number of children, especially the smallest ones placed in constitutional facilities. This interest was also confirmed by a national strategy for protecting the rights of the child approved by the Government in 2012. Of course, the most important prerequisite - and now I really don't want to talk about some legal frameworks, some administrative limits. Let us discuss how we will create the prerequisites for children not to be placed in constitutional facilities with us, or to be placed there only in the last row if any other solution fails. That is why I think it is important that there be help and support for the original families. I think that's the basic thing. Help and support for the original families, so that they can take care of the children. That is why the government is also working, among other things, on the preparation of the social housing law, because it turns out that this is an inappropriate situation in terms of housing, one of the most common reasons for which children are being taken away from our families. This means, for social reasons, from the point of view of inadequate housing care. Another important feature of the care system for vulnerable children is also foster care in the form of foster care, foster care for a temporary period of time, or guardianship. I think it is important that there is also an effective network of services, including lightening and residential services. But I am convinced that the use of residential services should be the last option in cases where the child's family is unable to help or place the child in foster family care. I think it must also be said that there are such cases. If we look at today's situation in children's homes under three years of age, we have about 30 of these facilities, as I mentioned. These facilities now have a capacity of about 1,500 seats. As of December 2014, there were more than 1,200 children placed here. Today, around a thousand workers work in these facilities in the Czech Republic. The trend is decreasing in terms of placing children in these facilities. While 2,133 children were placed there in 2011, 1,606 were placed there in 2014. This means that the social situation of these children is managed by placing them in foster family care and only in cases where this is not possible are these residence facilities used.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u5	Thank you. Madame, would you like to ask an additional question? Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u6	Thank you, Prime Minister. I am rather sorry that Mr Dienstbier's resort has prepared statistics on nonprofit organizations for you, because they are unfortunately talking about the fact that institutional care is not good for those children, but unfortunately it is not, and we cannot talk like that. The Committee on Social Policy visited A nursing home in Most, which is the only nursing home in the Ústí Region. It's 100% filled. And if you ask the headmistress how many children are visited, which are placed there, then actually almost none. And the only children who are visited are mostly handicapped. And the handicapped ones here are probably the most, somehow disabled, etc., it doesn't matter whether they're healthy, physically. These kids just don't want foster parents. Statistics indicate that foster care requirements are largely up to five years of age, a major ethnic girl. With disabilities accept foster parents only 6,10 foster parents (?) and others state that they want children without disabilities. [[Time warning]] I'll just add that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u7	I'm sorry, but your time. Thank you, and I'd like to ask the Prime Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u8	Thank you. I have also had the opportunity in recent years to visit several children's homes for children under the age of three, i.e. former nursing homes. First of all, I want to thank the people who work there because it's hard work, it's emotionally very demanding work, it's not easy at all. And I'm not one of those people who would question the need to have the capacity of such devices here. What is important is that it is the capacity that corresponds to those cases where we do not find better care for children than staying in such a children's home for children under the age of three. Because, in my opinion, the child's interest must be a priority for us, that is to find the best conditions for him. We can certainly agree that smaller facilities, community facilities, alternative family care creates an environment that is closer to the form of a traditional family than larger residential facilities. However, there are situations where these facilities are necessary and are the only practical solutions available. The honourable Member has already mentioned this. It is a case of serious illness of a child, it is a case of children with disabilities, unfortunately it is also a case of children from some ethnicities who are not interested in foster care, there is a problem of siblings. When there are more siblings, it is, of course, difficult to place them in foster family care, and then such facilities of the residential type are the only reasonable solution to avoid family division. So I think it is necessary for us to have adequate capacity for residential facilities in the future, but it is not a priority care that we would like to provide to children who cannot be with their families. We should focus primarily on supporting existing families. And if this is not possible for some reason, the family does not work, then it is necessary to look for alternative family care options, and only ultimately, if there is no other solution, to have sufficient capacity here for children to be placed in these residential facilities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u9	Thank you, and I would like to address Mrs Bohdalová's microphone to present her interview to the Prime Minister on the capacity building of nursery and primary schools. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u10	Good afternoon, Madam Vice-President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. A few weeks ago, here in the Chamber of Deputies, we approved an amendment to the Education Act concerning children in preschool facilities. We have approved the last year of kindergarten as compulsory and right to kindergarten since two years from 2020. Yesterday, the Minister recorded success in the Senate because this law passed through the Senate. I wanted to interpel you today, Prime Minister, because we hear from the opponents of this law that we accept these laws, but we do nothing to expand the capacity of kindergarten schools. I would like to ask if the steps that I know the government is doing have been shown somehow in the availability of kindergarten and primary schools. And I know that demographic developments change every year, something different happens every year. The important thing is that in 2020, mothers will be able to be those born in the weakest demographics, and kindergarten schools may have a problem with occupancy at that time, and that is why there is a possibility for two-year-olds here since 2020. But it's all gonna take money. Does the government have secured or promised these funds? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u11	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u12	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the reality in our country was that by 2006, 2007, but in principle, the economic crisis that came at the turn of 2008 and 2009 existed in particular at the Ministry of Finance real subsidy programmes that supported municipalities that needed to increase the capacity of primary schools, primary schools to repair or build completely new schools. Then the cuts came, the programs were really empty and for many years there was a situation in the Czech Republic where municipalities and cities had no relevant grant title that they could use. This means that when they had a problem with the capacity of kindergartens, primary schools, there was actually no place to ask, because the programme existed systemically at the Ministry of Finance, but there were no budget funds there every year, so it was really useless. I am glad that our government has also managed to change the situation in the light of demographic developments. This demographic development is therefore linked not only to the strength of individual population years, but also to the situation on the labour market, to the way people move, as they move from large cities to their surroundings. So we have a number of cities and municipalities in the Czech Republic that need to increase the capacity of kindergartens and also need to increase the capacity of primary schools. At this point, we actually have three basic paths through which municipalities and cities can raise funds. It's not that we're planning anything, most of these things are already working. I just want to remind you that during more than two years of our government 138 new kindergartens were opened and the capacity of kindergarten schools increased by more than 12,000 seats. Where, then, is it possible to raise funds? The first source is the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, and there is the programme Development of teaching capacities of kindergarten and primary schools established by local authorities. The programme should provide a total of CZK 1.5 billion by 2021, with the CZK 700 million being distributed between 2014 and 2016. The second program works at the Ministry of Finance. This is to support the development of the reconstruction of the material technical base of regional schools in the vicinity of large cities. The aim of this programme is to expand existing capacities, upgrade or build new school facilities in areas affected by the growth of residential housing and the infrastructure of municipalities is not enough. This is a programme that will therefore also work in the coming years. It is expected that around CZK 1.6 billion would be paid in the following period. The third important area is the Integrated Regional Operational Programme, which is European funds - Priority axis 2, Specific Objective 2.4. Increasing the quality and availability of infrastructure for education and lifelong learning. Among other things, it is envisaged that pre-school education capacities can be built, possibly for basic education in specific cases. So summarized and underlined, there are three subsidy programmes today, from which funds can be raised to expand the capacity of kindergarten schools, but also primary schools. At the previous government meeting, we discussed the need to set up the coordination of these subsidy programmes very well, so that information is transmitted here and that these funds are targeted at those municipalities that I really need help with. This means that we do not build new capacities in places where we know that there will not be such a dramatic need in the coming years. At the same time, I confirm what was said here a little while ago. Some critics argue that government efforts to support capacity increases in kindergartens by arguing that demographic developments lead to no need for kindergartens in the coming years. I've been there in the '90s. In the 1990s, it was also argued that kindergartens would not be needed, a number of municipalities and cities, those unreasonable, kindergartens closed, often sold buildings. And then, of course, the citizens wondered why they couldn't put their children in kindergarten. Because preschools were often canceled and sold out. I would hate for us to repeat such mistakes. At the same time, if there are overcapacity in existing conditions, then there is the possibility of reducing the age from which a child can be put into kindergarten, and in this direction the approved school law has set out. So I think this is the way in the right direction. [[Attention on time.]] So these relaxed capacities will gradually be able to be filled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u13	I'm sorry, Prime Minister. I apologize to all of you for this kind of intervention, but allow me to welcome to the guest gallery the delegation of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Discipline and Immunity of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of Romania. The delegation is led by Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Ciprian-Nicolae Nica. [[A round of applause for Members present.]] Madam, I ask you whether you want to ask an additional question. It's not like that. Now, to the microphone, please, Mrs Fischerová, to present her interview to the Prime Minister on the matter of Czechio. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u14	Good afternoon, Prime Minister. Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, my subject is prosaic, because it has appeared mostly in the media lately. And I want to ask you this, Prime Minister. I wonder where it came from, this idea. I was mostly surprised that during the government negotiations some ministers were surprised, and of course it is a thing that might catch on, perhaps not. I'm interested in how this title will continue. Because I enjoy languages, I know how it sounds in other languages. And when I go somewhere, usually when they don't understand me Czech Republic, they call me Czechoslovakia, and that's pretty clear where we come from. That is why I want to ask, first, where it came from, what will be the next step. When I saw the opinions of various ministers in the media, but also people from business or representatives of various organizations, institutions, I would say that we find it more complex than abroad. And then another question for me. Because if you enter this word, it should be in English, if I understand it so well, it'll underline to you that it's not a word that's consistent with English grammar. This is the brief history of this and your opinion, Prime Minister, of how you stand up to this new designation after years of independent Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u15	I'll thank you and ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u16	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, above all, we do not change the name of our country. Our country continues to be called the Czech Republic and, naturally, the government would be the last to change any ambition. Two. We are discussing the question of the translation of the one-word geographical name of the Czech Republic. That name, when it appeared, I didn't really think it was something that might be home to us. Strangely enough, it happened. The geographical expression Czechia has been used in the Czech Republic for many years. So it is about how we let the world know the correct translation of the geographical name of the Czech Republic in foreign languages. And that's actually what this is about. So we're not changing the name of our country. The name Czech Republic will continue to be used. His English translation will continue to be used and we are now talking about completing the formal codification of how the geographical name of the Czech Republic will be translated officially, which has already been domesticated in our home. So the point is to add this official translation to the nomenclature database maintained by the United Nations. With regard to the use of that geographical one-word name, I must say that a large part of the countries use that name. The Czech Republic is one of the few countries that does not have the geographical one-word name formalized in some way. The use of a one-word name has a number of practical benefits. This is a simpler identification of the country abroad. This is related to the reasons for the promotion. The one-word name provides greater flexibility for the economic, destination, cultural and sporting marketing of the country, so that it is clearly distinguishable in the international community. Of course, the practical consequences can be the use of a short name on jerseys in sport as part of the log. For one thing, it is also very good that we have a stable translation of the geographical name next to the name of the formal Czech Republic, because different incorrectly created names are used. This means that the Czech Republic should give a clear signal in this context. The Czech Language Institute has confirmed the name of the Czech Republic and its language mutation as the only correct term, and as far as I know, language scientists have not changed their mind in the last 23 years. So it's not a new discussion. On this subject, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs returned after a period of years. The use of the short name Czech Republic does not limit the use of the formal name Czech Republic and in legal contexts and on formal occasions the formal name Czech Republic and its official translations will naturally continue to be used. The honourable Member asked what the next step would be. Political support for this form of translation of the one-word geographical name of the Czech Republic was expressed by constitutional officials at their meeting, i.e. the President of the Republic, the Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate, the Foreign Minister, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence. This was therefore the outcome of the negotiations of constitutional officials and, on the basis of this meeting and this political declaration, the Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek will prepare material for information to the government, with the government addressing this issue. The Minister will describe the whole genesis there, including the opinions of relevant experts, language scientists on this matter and, after the Government has discussed this information, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will submit an official proposal to the relevant UN database. This means that the State Department will then request notification of the shortened name to the United Nations database. So very briefly the answer to this interpelation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u17	Thank you. The honourable Member will ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u18	Thank you again for your word. Dear Prime Minister, you have not exhausted your answer to what I completely wanted to know. I am mostly interested in the fact that there was no more detailed debate on this subject. As I understand it came from the Castle when you appointed constitutional officials when you met, but I think it would deserve a bigger public debate. So what horizon do you see? I'd still see it as an open topic. I also confess voluntarily that even the Czech Republic, which is already commonly used, is as if generalized, I prefer not to use the Czech Republic even in Czech. But I do know that the Czech Language Institute accepted this. So, please, when this goes on in the English language, as I mentioned, this has not yet been legally agreed that it would be an English word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u19	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u20	Thank you. I'll confess without torture. I also use the Czech Republic much more often than the Czech Republic. But the concept of the Czech Republic has been domesticated in the last few years. It is generally used in the media. It is also used very often by citizens. Even abroad from time to time, they try to express our name in one language. It turns out different. This may have encouraged the Foreign Minister to come up with this initiative. Surely no one will force anyone to use which of these alternatives, whether to use the official name of the Czech Republic Czech Republic, or the one-word name of the Czech Republic. The point is that we really have an official translation. I thank the Member for her warning, which concerns the opinion of the correct grammar in English. I will certainly warn the Minister of Foreign Affairs that this matter will also be dealt with by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u21	Thank you. And now I give the floor to the next in line, and that is Mr Ladislav Šincl, who will bring his interpelation to the Prime Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, I'll give you a riddle at the beginning. He has a college degree, iron nerves, and a salary he can barely support his family with. That is why many have other jobs. They matter how our children will be educated and how educated our future generations will be. Who's that? I'll give you a hint. He's a Czech teacher. Approximately 250,000 people work in Czech education. The claims on them are constantly increasing mainly with regard to ongoing inclusion, the upcoming career order and other tasks. At the same time, their salaries are barely rising at all. The situation is so serious that the vast majority of graduates of teaching schools prefer to work elsewhere than in our schools, because they can find better paid jobs in other fields. In addition, a number of existing teachers started looking for jobs elsewhere due to low salaries. Thanks to this state, more and more schools in the Czech Republic are gradually struggling with a small number of quality experts. I recently met with a former teacher in my parliamentary office today and asked him why he no longer works in education. He told me that he always enjoyed teaching him and wanted to do it, but today he gets a higher salary than he does as a teacher, so there was nothing to deal with. Dear Prime Minister, I think we agree that education is one of the most important areas that the government has to pursue. With regard to the healthy development of our society in terms of social, cultural, economic, quality and available education, it is undoubtedly its main pillar. The teachers themselves are responsible for quality education, which also needs to be paid. Therefore, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you how teachers' salaries have developed in our country, because the current situation seems to me to be very unsatisfactory. My second question would then point to your outlook for the future, i.e. how teachers' salaries will develop in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u23	Thank you, and I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u24	Thank you. Dear Member, as has already been said here, the salary situation in education is not satisfactory. This is linked to the fact that in recent years, the remuneration of education workers has not developed in an even way, has not been developed within some system measures, but rather was a one-off step, such as in 2011, when pay rates for pedagogical workers were adjusted in order to increase the initial salaries of people who came to school. However, this, of course, came across the limit of funds that were then devoted to the measure, because the two billion crowns available at that time could certainly not allow for any tariff reform used for remuneration in the school system. I would very much like us to take advantage of the current situation that we are in. The Czech economy is growing, tax revenues from public budgets are growing significantly. We have low unemployment. Last year, the public budget deficit was about four tenths of a percent, which means we were among the countries that managed the lowest deficit within the European Union. And in this situation, when the economy grows, tax revenues are growing, so there is an opportunity for us to remedy the problems of the remuneration of public sector employees where we feel the biggest problem. In order to provide quality education, we need well-prepared and motivated teachers. In the current situation, in terms of the average salary that is in school today, we certainly cannot talk about good motivation. One of the instruments that the government has at its disposal is, of course, the issue of tariff salaries, that is, a tariff rate, a tariff table. The government may decide to amend this tariff table and increase tariff salaries. It is, of course, the surest way to get these funds to employees in education. In the past two years, we have tried to increase tariff salaries for all the workers who work in education, which means both for educators and for those who work in those other professions. The increase was around three and three and a half percent, respectively, in terms of the increase in the fare. I am convinced that we should be more ambitious in the preparation of the next year's budget and that we should take advantage of the current good economic situation to increase remuneration in two areas in a more pronounced way. Firstly, it concerns health care, where we have a big problem precisely because, in a situation where unemployment is low, nurses in particular receive more attractive offers on the labour market, which brings less demands, less stress than work in the health sector, often for equal or higher funds. We have quite a problem here. And we need to signal the health people that they should stay and that they shouldn't leave. That's where I think we should add more weight. However, I also think that we should give a clear signal about education, the remuneration of people who work in education, and even there should be a greater increase. I therefore support the proposal by the Minister of Education Valachová, who proposes that next year the wage tariff in education should be increased by 10% for employees in education, and therefore proposes to increase the budget chapter of the Ministry of Education accordingly. I want to confirm that this is one of the important priorities that we will now discuss within the coalition. We will also discuss this at the next government meeting, where we will have a debate on the convergence programme, which creates the conditions for preparing the entire state budget for next year. As Prime Minister, I will clearly support the proposal to achieve a higher tariff increase in education. Of course, it is important that we do not forget other public sector employees as well. That's where we're gonna suggest that the increase is at least five percent. But, of course, we'll see what happens to the government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u25	Thank you. Ambassador, would you like to ask an additional question? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u26	Thank you, Madam President. I am very pleased that your view is the same as mine and that the government is taking concrete steps that ensure the availability of education in the Czech Republic. But the problem is, at least according to the media performances, Mr. Finance Minister Andrej Babiš doesn't really count on you mentioned increases, which I would, of course, very much wish, and there isn't much to increase teachers' salaries. We believe that you will do everything you can to convince him in the future to have someone to teach our children in the future. The sad and demotivating thing for our teachers is that, compared to other college students also paid out of public funds, teachers' salaries are far below the salaries of doctors, lawyers, technicians or other university-educated workers, for example, in public administration. I firmly believe that you will put your mind to it, that teachers should have higher salaries and that it pays them to go to work and teach our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u27	Thank you. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. He won't react. Okay. Now, please, next in line, and this is Mr Petr Fiala, to present his interpelation on the issue of restrictions on tradesmen. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u28	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, in recent weeks, the Civil Democratic Party has repeatedly put forward a proposal to return the option to self-employed workers who use flat-rate spending, to apply a tax credit to their wives and children, because we do not think it is right for one person to be able to and another cannot only by how he records its costs. Our proposal was repeatedly rejected by the government coalition, and I have now noted some information that the Coalition Council has agreed on a very similar proposal. Well, I'm glad, of course, even though I have to ask why you didn't support our proposal. I assume it's only because of the principle that the Civil Democratic Party has filed it. However, what concerns me about this agreement is the related proposal to limit the amount of flat-rate spending to all. Now the limit for applying the flat rate is CZK 2 million from income. Your government, the Treasury Department, wants to put that ceiling on one million. I ask, Prime Minister, what makes businessmen so uncomfortable for your government that you invent one complication, one restriction after another. Are businessmen really such a source of problems, such a source of tax evasion that you have to constantly think about how to limit them in some way? Why doesn't the government simplify the tax system so that we don't get to the 122nd place in the world according to the World Bank? I also ask why there has been a change of heart in the CSSD. Here I would recall the year 2005 when the current Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek said: Poušály should lead to a simplification of business for self-employed people, because it will significantly reduce their accounting agenda, reduce the risk of possible cost-discrediting, as it sometimes happens. So much Jan Mládek about ten years ago. And now it seems that social democracy has significantly changed its view of flats, tradesmen, and is trying to complicate their lives. Then what is it, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u29	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u30	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that spending flats in tradesmen have increased at a time when the government was led here by social democracy. This was 2005-2006. At that time, expenditure flats for tradesmen increased, but at the same time, it was also true that tradesmen were doing so-called. the minimum tax precisely because there was a combination of a minimum tax and a higher tax flat rate. It is simply because the system is now such that the state budget does not stand on tax from self-employed persons, the state budget is based on the tax paid by the employees to whom the tax is being levied without anyone discussing it, and the state budget is based on the value added tax paid by all citizens when they purchase and is based on excise duties. That's the main revenue of the state budget. The tax that has been levied on self-employed workers in recent years has certainly fallen significantly, and today it is in the order of two three billion crowns a year. That means the Zo is not a significant income from the state budget. So, when the flats were raised during 2005, 2006, they were subsequently raised under the Government of Topolánkův, but at the same time the minimum tax was abolished, which led to a dramatic decline in the collection of income tax from self-employed persons. The fall was so dramatic that even the right-wing government, where the ODS was, canceled the discount and tax advantage under the so-called "ODS," in 2013. an anti-deficit package. This means that the right-wing government itself canceled the child discount on businessmen in a situation where she lacked money for the state budget. Of course, this withdrawal is not fair because it creates an inequality between childless taxpayers and dependent taxpayers. And it is clear here that sooner or later we will have to agree to settle the conditions, which means that the child tax reductions will also be returned to those who are self-employed. These are discounts on the child and also discounts on the wife. However, at the same time, it is important to ensure that the tax collection in this area does not completely collapse, and therefore, within the framework of the debate that we are debating in the coalition about the return of the tradesmen to children and wives, at the same time we are debating the reduction of the limit to spending flats to one million crowns from the present two million crowns. I would like to point out that the limit is set very differently in Europe where flat rates are applied. Most flat rates were introduced into tax systems to represent significant administrative simplifications for small entrepreneurs. The introduction of flat-rates, there was no tax optimization, but the reason was to reduce administrative claims for small entrepreneurs, so that they did not have to provide complex proof of expenditure, but could apply simplified tax returns through flat-rate. In Slovakia, for example, the flat-rate expenditure is set at EUR 5,000, i.e. 135 thousand crowns, i.e. this is a much lower rate of setting the ceiling than is currently used in the Czech Republic in the amount of CZK 2 million. This potential reduction from two million to one million crowns is not random, but is also aimed at unifying this ceiling with the amount of turnover from which the taxpayer becomes the payer of value added tax. This means that this should be set in a similar way for the future. So, yes, we're having a debate in the coalition about getting this situation straightened out. Yes, we want to change the situation that was introduced in 2013 under the anti-deficit package by the right-wing government at the time. Yes, we aim to ensure that it has as little impact as possible on the state budget, so that it does not deprive us of funds, and therefore we want to accompany this measure by reducing the overall ceiling for applying the flat rate from CZK 2 million to CZK 1 million. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the Ministry pays lower contributions to social and health insurance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u31	Thank you. The Member wishes to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u32	So I really understood from this that the proposal of the Civil Democratic Party was not accepted simply because it was the proposal of the Civil Democratic Party, otherwise it was the right one. But I'd like to ask you, Prime Minister, if I understand you correctly, that million crowns limit spending flats, that's like the first step. Then you start thinking that it's actually not enough either, and you're going to go back to the minimum tax. Is that really the intention of your government? And wouldn't it be more reasonable if you said yourself that the revenue from this is really small, to let those businessmen be, not to always think of restrictions and to focus on those where there is really a big tax optimization, and these are big companies, multinational corporations and more and more? After all, today the Minister of Finance spoke about this for the first time at a press conference. I'm glad the Finance Minister noticed what we've been saying for a long time, that the tax evasion isn't happening in that segment of businessmen and small businessmen, but it's quite different.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u33	I'll ask the Prime Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u34	We, honourable Members, are trying to clog the holes that exist in our tax system. We are therefore trying to reduce tax evasion in order to prevent tax fraud, and we will continue to work on that. Although the right did not agree to this, we have introduced control reports on value added tax. Although the right did not agree to this, we have passed the e-booking law. I hope it can be triggered as announced by the Ministry of Finance, December 1st. And, of course, we want to look at all forms of aggressive tax optimization, including who uses offshores here in the Czech Republic, who tends to use tax havens here in the Czech Republic, and all these subjects must be paid sufficient attention to the specialized financial authority. [[15.20 hours]] I just don't know if from the right side it's good to bring up the topic of the tax discounts on children and the wife at the CFI, because, I've already said it here once before, it was the right-wing government that canceled these discounts for businessmen. It wasn't my government or the last social democratic government. It was the right-wing government that canceled those discounts with the argument that it needed money for the state budget. So it seems a little hypocritical to me now that the Civil Democratic Party is coming and saying - we're going to give it back to the tradesmen. So if we agree on that, let's do it. But why do we have to pay them back? We wouldn't have had to pay them back if the right-wing government hadn't canceled those discounts. At the same time, it must be made clear that, as far as social and health insurance contributions are concerned, businessmen are on average doing less than employees. This includes a strong preference, which they already have in terms of public budgets. That's reality.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u35	Thank you for keeping time. And now, to Mrs Adamová's microphone, I ask her to give her interpellation to the Prime Minister on the matter of respect for the court's decisions. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u36	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Prime Minister, last Thursday the deadline until which, according to the final judgment of the District Court for Prague 1, ČSSD was to pay 337 million. CZK to former attorney Zdeněk Altner for services in the People's House dispute. Of course, I don't have to remind you of what this dispute was about and how it evolved. However, the court ruled quite clearly. It was only for social democracy that the terms of the contract with the lawyer would be laid down and signed. The determined remuneration was in line with the applicable laws and is commonly used. Although the judge admitted that only Zdeněk Altner, the Social Democrats, caused the 16-year term of the court, did not, according to her, prevent the disputed money from being placed in official custody. The ČSSD paid Altner only part of the reward in 2000 - 17 million. Crowns. She put the rest of the bounty in safekeeping. Of course, she never gave him any part of the People's House rent, even though she signed that promise. Although the amount due has climbed to dizzy heights, the ČSSD, like any other entity or individual in that state, must respect the final judgment of the court. I am not at all concerned with who your trial was conducted with, nor do I want to be Mr. Altner's attorney. I am concerned about the outcome of this lawsuit, and I would care about it, even if it were conducted with anyone else, if the result would be the same position of the CSSD as you stand for this judicial decision. Dear Prime Minister, will the ČSSD act as it does to the party claiming the rule of law and which also covered its programme by the 2013 elections with the slogan "we will enforce a well-functioning state," suits and belongs, or will it continue to signal to the citizens of the Czech Republic that even the final decision of the court may not be decisive for them and that it should not respect that debts do not have to be paid? Remember what kind of signal you're sending to the public. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] How can you ask people to want and respect judgments of the courts and trust Czech justice when you don't do it yourself? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u37	Thank you, Madame. And I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u38	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, debts have to be paid, and no one is questioning that at all. But we didn't borrow any money from Mr. Altner. We are faced with a court decision that is largely unprecedented and which imposes social democracy to pay for services that she never received. That's the big problem that's here. Of course, I accept that if we borrow money from Mr Altner, it is indisputable that we should return the money. But here's a trial that lasts 16 years and hasn't finished yet. And it is not possible for social democracy or any citizen of the Czech Republic to give up their rights in advance. I also want to say that social democracy in 2000 immediately after the confirmation of entitlement to its traditional seat paid attorney Altner more than 50 miles at that time. Crowns. So it is not true that social democracy would not pay Mr Altner anything. We paid him over 50 miles back then. CZK, this was a significant financial amount in 2000. It is not our fault that Mr Altner is still suing two other lawyers for this matter. That is, social democracy is not the only one Mr Altner is suing, but there are lawyers at the time, with whom he cooperated and who are suing for part of the 50 miles. The crowns that were then composed of social democracies. Social democracy over the course of 16 years rejected further claims, demands that Altner gradually came up with. She did not acknowledge his claims and, in all cases, except for this one, Altner was unsuccessful in court. Just a reminder, ten years ago, he demanded even 20 billion for his services to the Czech Social Democratic Party. Crowns. Social democracy will proceed in accordance with the laws of the Czech Republic. We've called the Supreme Court. We have asked for a delay in the enforcement of the decision, respectively. to defer legal power, i.e. The litigation on this matter has not yet ended, and we use the rights that we have available under the laws of the Czech Republic, simply because we do not consider the judgment to be correct and we do not consider it fair. The appeal procedure at the Municipal Court in Prague lasted 12 years. For 12 years, the Municipal Court in Prague decided only on the basis of steps and obstructions by former attorney Altner. Even this city court stated in its decision that the extension of the appeal proceedings for 12 years was not the fault of social democracy, but was solely due to the actions taken by Advocate Altner. Yet it is not possible for only one party to pay for the 12-year extension of this trial. That sentence is not fair, and that is why social democracy has called to the Supreme Court and, of course, we will fully submit to the Supreme Court's decision on this matter and we will proceed in accordance with the law. At this point, we are fulfilling the execution orders from the creditors of former attorney Altner. We satisfy them in order to gain legal power. We have been contacted by entities to whom former Attorney Altner owes money. And in this situation, social democracy must proceed in this way. This will also suit the court's resolution, as we will gradually pay these claims and thus reduce the claim of former attorney Altner to social democracy. So that's the procedure we're voting for. It is a procedure in accordance with the laws of the Czech Republic. And I must say that I would not wish anyone to get into this situation when they are confronted with such clearly unfair judicial decisions and the unfair procedure with which social democracy is now confronted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u39	Thank you. The honourable Member wants to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u40	Thank you for the floor. So I'm going to ask you very briefly. Prime Minister, do you believe that the courts in the Czech Republic are functional and independent? And are our citizens supposed to believe that, too?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u41	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u42	I want to believe that the courts are independent. The Democratic State must count on it - and its functioning is conditional on the existence of independent justice, to which no other political power intensifies. Neither the Chamber of Deputies nor the Government nor any private or other political interests. This is, of course, the backbone of the democratic rule of law. But that does not mean that I believe in independent justice that I cannot argue with specific decisions made by specific courts or by specific judges in the process of finding the law. And once again, in this dispute, which is strongly mediated, we are not at the end of this dispute. We're in a decision-making process. It is precisely because we are not at the end that there are procedural rights that individual parties can take advantage of. And it is up to them whether or not they choose to exercise these rights. So the process is not over, it has not been completed by finding the law within our legal and constitutional system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u43	Thank you. That was Mrs Adamová's interpellation. Now allow me to load Mrs Berdychová's apology, who apologizes from today's meeting from 15 o'clock to the end of the negotiations for personal reasons. And now I beg Mr Zdeněk Soukup's microphone to present his interview on the MILOG - the minimum wage in Germany. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u44	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, today I will interpel the Czech Minister for the Law, which came out in Germany about a year ago. It's a minimum wage bill. How does this apply to the Czech Republic? MILOG, as the law says in short, also applies to companies from other countries that send their employees to German territory. I would still understand if it was a customer service from the Federal Republic of Germany. I can't believe this applies to a driver of a Czech truck just passing through German territory. During his stay there, the Czech employer must pay him at least a German minimum wage of 8.5 euros. Which is why I would like a higher salary for Czech employees. However, jumping increase is literally liquidation for Czech employers, as they claim. This is the reality of different economies. In the Czech Republic, some companies are in danger of being liquidated. There is an uncontrolled rise in wages. There is a risk of proportional wage distortion between professions. Such a truck driver sent with cargo to Western Europe would have twice the salary of a Czech teacher, reaching 140 percent of the salary of a Czech doctor. Moreover, MILOG also requires considerable administration in German. All of this goes against the main principles of the European Union. In breach of the law, German customs officers can fine up to half a million euros. Prime Minister, Czech entrepreneurs view MILOG as a protectionist measure to protect the German market. I know that about a year ago, the European Commission launched an invasion against Hungary, Poland and perhaps the Czech Republic. What's the result? What else can be done to protect Czech interests?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u45	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u46	Thank you. Madam, honourable Members, what has been mentioned here is indeed a problem. It is a problem which is already burdening our relations within the European Union today, which also affects Czech-German relations. The government is active in this matter. I'll get to that in a little while. However, I would like to stress that the problem is the scope of the legislation introduced in Germany. Of course, Germany has the right to introduce a general minimum wage. I am a follower of the role of minimum wage in society and in the economy, so I will certainly not deny the German Government the right to introduce a German-wide minimum wage. But the wage, as it was introduced in terms of its scope, complicates the situation significantly in a number of areas. The point is that the statutory obligation to pay the minimum wage applies not only to workers whose employment is governed by German law and to workers sent to work in Germany on the basis of the Posting of Workers Directive, but also applies to all foreign workers who are currently working on the territory of Germany, including workers in road international transport. This means, not only in road transport, but also in rail and inland waterway transport. Even in cases of pure transit of these employees through Germany. That is, if we have a carrier that only transports goods from the Czech Republic to France, then for the time it passes through Germany, its employees are subject to German minimum wage, German minimum wage provisions. So the problem is the spread of this provision, the problem is the inclusion of transport and even transit transport, and then the separate problem is the huge bureaucracy that is associated with the introduction of this measure. Because the German Government wanted to achieve full control, and if it wanted to achieve full control, it focused on a consistent obligation to fill out a report of the form, and this, of course, is a matter which increases the administrative burden. We've been questioning this thing from the very beginning. Both the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs have dealt with their counterparts. This topic was opened at meetings of the Council of the European Union with regard to transport ministers. I also discussed this issue at my meeting with the Federal Chancellor on 4 May last year. And, of course, there have also been joint initiatives by countries that are affected by this measure. For example, they together wrote to the Federal Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. At present, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of the Federal Republic of Germany, following pressure from other Member States, including the Czech Republic, has declared a moratorium on the application of the Act on minimum wage for pure transit until the compatibility of the Act on minimum wage by the European Union has been assessed. This means, therefore, that since 30 January last year, in cases of international transport with unloading, loading or transhipment on the territory of the Federal Republic of Germany, the obligations arising from this provision are enforced against foreign carriers, whether or not they are posting workers in a particular case, under a penalty of up to EUR 30 000 or EUR 500 000. This means a moratorium on clean transit has been introduced, but in these other cases these rules apply to our subjects. I must say that the Czech Republic is ready to intervene in possible proceedings before the Court of Justice in favour of interpreting that the application is contrary to European Union law. We will therefore see how the relevant legal proceedings will develop and whether there will be no amicable settlement in the negotiations between the European Commission and the Federal Republic of Germany in order to limit the scope of the German-wide minimum wage on carriers, especially in relation to carriers transiting only through Germany.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u47	Thank you. The Member wishes to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u48	You know, I was very surprised by one thing. We in the Committee on European Affairs have recently discussed the proposed directive of the European Parliament, which basically recommends applying this principle throughout Europe. Just for the record, it is known that the German government is going to take a similar step in Denmark, for example. And in Denmark, the minimum wage is 14.5 euros. So it basically has a domino effect, and we don't know where it's gonna stop.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u49	I'll ask the Prime Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u50	I think it is precisely in order to make it clear in what form countries should introduce similar provisions, so it is important that it is clear whether it is a German rule, as has been introduced, in accordance with the law of the European Union. This is what the European Commission's review, which I have already mentioned, started on 19 May last year, is important. The European Commission has initiated infringement proceedings against the Federal Republic of Germany and the European Commission is currently assessing Germany's response to the complaints addressed to Germany in this matter. It is therefore in the interest of the Czech Republic, but also of other countries, especially from the eastern part of Europe, that the European Commission should issue its opinion on this matter as soon as possible, so that the next steps taken by the European Commission in this matter are clear. And certainly the Czech Government will open this topic on the relevant forums to show the European Commission that we are interested in resolving this issue and to make it clear here how much the German directive violates the relevant treaties within the European Union. Our aim is to limit the impact of this provision on our carriers, especially as regards transit. But, of course, we will also strive to ensure that those restrictions also occur in cases relating to unloading, loading, transhipment in the territory of the Federal Republic of Germany.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u51	Thank you. Now, to the microphone of Mr Klučka, I ask that he present his interview with the Prime Minister on the government's strategy for the fight against drought. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u52	Thank you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, colleagues, who are patiently sitting here on oral interviews, I would first like to comment on the title. It doesn't exactly mark the whole problem, but the word struggle - we fight the enemy in particular, we fight crime, but we fight the drought. Sucho is a huge phenomenon that is currently accompanied by development not only in Europe but also in the world. Dryness is the cause of many problems of migration. It increases the migratory wave of people fleeing their homes precisely because they do not have drinking water. The Czech Republic is called the so-called roof of Europe. Let us remember that all waters flow from us to neighboring states. Those that fall in rain fallout, but also those that come from our country in the Czech Republic. We have built a system of dams, and it seems that it is not enough for us to be able to think slowly about further expansion of these buildings in order to hold water in our territory and have water available not only as drinking but also utility, especially for industry, for nuclear power plants and for other segments where we cannot do without it. We've been pretty good at dealing with things in the flood system. We're dealing with flood prevention. And I, Prime Minister, ask how the government, in connection with the flood situation at the moment, intends to deal with the drought and the future with enough water in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u53	Thank you. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u54	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, we have decided to start systematically focusing on the issue of drought, regardless of the fact that it was just last year when drought caused considerable damage. This isn't about the individual events we're experiencing, but it's about the whole thing. When we look at climate developments in recent years, we have ever higher temperatures here in the Czech Republic, and we have less and less rainfall. This is simply the trend that we are experiencing, and the government needs to respond to it. We've decided this is the way we're going. In the past, governments have focused mainly on the necessity of preventing floods. I'm sure it was the right thing to do. Since 1997, we have experienced nine floods, five of which have been extreme floods. The fight against floods has become an important objective of water operators and large funds have been provided for this. But the consequences of climate change have been paid much less attention. According to the average scenario of climate change, the capacity of existing surface and groundwater resources is projected to fall by one quarter over the following decades. It is therefore absolutely necessary to prepare a combination of adaptation measures in good time to reduce the negative consequences of climate change. So I agree that the fight against drought isn't exactly the ideal name. Rather, we are able to adapt to the climate change that we are experiencing. Partly, of course, we are also trying to confront him. But the point is to adapt and prepare for the situation that comes, responsibly. What was said here by Mr Klučka is true. We are more vulnerable than the surrounding states, because virtually all the water flows away from us to our neighbors. Our water resources depend on atmospheric collisions. As regards the available water supply per capita, the Czech Republic is one of the countries within the European Union that have the lowest of these amounts. Fortunately, so far we are using about half of these resources, and that is why this is no visible problem at the moment. The Ministry of the Environment prepared last year's conceptual document The Strategy for adaptation to climate change in the conditions of the Czech Republic. The government approved this adaptation strategy. A national climate change adaptation action plan is being developed, which should already include individual concrete measures, just what we are going to do. Measures for water retention in the landscape are crucial. From the careful farming of agricultural land through the cultivation of nature-near forest crops, the correction of degraded watercourses, the use of precipitation water in mansions and so on. In 2014, the Interministerial Commission called VODA-SUCHO was established by the agreement of the Ministers of Agriculture and Environment. The aim is to create a conceptual document to implement measures to reduce the consequences of possible drought. In July last year, the Commission presented material to the government Preparing measures to mitigate the negative effects of drought and water shortages. The aim is to start processing the long-term concept of security of protection of the Czech Republic against harmful effects of drought. The government approved the material in July last year. We have imposed on individual ministries to implement the measures proposed in this material, and the Ministry of Environment and Agriculture is to submit to the Government by 30 June next year a concept of protection against the consequences of drought in the Czech Republic based on experience from all the implemented measures. I am convinced that, as we have started the process, there are about 50 tasks for individual ministries, a large part of them being dealt with by the Ministry of Agriculture, there are synergies between several departments. And just to mention the key measures, there are three of them. The first measure should limit demand for water resources, improve the efficiency of the use of water resources. Further measures should regulate requirements for water resources in problematic periods and improve water resource planning. And the third measure should increase the amount and quality of water resources, which means gentle landscape management, the use of precipitation water and other measures that could really help us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u55	Thank you. The Member does not want to ask an additional question, so I would like to ask another one, and this is Mr Ondráček, to present his intervention on the Prime Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u56	Thank you, Madam President. As my colleague mentioned his name, my name is also interesting: Brain rejection. As I recall, Prime Minister, you recently met with representatives of the health unions, but it is not just the health unions, it is the trade unions and the Confederation of Industry and Trade and important entrepreneurs who say that we simply do not have the workforce, that we lack the workforce, that we lack the technicians, engineers, doctors. You promise to deal with this matter, and you can imagine that we could get such people abroad, and you would support it. I think next week you should be with us in the Hradec Králové Region, I think even in Jičín, where you would discuss this with us. I have a completely opposite experience when I am able to get doctors, technicians, and our Department of Asylum and Migration Policy of the Ministry of the Interior is doing everything for it, literally everything to keep neither of these qualified people from coming here. So we close the doors to doctors who would be able to stand up for the operating room immediately, work immediately, and they could replace those doctors who are so acutely missing and why we're closing some departments, but unfortunately, nothing like this is happening because OAMP is doing everything they can to make sure that these people, specifically from Ukraine, can't come. So I'd like to move more from words to actions. And I'm going to ask in the brief rest of the time what you can do specifically to ensure that educated people who want to live and work with us do not refuse, but rather that we create conditions for them to integrate into society and work with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u57	Thank you. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are dealing with a problem in the Czech Republic which is, of course, more pleasant than if we had high unemployment here. Today we are dealing with the problem reversed - we have low unemployment, which is somewhere above 6 percent in the Czech Republic, and we lack about 117,000 people for job vacancies, which are officially announced that it is possible to occupy them in the economy. This means that today we are in a situation where, above all, the private sector, in part, also the public sector is creating a much bigger job offer than at this moment, allowing us to occupy our labour market. That's one thing. Second thing. But at the same time, we still have over 400,000 people in the employment records, and we should primarily make sure that jobs are an opportunity for our citizens. This should be a policy of the government, which is why we focus on finding ways to activate the people we have in our employment records. That means, on the one hand, we have 400,000 or more than 400,000 people on the record, on the other hand, we have 117,000 job vacancies in the economy, and we have regions where unemployment is now around two or three percent. This is the example of Rychnovska in Hradec Region, where Škoda Auto is building a new investment and where it is very difficult to find new workers in the region. How to support, help? Since April, labour offices have started implementing a new programme. It is a contribution to commuting to work, that is, a person who is registered at the employment office for more than 12 months is entitled to have the employment office contribute to him for a certain period of time. With this pilot project, we are trying to promote labour mobility for people who remain in the register at the employment offices for a long time. It's a mobilization project. Of course, we are also looking for opportunities from the point of view of recruiting workers elsewhere, but it is very important here that the influx of people from abroad does not lead to wage dumping, because we cannot create unfair competition for our employees by, for example, bringing agency workers here through agencies. We've been through this in the past, and it hasn't always worked out so well. So, yes, we should focus on recruiting workers from abroad, but in those professions that we obviously and objectively cannot occupy from the point of view of our people, employees in the Czech Republic. The government has prepared a pilot project that has been implemented since November last year. We have prepared a special procedure for highly qualified staff from Ukraine. This may include doctors as well as other highly qualified employees, and the point is that, on the basis of the specific requirements of employers, these specific applications can be dealt with in an accelerated manner. We have allocated about 500 seats for such special highly qualified applicants from Ukraine on the basis of employers' demands, and once the project is completed, the sites will be filled, so we want to evaluate it and we will think about how we will continue. We are also discussing the issue of allowing for faster access of employees from Ukraine and to less skilled professions. But here I am very careful and I think that we should agree on the structure of the professions where we will allow such an accelerated regime, so that we do not really create problems on our labour market, and at the same time this will mean strengthening the capacity of our representative office in Ukraine so that we can manage these applications significantly faster than today. So I'm sure the government is preparing these projects, and we're already piloting one. We're not defending ourselves at all. We know that there is a strong demand from industry for new workforces, but at the same time we want to take into account our unemployed and strive to get as much of them back to the labour market as possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u59	Thank you. The Member wishes to ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u60	Thank you, Prime Minister. That's why I called it "brain rejection," because I'm concerned about those highly qualified people that you've put a doctor in. I think we can agree that we will not be looking for a doctor among those 400,000 people who are registered at the employment office, and even if someone were there and wanted to be a doctor, it would probably be a rather long process. I think that a doctor who needs an orthopedic surgeon specializing in large joints and has done dozens and hundreds of surgeries, for example, Kiev and anywhere else, in Kharkiv, can be of immediate benefit to our health care, and I would like to be able to get these people through the accelerated process you talked about, because if they decided they wanted to live and work with us, then why didn't I call it rejecting brains? If you're interested, I'll show you dozens of cases where OAMP does exactly the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u61	Thank you. Prime Minister, will you respond? You won't. So, to the microphone, Mrs Kovářová, to present her interpellation to the Prime Minister on the lack of blood donors. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u62	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, I originally wanted to interpel the Minister of Health Němeček, but unfortunately he is not often present. It's a social issue. If you watch Facebook at least once in a while, you know, sometimes there are statuses that inform on the case of a sick person waiting for a bone marrow donor and invite the public to register with a donor. There is no choice but to hope that there is a donor who will be helpful to a sick person. In this context, I thought about how we are doing on a national scale in blood donation and possibly other components. The finding is not entirely favourable, as far as I can judge on the basis of the articles I have found. Blood donors are largely missing among the young, there is a shortage, and that is, I would say, a huge problem. I wonder what the causes of the lack of donors are. Is it in our power to change the situation for the better? How to motivate the public appropriately? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u63	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u64	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have requested information from both the Ministry of Health and the MPSV on the basis of this interview. I have been informed that it has not been recorded as regards the situation in the supply of blood products to hospitals, their lack. It is a fact that in recent years there has been a systematic gradual decrease in the number of registered blood donors, but this has not yet affected the availability of medicinal products produced from human blood. Every year, the blood donors' records leave naturally mainly because of the age limit or because of the health restrictions of about six to eight percent of people, and of course it would be ideal for this loss of blood donors to be constantly replaced. The Ministry of Health has long sought to support actions to support blood donation in the Czech Republic. This donation is also supported under existing legislation, which regulates the conditions in particular from the point of view of the Labour Code. [[16.00 hours]] I think that when it comes to the issue of lack of blood donors, it is necessary to look for this motivation in principle outside employment legislation. That's where I think the matter is solved. It is based on the fact that blood donation is free, which means we have a principle that has been applied in this area for a long time and is a fact. And what I welcome is that health insurance companies, for example, provide blood donors with some above-standard services when they have it, for example, in their programmes. I think that neither the Ministry of Health nor the government is opposed to discussion and is not opposed to initiatives that could positively make the issue of blood donation visible and that could somehow increase the motivation for citizens to join blood donors. However, I want to reiterate the fact that, from the perspective of Czech health care, there has been no shortage of these products that would threaten the functioning of our healthcare system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u65	I thank and ask the honourable Member whether she wants to ask an additional question. It's not like that. In this case, I thank the Prime Minister and all interpellers and terminate the interpelling block on the Prime Minister. At this point, we're going to go into the interpelling block to the members of the government. In this case, Mr Radim Fiala, the first winning Member, who I do not see here, is failing his application, and I will ask another in turn, and that is Mr Kalousek. I ask him to give his interpellation to the excused Home Secretary. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u66	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear excused Minister of the Interior, this morning we discussed at an emergency meeting the facts from which many of us feel that the Police of the Czech Republic did not measure all the same metro and that the citizens of the Czech Republic did not have equality before the law during its proceedings from 28 to 30 March this year. In order to clarify this feeling, I asked you whether we could obtain information on how many citizens of the Czech Republic have been detained and perlustrated and how many citizens of other countries have been detained and perlustrated, especially citizens of the People's Republic of China. I understand that you do not have this information at your disposal right now, and I am sure glad that you are excused, because I should receive that answer in writing and I hope very strongly that I will get it quite specific. I assure you, then I will introduce the entire Chamber of Deputies to the answer. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u67	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Radim Holeček, Mr Radim Holeček, is next in line to present his intervention on the excused Minister Valachová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u68	Madam Secretary, I am interested in the organisation of sport and its financing, especially because there are many children in our Ústí Region who, due to the poor financial situation of their families, cannot sport their dream sport in sports clubs. It is a serious problem that the Ministry of Education has not dealt with in the long term. This year, MŠMT announced a new program number eight Organization of Sport in Sports Clubs and Physical Unities. We met at a conference on this topic in the House. MŠMT pays up to 280 miles to the clubs. Crowns. Approximately accounts for about a thousand crowns for one sports kid. That sounds really small to me. Why does so little money flow to this program? Your authority is to redistribute the total amount of 3.7 billion. Crowns. Why don't you provide more? Is this about the sports representation program? And while we are on this sport representation program, 70 percent of it is already paid out this year, and behold, the most money is allocated to the Autoclub of the Czech Republic. Is car moto sport more important than hockey, football, swimming, athletics and so on? Supporting car-moto sports is not helping children and youth sports. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u69	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr Holečka. He will also be answered in writing. The fourth interview will be presented by Mr Daniel Korte, who will intersect the absent Minister Andrej Babiš on lying about Chapi's nest II. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u70	Thank you. Minister, on 10 March this year, in your absence, which is notorious, I gave an interview concerning your four incompatible, mutually exclusive statements about the Chapi Nest case. I received your written reply dated 31 March, quoting: "I provided answers to your questions in my speech to the 43rd emergency meeting of the Chamber of Deputies." [[emphasis on verb shape]] And so on. Although I tried to listen carefully to your almost two-hour speech, what I was doing, I didn't catch the answers to my questions because you didn't provide them. That's why I have no choice but to put them down again. When did you lie, Minister? First of all, did you lie when you repeatedly said you weren't lying or stealing? Or, second of all, when you claimed that there were several audits carried out on the stork's nest with no fault? Or thirdly, when you bragged about the stork's nest being your best project? Or, fourthly, when you said, "it's not mine, it's some company that belongs to a holding company"? In which of these statements did you lie? I'm warning you, I'm gonna ask those questions over and over again until you confess to at least one of them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u71	I thank Mr Korte, who will also be answered in writing. Mr Ludvík Hovorka, who will interpel the minister present this time, Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický, on the recycling of Vrbětice rockets, will present the fifth interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u72	Hello. Dear Minister, 13 7. The test operation of Bochemie was started in the area of the ammunition warehouse Vrbětice and in January 2015 profesor Danihelka commented on an updated safety report. I have no information regarding the evaluation of the one-year test operation authorised in the building permit issued by the Military Building Office in Olomouc. The management of Vlachovice informed the petents in April 2015 that the Bochemie plant for the recycling of rocket fuel cannot produce without an approved updated safety report. Since then, no further information has been available on this updated security report, if any. Similarly, it is not known whether the test operation of the recycling plant has been evaluated at all and with which result. If I remember correctly, the building permit was issued only for a period of test operation that had already expired. During the meeting at the Committee on Petitions and during the meeting in the Chamber of Deputies, I repeatedly requested that the circumstances concerning the issue of a building permit or the issue of a test permit be examined. You have stated that these matters are under investigation or investigation. As far as I know, the lease is due to be terminated by 31. 10th of this year. In response to the interpelation, it was said that the activity of the production plant for the treatment of residues of stored rocket fuel was permitted. According to information from Vrbětic citizens, however, production in the recycling plant is still running, especially at night. How is it possible that the production plant is still running, another spent rocket fuel is transported into the premises, which is being converted into chloristan and exported again at night? What is the amount of rocket fuel and ammonium chlorate in the area in Vrbětice? Is there an updated plant security report? Can you provide it? Has the Military Building Institute evaluated the testing operation of the recycling plant and with what result? [[Attention on time.]] And has the right to issue a building permit already been verified? Thank you, and if you can, provide me with information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u73	I thank Mr Hovorka and ask the Minister of Defence for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to state the following on this procedure. First, the test operation was authorised, on the basis of which a final inspection was carried out in September 2013, and following the results of this inspection was issued by the Office of the Ministry of Defence's State's expert oversight of the approval of the use of the specified objects for the recycling of spent rocket fuel. As part of the procedure for granting the approval, the Regional Hygiene Station of the Zlín Region, the municipality of Vlachovice or the Czech Mining Authority were also mentioned and these bodies were, of course, familiar with the nature of the complex where the house is situated. In particular, in the case of the Czech Mining Authority, they should also assess whether the obligations arising from the relevant legislation, in particular the obligations relating to, for example, a safe distance, are fulfilled. [[16.10 hours]] Those entities did not apply any comments in the context of the proceeding. This confirmed that the buildings used by the company Bochemie, a. s. are at a safe distance from other buildings in the premises of the ammunition warehouse near Vrbětice, taking into account the possible fulfilment of these objects by ammunition and meet other legal requirements. In the framework of the construction procedure, or the procedure for granting the approval of a procedure, the infringement of the legislation was never contested either. And what it looks like at the moment. The lease agreements, and this is certainly an important circumstance, the lease agreements on the basis of which Eruca Technologies, s. r. o., is the legal successor of Bochemie, a. s., the buildings in the premises of the ammunition warehouse near Vrbětic, were concluded for a fixed period until 31. 12th of this year, which shall be automatically extended by one calendar year if they are not expelled until 31. the 10th year in question. On the basis of the material approved by the government, it is assumed that Eruca Technologies will cease operations in the entire area of the ammunition warehouse near Vrbětice. VTÚ, s. p., will terminate contracts by 31 October this year and the rent will expire on 31 October. 12th of this year. In addition, at the time of the conclusion of the lease contracts, the company had to be aware of the risk that its lease agreement might not be extended and its activity could therefore be terminated without giving any reason. Perhaps one last point, so this is about the current operation or the current conditions in which the company operates there. I must say that this is regulated primarily by the opinion of the intervention commander, who continues to exercise the real executive power in that area still. And there was allowed partial operation of the recycling plant on the basis of his decision and he is the only person competent to authorise or ban activities until the end of the IRS in connection with explosions. So if, Mr President, you need any more detailed information about the current situation or what led the intervention commander, please contact him. Now, and that's more precisely what you asked, traffic is allowed there by the strike commander from 4:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. That is why these citizens feel - and justified - that they are working there. But it's not something that goes beyond the commander's consciousness. They bring solid rocket fuel from Rataj near Kroměříž and then the product goes to Ostrava. Nothing is stored there. So it's based on a kind of flow method. So they work there in the night shift, nothing is stored there, and the rent ends with this calendar year. That's about all in a nutshell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u75	Thank you, Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u76	Dear Minister, thank you for the answers. I think it's good news for the citizens of Vrbetic if everything is filled with government material and the contract is terminated by 31. 10. However, I would still like to ask about the matter of examining the procedure of the Military Building Office, which apparently, according to available reports, allowed the production of Bochemie at that time precisely with the fact that the plant is located on the premises of the former ammunition warehouse. Therefore, nowhere in the authorisation procedure was there any mention that ammunition was stored in neighbouring buildings. And that is why I think that there was a mistake in this building office, and that is why the doubts were raised and the procedure was also examined. So I'd like to ask you about the construction department's progress, if there's already been a verification of the building permit. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u77	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u78	Thank you, Mr President. So I would hate to make this sound as a statement against the claim, but from the information available, or as we obviously tried to go into history under the influence of the unfortunate event and have the most accurate idea, so the real co-admission procedure for the location of the operation of Bochemie took place in 2012, 2013, I think this has already been said here, but it was in line with all the legislation in force at the time, including that all the relevant entities actually commented on it. And I repeat, they have found no reason not to allow this operation in a given location. The location of the object is also in accordance with the relevant decree of the Czech Mining Authority No.99/1995 Coll. and all security distances are respected and civilian buildings are out of danger of being hit. I am merely communicating what I found in some anals, and I would only subjectively like to add that, with all due respect to the construction office, I would build an army higher when it comes to guaranteeing that this would be decided in accordance with the law and with the security regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u79	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to another interpellation. Mr Vladimír Koníček will intersect the absent Minister Andrej Babiš on the implementation of the resolution of the Supervisory Committee number 138. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u80	Minister, on 3 September 2015, the Supervisory Committee adopted Resolution 138 in which it asked you to submit to the Audit Committee an assessment of the ISPROFIN programme number 112V09 - Construction, renewal and operation of the Treasury, a report on the implementation of the State Treasury project, including a detailed calculation of the costs of the implementation of the project. On 27 January, the Audit Committee received your letter, which unfortunately did not contain all the information requested, which I pointed out to you by letter of 29 January. On 17 February, I met with your Deputy Minister, Mr Hejna, to discuss personally the content of the documents requested by the Ministry of Finance by the Supervisory Committee. So the Deputy Minister and I made it clear, and Deputy Minister Hejna promised that all the requested information would be delivered by the Ministry of Finance to the Audit Committee by the end of March 2016. It is the second half of April and the inspection committee still lacks the documents required in resolution 138. I would like to ask you, Minister, when will you deliver the documents to the inspection committee so that we can even discuss the State Treasury point on the committee. And since I still have time, I would like to ask you, Minister, how do you explain the term 'without undue delay', because the Supervisory Committee called on you in January by resolution 163 and, by resolution 175 in February, repeatedly called on you to submit without undue delay to the Government of the Czech Republic a proposal to amend the claims of unused non-profiling expenses for profiling in order to prepare and start the construction of the premises of the SAO. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u81	I thank Mr Koníček, he will be answered in writing. Mr. Jiří Zlatuška, who will interpel Mr. Vice Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek on the tolerance of fraudulent financing, will give the seventh interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u82	Dear Mr. absent Vice Prime Minister, on 21 January I consulted on fraud involving public funding for research, development and innovation. These are so-called predatory publications, or fictional or worthless publications. I received a reply on 17 February stating that the R & D Council in January 2016 unanimously agreed - I quote - "to apply sanctions for the results presented in the results register which do not correspond to the definition of the result'. Nothing happened about finding these results in the R &amp; D Council, however, the association Science lives on the March academic forum, the content of which you are regularly informed, a total of 672 fictional or worthless, in quotation marks, publications in the register, of which 214 were evaluated 6700 points. 53 million crowns were paid for them and another 28 million will be paid in the following years thanks to the method of financing. I therefore ask what kind of own investigation the Research, Development and Innovation Council has done and how many further it has found. Secondly, to whom penalties have been granted for at least 672 publications. Thirdly, to whom and to what extent penalties have been granted for the already known fraudulent reported results. Fourthly, whether funds of 53 or more million have been withdrawn and measures have been taken to ensure that this damage does not continue to increase. And fifthly, that money wasn't originally given to others who were supposed to get it. Will this be refunded to them?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u83	I thank the honourable Member. He'll be answered in writing. Mr Jiří Junek, who will interpelise the present Minister of Transport Dan Ťuk on the Danube-Odra-Labe channel, will give an eighth interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u84	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, Minister, I called my intervention on the Danube-Odra-Labe channel. However, maybe I could start with a joke from the last regime that said Lenin was everywhere. I'll open the paper - Lenin, I'll open the radio - Lenin, I'll open the TV - Lenin. I'm afraid to open a can. I feel that today it is similar to the Danube-Odra-Labe channel, when it is written about everywhere, it is even known when the construction will start. The President even got investors, etc. I personally believed that the Danube-Odra-Labe channel is a megalomanic structure, a deep scar, a wound in a landscape that has no place in our country and in our time. It was probably understood by the Ministry of Transport when your predecessor Minister Prachař stopped the competition for the feasibility study of the Danube-Odra-Labe channel, which was announced again by his predecessor, President's Minister of Transport Zdeněk Žák, with the whole matter costing CZK 25 million. So now I am amazed when I read from public sources that the preparatory work has been renewed. That's why I'm asking if that's true. And if so, on what it's done. Whether it was your personal decision as Minister of Transport, whether it was the government's decision or whether it was at the request of the President. I also wonder what was the reason for this decision. And the cost of such preparatory work. I represent the Pardubice Region, where we still lack the D35 motorway, now again complicated by the unfortunate EIA. We would also like to see an extension of the railway corridor, etc. And we may be a little concerned that public money and time will be wasted on megalomanic projects that could still be interesting at the beginning of the twentieth century, but today, in my opinion, they are completely out of reality. A lot has been written about the Danube-Odra-Labe channel, much published, much said. [[Attention on time.]] Even the channel Labe-Dunaj-Odra has its museum in České Třebová. I think that's where he belongs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u85	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Please, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u86	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, honourable Members, Mr Vice-President, there is currently a tender for processors to study the feasibility of the Danube-Odra-Labe Canal. The task results from Part 7 of the approved territorial development policy, as amended by Amendment 1, Article 180, which reads: To examine the effectiveness and feasibility of the DOL Canal Connection in order to assess in full European context the issue of its possible implementation, including environmental aspects, transport efficiency and investment intensity of individual branches. The Ministry of Transport is responsible in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture. This is not the preparation of buildings, but the variant verification of the feasibility of the project, which is particularly important as a basis for the decision to continue the territorial protection of this project. Based on the results of the study, it will then be decided on the possible preparation of the project or some parts of it, such as the connection of Ostrava to the Oder waterway. The resulting feasibility study will also be subject to a strategic assessment of the environmental effects of the SEA. I'd add I was a little surprised by the question. He surprised me because in the programme statement and in the coalition agreement, the coalition parties committed themselves to making this assessment. Mr President, you, as a coalition Member, could know about what is said in the coalition treaty and in the Government's programming declaration and that I am bound by these documents in my work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u87	Thank you. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u88	Thank you. I will read the programming statement carefully. I don't think the Danube-Odra-Labe channel is specifically mentioned there. However, I haven't learned one more part of my question, and how much that possible study will cost, how much it will cost us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u89	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please, how many of us are we gonna get?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u90	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I am sorry, I did not answer that part. The competition is underway. Currently, one of the participants was expelled. It is awaited for his appeal or for his non-revocation. Of course, we know the prices. The maximum value is 25 million. However, the prices offered are about 30 percent lower than this value. But since the competition hasn't been announced, I wouldn't want to speculate on the total price here. The study should be done in a year and a half from the time of the assignment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u91	That was the answer to the eighth interview. Mr Martin Novotný, who will also interpelise the Minister of Transport on the PPP in transport, will give the ninth interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u92	Mr President, Minister, I am not a coalition Member, so I have a greater degree of freedom of transport issues. One of your tasks after taking up office was the rehabilitation of the Public Private Partnership model, a public-private partnership in the field of transport construction. As a pilot project, you selected a 30-mile Strakonický section, which was selected logically in connection with the difficult implementation of this construction in other ways. Constructions that are not included in the trans-European network cannot be financed from EU resources. In recent weeks, however, we have learned that the tender offered not on PPP itself, but on advisors, that is the previous one, was abolished by the supervisory authority for discrimination against Czech companies. The condition was the implementation of road PPP projects, which, given that none of them has been implemented so far, can hardly be met in our country. In this context, I have two questions for you. The first concerns how you will proceed in the preparation of this and other road PPP projects, how much delay and complexity constitutes an EHOS decision, as you see the time horizon of preparation and implementation. [[16.30 hours]] And the second question. Don't you find those canceled tenders a little too much in connection with your ministry? It's the second canceled tender to choose a counselor after a similar fiasco tender for a myth counselor. Both cancellations took place on the basis of quite trivial errors. According to some information at the moment, the Ministry is bypassing the consultant's tender to myth by cutting this contract for small-scale contracts, which I fear could already have a much more serious convention. Overall, I ask: are you satisfied with the quality of public award by your Ministry? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u93	Thank you, honourable Member. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u94	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would first of all like to say that I did not want to illustrate my previous answer whether anyone could ask for transport or not. I was just explaining why I had to do this study. I will return to interpelling Mr Novotný on PPP projects. I would like to say that our interest in the PPP project on the D4 motorway is still ongoing. We want to do this project and I am convinced that we have prepared it well, that we have a study that confirms the feasibility of this project. The government has agreed to this project, and we have launched a contest for advisors. In my opinion and in all the opinions we have, the contest for counsellors has been put out correctly. We simply insist, with proper care, that one who advises us can advise us and that he has had some experience. It is not true that there are no Czech subjects who can and can advise on this matter. Of course, it is expected to be some international consortium of law firms and experienced advisors. The reason why the unrightful decision of April 5 of the UOHS canceled this competition... We've put decay against his verdict, and I believe that the decay will end well. As for your second question, I believe that the vast majority of our competitions are written in accordance with the law and right. The UOHS, in this case, has the right, of course, to assess these things in the way they are judged. I also don't like the way things are going. But I am here to act in accordance with the law, and I am convinced that we will find a way to really get a high-quality advisor for this action. I just don't want to write a PPP project, which at the lowest price will win a typical Czech legal company, so that we end up just not doing the project. Well, in that case, I'd rather repeat the counsellor contest so that we can meet the conditions and have a high-quality advisor to make the project go the way it's supposed to. Instead of writing it wrong, I think it's better not to write the project.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u95	Thank you, Minister. The Member does not have an additional question. Let's move on to the tenth interpellation. Mr. Michal Kučera will intersect the absent Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka on the bark of the affected trees. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u96	Hello, dear absent minister. According to my information, the state enterprise Forest of the Czech Republic granted mining companies fines for allowing the expansion of bark bark. The kůrovec now massively attacks inappropriate spruce monocultures weakened by drought. In some places, however, according to my information, mining companies also contributed to the barking calamity through their failure to perform. There is a simple reasoning offered by the miners. The more bark, the more they can benefit, and the more they get wood from the public woods. Minister, what mining companies, where and to what amount were fined for having barklings spread? I would also like to ask you for information on the penalties imposed by the Forests of the Czech Republic on the contractual partners who carry out forestry activities in the forests for failing to process the tree barking process in time between 2013 and the end of 2016, at the amount of the fine, on which the contracting territorial units and for how many cubicles the trees were attacked in due time. I would also like to inform you how these fines were enforced by the Forests of the Czech Republic and how much was paid to date, or what are the reasons why some have not yet been paid or have not been paid in full or have been pardoned. Dear Minister, do you realize that a great business seems to have started here, where the bark can be expanded so that companies can benefit more and get more wood from the public woods? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u97	Thank you, honourable Member. He'll be answered in writing. Mrs Marta Semelová will give an 11th interview. He will intersect Minister Milan Chovanec in the Police Academy case. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u98	Hello. I appeal to you, Minister, on the future of the Police Academy of the Czech Republic. As a member of the school committee, I was approached by the chairman of the academic Senate, who expressed concern for her future fate. Police Academy is a state college that provides education for the Ministry of Interior, Finance, Justice, Defence and the Government. In addition, it educates civilian students who are preparing for future employment in the field of public administration and the above-mentioned security forces. In the spring of last year, you publicly declared that the Police Academy would not be canceled. You repeated this in December when you assured me that the abolition of this state school and its redevelopment under the head of the Ministry of the Interior was out of the question. However, the draft law you sent to the Police Academy states that the law will set up the Police Academy of the Czech Republic as an organizational part of the Ministry of the Interior. This means that the Police Academy will be abolished and a new entity will be established. And I'm asking why. What led you to such a turnaround? Police Academy of the Czech Republic works seamlessly, which demonstrated both the deep control of the Accreditation Commission and the deep economic control of the Ministry of the Interior. Do you realize that there are specifically 2,100 students at risk of graduating? Furthermore, at least one year's interruption in the ability to educate any members of the Security Corps and civilian security experts in higher education? The threat of transferring the education of security forces to the private sphere? Putting a ministerial official in place of the academy's self-governing bodies? Finally, it is a complex on lucrative large plots with comfortable equipment, playground, athletic track, swimming pool, professional security and equipment. Who will take over this area and all other property?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u99	Thank you, ma'am. It will be answered in writing. Mrs Markéta Adamová, who will interpelise the present Minister of Culture, Daniel Herman, on the matter of state monuments, will give the 12th interview. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I have received this initiative from one of the voters, and I would like to share it with you. I find it inspiring in many ways. So it's more of an inspiration than a question. He has more children than maybe usual in our country because he has four children. And he said that when he visits the castles, the castles, including the state, the family entrance fee is only for two children, i.e. for a family with two children. He wonders if it is possible to change this situation from the state's position so that he can count on the larger families as well as the number of three or more children. Because as we may all agree, and especially KDU-ČSL has one of its priorities support families with children, so I think it might be so small though, but a drop in that sea of things that can change them for a better life. I think that the present President will also agree. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u101	Yes, it's perfectly normal to have four children. Thank you, Madame, for this question and I will ask the Minister for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u102	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues. I would like to thank you, Mr President, for this question by your help, Mrs Adamová, and I certainly see it. This is a very important observation and it is definitely a matter that we will consult with the management of the National Heritage Institute. And I will be happy to use this option to introduce you to the state of what it looks like to make sights available with regard to family admissions and young visitors. The accessible state monuments, especially castles and castles, are managed, as I have already said, by the National Heritage Institute, which is a contribution organization established by the Ministry of Culture. One of the main priorities of the National Heritage Institute is to enable visitors to visit these buildings as widely as possible, especially disadvantaged groups of citizens. The National Monument Institute provides free entry to children until the age of six, unless it is an organized group of such children. ZTP licence holders up to 18 years of age, ZTPP and ZTPP guides without restrictions. Furthermore, holders of ICOM and ICOMOS cards, Association of Museums and Galleries of the Czech Republic, pedagogical accompaniment and supervision of organized groups of children in a maximum number of two persons per group or also journalists on a business trip after prior accreditation at the administration of the relevant monument building. Reduced admission is granted to children aged 6 to 15 years, to students aged 15 to 26 years and to holders of the Fund of Endangered Children's Card, to seniors aged 65 years and to ZTPP holders. For families with children is set up on the basic circles of monuments. Family entrance fee is also provided by group admission fee for group from 20 or more persons. Furthermore, the National Heritage Institute offers loyalty discounts, carries out a loyalty program to which 130 castles, castles, monasteries, historical breweries and other monuments of state, city and private have joined. The principle of loyalty program is that for five tickets every visitor can get a sixth entry free of charge. As part of this programme, the Klíč project for schools has been running since the 2016 season, when the Ministry of Culture distributed cards to all schools in the Czech Republic to obtain a 50% discount on admission fees for pre-booked school trips, which emphasizes the efforts of the National Heritage Institute to find ways to make monuments an essential part of educational education programs and also places that go to visit children and youth. On the basis of the analysis carried out, the Ministry of Culture proposed the introduction of an annual free admission to the monuments administered by the National Heritage Institute in three selected days: 1 June, International Children's Day, 28 September, svatý Václav, The Day of Czech Statehood, and October 28th, The Day of Creation of the independent Czechoslovak State. Thank you for your attention and thank you again for your interest in this important aspect of sightseeing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u103	I thank the Minister for his reply. However, not only will I be the one who closely monitor his dealings with the Monument Institute. Mrs Věra Kovářová, who will intersect the absent Minister of Finance in the matter of the budgetary determination of taxes, will give another interview. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u104	Dear Minister, the budgetary determination of taxes is a topic that we have addressed in the Chamber of Deputies during this parliamentary term, and we have devoted a lot of time to this issue. And I'm assuming we're still going to pay a great deal of attention to him. Recently, there was an idea that municipalities and cities would give up their share of the return on gambling tax in exchange for increasing the share of the return on value added tax to 23.58 %. I would like to ask how this government views this proposal and when and whether it will submit it to the Chamber of Deputies for discussion. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u105	Thank you, Madame. Mr. Jiří Petrů, who will interpelise the absent Minister for Regional Development on the new construction law, will give a 14th interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, there is often criticism in plenary of the delay in construction mainly of transport infrastructure, due to the assessment of the environmental impact of buildings. When discussing the amendment in December 2014, your colleague, the Minister of the Environment, assured us that there is no danger of stopping the buildings, it is said that mantra, because the EIA is tuned with the amendment of the construction law, which you are preparing together. The Minister spoke of a single coordinated authorisation procedure for both the EIA and the territorial decision and the building permit, i.e. the principle of one stamp. Coordination of construction offices of general and special, one final document, would be possible to appeal to it only once. The new design of the construction law should also significantly limit the so-called. public involvement in the approval process when the EIA decision is then a territorial decision and finally a building permit is being challenged in the name of nature conservation by terrorists who do not live or live in the place and who block construction for many years. These relevant arguments also convinced me and I raised my hand for the EIA novel. Madam Minister, we are facing a major problem of preparing efficient public buildings for drawing funds from European Union funds. In what state of preparation is the new building law and when will it be submitted for discussion to the Chamber of Deputies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u107	I thank the honourable Member, who will be answered in writing. Mrs Hana Jírovcová Aulická will interpel her 15th interview by Minister Jiří Dienstbier on the ban on institutional care for children under seven years of age. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u108	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, I am interrogating you on the upcoming material of your resort on the possible prohibition of placing children under seven years of age into institutional care and unifying all child care and related services under one resort. As I have already said in the interview with the Prime Minister, we have seen this effort with Minister Marksová and unfortunately I have found that this effort has passed through the legislative initiative to your resort. The Prime Minister mentioned some data, but unfortunately they were not based on the truth and were prepared by your resort. The report you have prepared as a basis for the prepared material contains many false and deliberately distorted information. According to the real statistics of our republic is currently 558 transitional foster parents, as at 31. 12. 20150 was the total number of foster parents 738, children eligible for adoption by the end of 2015 was 5 377. Most children in the Ústí Region, namely 1 001 children, and at least 83 children in the Hradec Králové Region. In addition, the condition and quality of foster parents is particularly varied for a transitional period. We miss our foster parents for a long time. Dear Minister, you're looking at various analyses of nonprofit organizations, but has anyone from your department been to the infant homes and children's homes? Are you saying that institutional education has an adverse effect on the development of the child, but has someone from your department spoken to psychologists and psychiatrists who are dealing with this issue, or are you still listening only to the nonprofit sector not only from our Republic? How do you want to ensure the quality and sufficient number of foster parents in the required number? First of all, your resort and MPSV should not address the overall improvement of child care as a whole and, on the contrary, support the current system so that only educated and mentally competent foster parents are in part of foster care and are sought out and educated in cooperation with institutional care, where the most qualified workers in the field of education and health are so far. Minister, I cannot agree with your intention. Your proposed changes are not in the best interest of the child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u109	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u110	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, the material referred to in the interpellation is the initiative of the Human Rights Council at the initiative of its Committee on the Rights of the Child. Both the Committee's work and the Council's activities are equally shared by representatives of the state administration, including the ministries concerned, as well as representatives of non-profit organisations or the academic community, in order to ensure different views on the matter and those materials which are processed were as good as possible and taken into account precisely all aspects of the matter. [[16.50 hours]] I think it is quite indisputable that it is best for children if they remain in their family and if it is not possible for them to find an environment that is as similar to the normal family as possible. This is based on the initiative of the Human Rights Council, which is also the case. calls for improved support services, social services provided to the original families. It also depends on the statistical data available to us, so about half of the children that are placed in so-called. Baby homes, returning to their families, are in these institutions for a transitional period. If the services are improved, and they are social services of different types, including field services, but it is also about ensuring decent housing for children to live with families under suitable conditions, we can significantly improve these statistical data. Of course, in the second row, the foster family care, whether it's a permanent solution, e.g. through adoption, or through the development of foster care, including foster care, for a temporary short period of time. According to studies that have been presented and which are quite well known, it is always better for the child than institutional care and it is necessary to develop this system as much as possible. Statistical data also suggest that this is succeeding gradually, although perhaps not as quickly as we would like, including the foster care system and the support service that is provided to the foster families and which I think is functional. Nor does the government's suggestion count on 100 percent of children being placed out of institutional care in as much family care as possible. Of course, even the stimulus envisages that there may be cases where this is objectively impossible, even in the best interests of the child. The most common will probably be the cases of serious disability on the part of a child placed in institutional care. But even here, I would point out that even for these children, of course, it is best if they find the family solution of the most similar solution. And, of course, the placement in institutional care in these children is double disadvantageous for them, because they add a social disability to the health disability. Indeed, the available studies show that children placed in institutional care are more likely to lag behind compared to foster children and, of course, especially when compared to children who grow up in natural families. However, the differences are not so profound, or they are managed to balance between natural families and foster care, less already in those institutions. I do not make it any less difficult for people who work in these constitutional facilities because I have no doubt - and even on the basis of my own experience, I have visited a number of such facilities myself, so I see that in place they are trying to create the best possible conditions for children. Yet objectively, studies show that this is not what is in their best interest for children. But, as I was saying, even the suggestion of counsel is not absolute, fundamentalistic in this regard. Everyone realizes that there may be cases where objectively the journey of family or as similar care as possible will not be possible. Perhaps still on the part of the complaint, which suggests gradually restricting the possibility of placing in three steps, first within one year, then within three years and then until seven years of age. The transitional period is expected to be relatively long - six years. Moreover, the time needed to adopt the relevant legislation, so we are really talking about seven, eight years. And until then, of course, it is absolutely necessary to build the conditions, the support so that it works the way I described it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u111	Thank you, Minister. Madame and its supplementary question. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u112	Thank you. Unfortunately, Minister, I don't see the guarantee that - I'm not saying that there isn't a necessary number of foster parents, but just in the quality of the foster parents. We have today's criteria that a foster parent can have e.g. Basic education, will pass the appropriate psychological tests and pass the next 72 hours of some course. And, of course, there are other things to do. But I think for that foster kid to get a baby and take care of him properly, whether he has a disability or not, that's pretty low. That's why I'm comparing it to the quality of people who work in institutional care today, whether it's in baby homes, where it's mainly the medical staff, or in the children's homes where we talk about the quality of education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u113	The Minister wishes an additional answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u114	Just really, really, really short. I mentioned that even foster parents must receive support and that the support is provided in the form of various trainings and other support. If I have information, that's what's happening. Of course, we don't have enough foster parents at the moment, but the number is increasing. And statistical data clearly show that the number of children under three years of institutional care is actually being reduced. And once again, I have no doubt that the employees of the institution are trying to do their best for the children. But a healthy environment for children in institutions is not the only one. Socialization of these children and especially in the early years of life is absolutely crucial and this can never be replaced by institutional care. So the trend is undoubtedly correct, which he wants to launch the initiative of the Human Rights Council.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u115	That was the Minister's supplementary reply. Mr Petr Bendl, who will interpel Marian Jurečka's absent Minister of Agriculture on the application of the Service Act, will give the 16th interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear permanently absent Minister of Agriculture, it was not so long ago that the state began to apply the service law. And I would like to ask how many officials in the Ministry of Agriculture and how many officials in the Ministry of Agriculture have not fulfilled the technical conditions laid down by this law and how many exceptions have been given. At the same time, I wonder what positions involved such exceptions. Because I learned from the media today that from the Ministry of Agriculture funds, or if you want state resources, the Minister of Agriculture had a service apartment renovated for a sum of 2.1 million. CZK, which I consider extremely overpriced, for one of my deputy, I would like to know whether this deputy is also in the category of service. Thank you for your quick answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u117	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Jan Zahradník, who will interpelise the present Minister Dan Ťok in the PPP case for the construction of the D4 motorway, will give the 17th interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u118	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, I would like to continue with the interpellation that my colleague Novotný had here. Jihočechy is prosecuting us from the point of view of the construction of motorways one Jobův's report after another. The EIA doesn't apply to D3 and maybe even the D4 is now collapsing the choice of advisor for PPP project on the D4 motorway via Příbram to Písek. I remember preparing the PPP project on the D3 motorway, which was pretty much prepared for the selection of the concessionaire, but it was found that in the end the 30 or 36 km was not enough for the concessionaire. So I'm asking if this is really well thought out, that this section in about ten billion will then be sufficient in the selection of the concessionaire and if it doesn't collapse on it. And secondly, I want to ask if you will already set some criteria for the path that he would have taken in the preparation of the project. [[17,00 hours]] For example, how the maid will be paid, which then the concessionaire will pay gradually. Because we can't imagine it, and no one can think of it, but the possibility here, theoretically, is that in Písek and then somewhere near Lubenec, there would be sharts, i.e. toll booths, and tolls were collected from every car, including passenger cars. None of us can imagine that, and I hope that's not how you plan it. But I'm still asking the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u119	I thank Mr Zahradník. Please, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u120	Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members. The planned public contract of motorway D4 in the form of PPP is intended to ensure the construction, financing, operation and maintenance of this motorway with a length of 32 km in the crossroads 2/118 Mirotice extension and at the same time operation and maintenance of connected sections of motorway D4 and road 1/20 with a length of about 20 km in sections D4 Skalka junction 2/118 Háje, D4 Mirotice - Třebkov, D4 junction 1/20 Nová Hospoda, 1/20 Nová Hospoda - Písek, off-level crossroad Krašovice. On 5 April the competition for State advisers for competitive dialogue was abolished by an irregular decision of the IOHS. The Ministry of Transport filed a breakdown against this decision on 20 April, which means yesterday. In the event of a negative opinion of the ÚOHS, the Ministry of Transport will list a new tender for the provision of legal, financial and technical consultancy services before and during the procurement procedure for the selection of the concessionaire for the PPP D4 project. However, the project preparation continues according to the agreed timetable. So I would just like to add, I firmly believe that we have explained very much in our decay why we demand qualification that this state advisor should really guide us through this process properly. As far as his qualifications are concerned, we simply need someone who has experience with a well done project. There are these bodies in the Czech Republic that advised, for example, in Slovakia or other countries, so I think that this should not be a major problem. And I firmly believe that the supervisory authority from Brno will assess our decomposition and that it will comply, because we need to continue. So I don't see the whole situation tragically. I'm sure we'll make it. As for the length, we were very much considering whether to do the whole section at once or to do it in pieces. Then we decided for good reasons that it would be in two parts. There's no reason why you shouldn't write a contest like this. We're registering quite a lot of interest in international companies that make a concession for this competition. We even have a specific offer and rather a request from the European Commission whether we would like to use public sector co-financing for this project through the so-called "public sector." Junckerův's package. I'll discuss it with the Commissioner in Ljubljana tomorrow. So these things just keep going, and it's real to do the whole thing, and there's no reason for it to fall. The last question. We're counting on a competitive dialogue, and the withdrawal or payment should be on so-called. based on availability payment, it means no myth selections. It is a matter of the fact that the toll will, of course, be selected in the standard manner and the concessionaire will receive an agreed payment based on how reliable the communication is in operation. If there are modifications, reconstructions, or any repairs, these are things where he doesn't get paid. I just want to say one thing. We think the whole project is very interesting especially given what prices were achieved when opening envelopes on the PPP project bypass Bratislava. And I think we are at the right time when the PPP project and its experience would be very beneficial for further development of transport infrastructure and for the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u121	Thank you, Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador, about your follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u122	Rather than a question, Mr Vice-President, such a challenge. I'd really like it to work out. Of course, every good news is good for us. And I would ask you, Minister, that you and Minister Brabc do their utmost to break the barrier of the invalid EIA and try to make an exception. They were being pushed. We've been trying to give support here in the House. Unfortunately, it didn't work out. But second, even if there are some doubts as to whether the EIA is paying or not, just prepare, prepare, prepare, and for God's sake, these things won't get stuck again for some lack of preparation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u123	Please, Minister, follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u124	Thank you. I'd like a refill. We're preparing, of course. I just want to say one thing. If we want European money for these projects, we probably can't avoid repeating the EIA. Actually, the question is, if there's a mechanism, when if we used national money, we wouldn't have to repeat the EIA. From a legal point of view, the fact that the EIA is valid is true, and we would also win a possible trial in Strasbourg. The problem is, it would cost us the financials we're looking at first. But maybe there's an option, maybe I'll come up with it, that there are projects that we want to finance from national sources, and we could avoid repeating the EIA. And otherwise, I want to assure you that my priority since I came to the ministry is that he's been preparing, preparing and preparing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u125	Thank you, Minister. Mr Michal Kučera withdraws the 18th interview. We'll proceed to the 19th interpellation. Mrs Marta Semelová will intersect the absent Minister of Education Kateřina Valachová on the future of children's homes. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u126	Madam Secretary, at the initiative of the Human Rights Council, institutional care for vulnerable children under one department, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is to be united. At the same time, the possibility of placing children in such facilities should be limited. The age limit, until the child can not be placed, should be within one year of the child's age, then within three and finally until seven years of age, with the fact that if the placement is absolutely necessary, for a maximum period of one month. What's gonna happen to those kids then? Of course, we all wish that every child would grow up in his family, and if that is not possible, it would be a surrogate in the family. Unfortunately, it is not always feasible. Where will they go? On the street? With regard to unification under one resort, the current fragmentation into three departments, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Social Affairs, and the Ministry of Social Affairs, has in this case its justification due to their health, mental state, children's needs, the different conditions from which they come. The only office cannot fully embrace health, social and educational issues. Children's homes have a function of educational, educational and social. Special educators work here. The transition under the MPSV will reduce the standard. I therefore want to ask if you agree to the transition to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Further, as discussed with children's homes and other MŠMT facilities. And finally, how do you feel about setting an age limit? Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u127	Thank you, Madame. Mrs Věra Kovářová, who will interpelise the present Minister Michaela Marksová on social services salaries, will give a 20th interview. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u128	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, allow me to address you with an interview on social services salaries. At this point, I'm not going to consider the adequacy of their size, as you might estimate from the name of the interpelation, but a little bit different. On one of my visits to one of the Central Bohemia's low-level facilities, I learned that a relatively big problem for its director and later also for employees is that they receive subsidies only during the year, say in March or April, which means a problem for their cash flow. The first month of the year's salaries must be borrowed due to a lack of funds. But getting credit is not easy for them as a non-profit organization. Everything could be resolved if the relevant subsidies were distributed earlier. Madam Secretary, does this unpleasant situation have any simple and acceptable solutions that would make life easier for social organisations? I'd put in a big word for it. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u129	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u130	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I, for the Ministry of Labour, must say that I am also very aware of this, but the rules are governed by the law that is in the Gesture of the Ministry of Finance. And it was not so long ago, about a month ago, two of what I had presented to the Government was the material of the National Social Services Strategy by 2020, and there we have actually raised this topic again for several times, and in fact in the resolution of this material is a point which obliges me and the Minister of Finance to agree on a method of financing so that these things do not happen, because the fact that they will receive the funds in March at the moment really corresponds to the relevant Act No. 218/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules, and at the same time corresponds to the relevant decree No. 367/2015 Coll., on the principles and time limits of financial settlement of relations with the state budget, state financial assets and the national fund. And that task, the government's resolution here on the national strategy, says that we should agree on a method that would, for example, introduce multiannual funding, which, within the non-profit sector and within the Government's Council for Non-State Non-profit Organisations, has actually been spoken of for at least ten years, if not more, or whether we should go the way of mandatorial spending on social services. We had to break the material because the Ministry of Finance didn't agree with this task at all, but it just says we have to make a deal. Eventually, the material was approved, so we have this task. I think that we should agree on a multi-annual funding system, which means that it would guarantee it, as it is for European funds, for example, that funding would be ensured for four years and therefore continuous over the four years. But basically, it would require you to address this question next time to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u131	The honourable Member has an additional question. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u132	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. I just wanted to ask. You've been tasked with both departments. You're saying there's a way to deal with it. The Ministry of Finance agreed, respectively. It did not agree to this task. Does that mean that if one of the social services workers asks me if there is hope, is there a time horizon we could talk about? Because from year to year, they don't know if they're gonna get the money. There's a lot of fluctuations in employees who, of course, leave when they can't get, like, the first three months of salaries. Can you give me some time horizon? And, of course, I'll turn to the Treasury Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u133	Please, Madam Secretary. A horizon would be?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u134	Well, that's a difficult question, because, as I say, I've only been involved in these debates with other finance ministers for at least ten to fifteen years. But, of course, it's definitely the horizon of this parliamentary term, so I hope that we may have some results within six months. Otherwise, as far as I know, the multi-annual funding of the resorts to their individual subjects could be used, but it's still in its diapers, and most importantly it's not completely taken into account and accepted by the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u135	I thank the Minister for her answer. Mr. Ludvík Hovorka in 21. interpelace will intersect the absent minister of health Svatopluk Němeček in the matter of evaluating measures to increase the effectiveness of hospitals of the Ministry of Health. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u136	Dear Minister, your ministry submitted a proposal for systemic changes to public health insurance in 2014 in order to increase the efficiency and transparency of the public health insurance system. Part of this proposal is the management system of organisations established by the Ministry of Health that consume half of the cost of bed care. The Ministry of Health was to establish and evaluate comparable indicators of reported health care provided to bed care providers established by the Ministry of Health. This measure is intended to allow a better evaluation of the cost-effectiveness of the management of public health insurance funds. These measures should include: 1. reporting contracts with suppliers, including the publication of unit prices of purchased services, which will enable the organisation's ability to purchase services effectively and prevent the execution of funds; 2. the limitation of outsourcing - the Ministry will analyse the extent of outsourcing in very detail in all its directly managed organisations; 3. centralization of purchases - The Ministry of Health will carry out to the maximum extent centralised purchases for commodities where financial savings are expected in this way of purchase. Recently, the Sub-Committee on Economics held a seminar on effective drug purchases and we found that the Ministry had not made much progress. So far, the central purchase of medicinal gases is being prepared, which is certainly not a decisive item in hospital costs. Can you please tell me how far the implementation of the proposed austerity measures is, in particular how the reporting of contracts with suppliers takes place with individual directly managed organisations and the publication of unit prices of purchased services and materials in which directly managed hospitals have been restricted or cancelled by outsourcings and how many hospitals are centralized purchases and what materials, medicines and services? Thank you for giving me an exhaustive answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u137	No doubt, Mr. Ambassador, you will be answered. Mrs Markéta Adamová, who will interpelise the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on transport contributions, will submit the 22nd interview. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u138	Thank you for the floor. At the beginning of April, Madam Secretary, the five regional authorities launched a pilot project in which people can apply for a contribution to transport, in other words, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has already implemented a 27th social benefit at a time of favourable economic situation and record low unemployment rates. I would like to put a very briefly broader context. 2010 - a deep economic crisis, a level of unemployment of 9 %, expenditure on state employment policy at the time per unemployed person amounted to CZK 42 925. In 2015, on the contrary, at a time of economic growth, unemployment was 6.5 percent on average, spending on one unemployed CZK 47 398, which is almost CZK 4,500 more. This means that at a time when there is a record level of unemployment, we record a record increase in jobs, on average there are five candidates for one job available, in 2010 it was sixteen. I therefore ask whether it is necessary to introduce another social benefit in such a situation, other expenditures of the state budget, and thus increase expenditure on individuals a little bit more in 2016. I wonder if you have a calculation of how much this new institute will cost the budget of the Czech Republic and whether there has been any analysis based on which you have assessed that it is really worth putting in place such a levy for the state budget. Sometimes I feel that you tend to spend money in this regard at all costs, regardless of the state budget and regardless of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u139	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u140	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I would not call this a new social benefit. It is a contribution that will be paid under the current active employment policy, and at this point it is being piloted in five regions, in those where the greatest unemployment is despite, of course, general unemployment falling. This means it is the regions of Ústecký, Moravskoslezský, Olomoucký, Jihomoravský and Karlovarský. We're in a situation where we have 100 thousand. job vacancies and about 460 thousand. the unemployed and actually we're not able to sort of put these two groups together. One of the big problems is that people here aren't mobile enough. For one thing, when they move - most of them have a family home here, when they're supposed to move somewhere else, the housing costs are just very high, and those who have low-income or medium-income jobs just don't pay off. However, within the framework of, I repeat, active employment policies, we would be moving the labour market. In the end, it is something that employers really want us to do. An example can be the expanding Škodovka race in Kvasiny, where they will actually look for thousands of new people and basically do not have them, while on the other hand we are talking about the Moravian-Silesian Region and redundancies in OKD. And we're trying to get those potentially discharged and unemployed people to get into these places. And just for the record, for the pilot phase, we're counting on the support of about 7.5 thousand. people and cargo are about 71 miles. Crowns. So it's a year from now. And otherwise, it's really focused on the long-term unemployed, which we actually have a lot of problems with despite the low unemployment rate here. This means that it will be for people who have been registering employment offices for more than 12 months and who will get into work outside the municipality in which they reside, and the contribution will be on the basis that they submit a document that they have worked with the employer the previous calendar month. It will be graduated by distance as far as the person commutes, but it will not only be for transport, it can be used for babysitting or for housing or transportation costs. At this point, it's actually only starting in April, so the evaluation is still coming.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u141	Thank you, Minister. The honourable Member has an additional question. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u142	Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask why this benefit has to be paid to people for one year and why it is not only necessary to bridge some, I understand, the entry barrier, when the person does not yet have the means to start going this far into employment, but after one two payouts, he should be able to pay for it from the very paycheck I think he has, and therefore it would not be necessary to support the person individually for one year. Then I'm afraid that many of these people will really only be motivated to work that year, so they're counting on this contribution, and then after a year, they're going to decide whether or not they're going to stay at work at all. I know that there is a mechanism to avoid cheating, quite invented, but it seems to me in this regard to be unnecessary support for entrepreneurs, because what we are going to talk about, so in this respect they should try. For example, the Moravian-Silesian region will hardly be able to reach Kvasin, but it will be necessary, if the employer contributes to accommodation, to move on as mobile. But why should the state do this and not just employers who should be particularly interested in their employees? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u143	Thank you, Madame. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u144	I should also point out that the benefit is not automatically entitled. Each person will be assessed individually and will be listed for a maximum of 12 months. In fact, many employers already support their employees by paying for their accommodation, paying for transport. But we believe that, as a state, we really are interested in how I said the labour market should move, so that we can make the most of our unemployed cohort, and people who are unemployed for more than one year, so it is already a category that has difficult conditions on the labour market, and that is why we want to support them. But I repeat, it's nothing claimable at all. In fact, the Labour Office will support everyone there, and the 12 months will be the maximum if this is a case that is justified. And we're talking about people who, for example, make so much money in this new place that they're back at the cost of transport or new accommodation, that it's really a great burden for them, even if they're making money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u145	I thank the Minister for her answer. Mr Radim Holeček will continue to interpel Mr Dan Ťok on the D8 motorway. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u146	Dear Minister, this isn't my first time on the D8 motorway. I am looking forward to this Christmas present for all drivers not only the Ústí Region. Lovosice to Ústí nad Labem and I/8 from Lovosice to Teplice will cheer the most. Dust, noise will be eliminated, but most importantly, fatal accidents. Three days ago, there was a newspaper report that reminded the builders that they were still suffering from two critical points. Next to the so-called Řehlovický nářez also a land slide that in June 2013 swamped about 200 meters, a practically finished section of the highway near Litochovice. I am informed that it is currently working on ground plan outlines called. static elements, which are reinforced concrete profiles eight to eight meters, and it's very complicated. My question is still the same: Will the completion be possible despite these difficulties until December 2016? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u147	Thank you, honourable Member. Minister, please, your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u148	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would like to say very briefly and clearly: Yes. We're doing everything we can, and I believe it will be. However, I will just mention briefly here that when it comes to the work on the slide, these continue. As part of the second phase of removal of the slide, the implementation of static elements and preparation for the implementation of the deep drain, which needs to be realized before completion of these elements. When the static elements are completed, soil will be removed from the body of the highway. The prerequisite for starting the recovery is April 25, 2016. After removal, the condition of the body and the technical basis for its renewal will be determined. The date of completion of the downsow remediation is expected in mid-2016. The remaining section of the D8 motorway will continue to be operational in December 2016. The critical timetable is kept. You're right, there's a notch and there's a heaviness. I visited the construction site at the end of February. I'm going there again when the slide starts to unload, and I'm convinced and everyone is confirming that the term is tense but manageable, so I hope that no administrative or geological unexpected matter will stop us either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u149	Thank you, Minister. Mr Daniel Korte, who is not present, will give the twenty-fourth interpellation, so I am canceling it. Mr Petr Bendl will also intersect Minister Marian Jurečka. He's not present either, so I'm canceling his interpellation. And once again, Mr Radim Holeček's favourite Member, this time she will interpel Mrs Karla Šlechtová in the case of Czechia.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u150	Madam Secretary, you said that with the new one-word foreign language name of the Republic of Czechia, you will not go further than I do. I believe that enough money would be loaded on the destination logo of the Czech Republic - land of stories, over a billion. Changing the brand, that's gonna be extra funding. I know that the introduction of Czechia, for example, is defended by Minister Pavel Bělobrádek, Minister Mládek sees a lot of fuss in all this, and we are familiar Fischerová the opinion of the Prime Minister and the President even after today's interpellation. My Questions: Has the Ministry of Regional Development been consulted? There was no public debate. So why is the name suddenly introduced? I'll give you a personal experience. When I go abroad, most people think we're still Czechoslovakia and haven't gotten used to the Czech Republic yet. So why are we changing the name again? Is that really necessary? We don't want them to confuse us with Chechenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u151	Thank you, honourable Member. He'll be answered in writing. Mr Ludvík Hovorka, Mr Ludvík Hovorka, will give another interview. He will interpel the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek on the business of issuing visas for Ukrainian citizens. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u152	Hello. Dear Minister, I repeatedly ask you to amend the visa system for Ukrainian citizens. According to your response to my interpelation, VISAPOINT is fully functional and transparent. According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' communication, VISAPOINT is an online publicly available system. Registration of another person for payment to the VISAPOINT system is not a violation of Czech legislation. This answered the question of Reflex by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is therefore simple from the point of view of Czech law. The middleman provides the service the Ukrajinec want and provides behind the embassy gates. It's none of our business. The foreign resort also denies the testimony of other Ukrajinec with the same experience. With a request for reimbursement of the registration code provided. According to the BIS reports, the VISAPOINT cybercrime system was attacked by reporters shortly after the implementation of the system. VISAPOINT created automated tools that quickly occupied all interview dates in the VISAPOINT system and thus prevented proper candidates from registering the deadline. There was nothing left for the interested parties but to pay the perpetrators of this crime a small amount for the mediation of registration, writes the BIS in the 2013 report. A year later, the BIS continues. The introduction of several functions into the VISAPOINT information system has brought temporary improvements to the situation. However, some intermediaries have responded to, adapted to, and continued to exploit the VISAPOINT information system for their own enrichment. In the end, Ukrajinec would rather pay their intermediaries. According to the testimony of Ukrajinka Oksana, VISAPOINT is not resistant to corruption, as the Czech authorities face. She herself heard an interview between two employees, an embassy recommended by interpreters, discussing when VISAPOINT's deadlines would be released. According to the information available, the amount from 4 thousand is payable for the issue of a visa or for the mediation of registration. up to 16,000. Crowns. The number of visas issued for Ukrainians has decreased from 27 thousand since 2007. 3,000 last year. persons. Minister, I ask you to make amends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u153	I thank Mr Hovorka. Mrs Marta Semelová, who will intersect the absent Minister of Health on the future of infant formulas, will give an 8th interview.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u154	Dear Minister, at the initiative of the Human Rights Council, institutional care for vulnerable children under the MPSV is to be consolidated and the possibility of placing children is to be restricted. The age limit, until the child can not be placed, should be within one year of the child's age, then within three years and finally until seven years of age, with the fact that if the placement is absolutely necessary, for a maximum period of one month. Although we would all like all children to grow up in the family, many of them remain in institutional care for various reasons. That's why I'm worried about what's going to happen to these kids when it comes to unification under one resort. The current fragmentation into three resorts, the Ministry of Health, the MPSV and the Ministry of Education, is justified here due to the age and various needs of children. The only office cannot fully embrace health, social and educational issues. For example, children's institutions, which are now under the Ministry of Health, will reduce their health care for children, which bring different risks to their lives, health or mental disability, are neglected, abused, have withdrawal symptoms, require special psychological and rehabilitation care. Children's centres, in which infant formulas and children's homes have gradually transformed into children under three years of age, provide children with described risk factors with comprehensive professional care, including diagnostics. Therefore, experts, paediatric societies, professional associations and people from practice object to the government's proposal. I would therefore like to ask whether you will consider these views based on years of experience, practice and expertise. Next, how do you stand to unify under one resort and to set a limit. And in the end, where unplaced children from the children's centers will go. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u155	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Michal Kučera, who will intersect the Minister of Transport on the completion of the R7 communication, will present another 29th interview.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u156	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, on the key R7 road, which you today gracefully call D7, thousands of cars and trucks go through every day. Usually a two-way road is not enough, it is long-term overloaded, there are often accidents. Last time it was a school bus with children, which turned on the way to Prague. Current repairs extend the way to work from a socially endangered region by up to tens of minutes. Moreover, modernization is under the radar due to the failed negotiations of your colleague from the ANO movement of Minister Brabec in Brussels on the assessment of the environmental impact of buildings on the EIA. The repairs that started in February of this year are to continue until autumn. On the four-string Salty-Prague are also mounted new guardrails, the ride is thrown into one lane. Interestingly, this section has been repaired in recent years. The ride was also limited to one lane. In addition, today, after one lane, the first holes on these sections have already appeared, which have been repaired in recent years. I assume that the four-line will be closed again next year to repair the holes that were created this year. I'd call it the perpetuum mobile of Minister Took. I would like to ask you, Minister, who is responsible for the chaos of the R7, which restricts people on their way to work and is the cause of traffic accidents?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u157	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister. Who's to blame?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u158	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, this year the construction of D7 Postoloprty-Bitozeves will begin. Regarding preparation for D7 I would like to say the following: For construction D7 Slaný - the border of the Central Bohemia Region this year the documentation for the territorial decision and the verification opinion on the EIA will be updated. The documentation for the building permit D7 Virgin Týnec, the capacity of the bypass, is then processed. This year, documentation for building permits, including engineering activities and verification opinion on the EIA will be provided. Land purchases will also be launched. D7 Chlumčany, capacity utilisation, this year will be documentation for building permits including engineering activity and verification opinion on the EIA. Land purchases will also be launched. Construction of D7 Louna, capacity capacity - here is the opinion of the EIA according to the old Act 244, it will be necessary to repeat the process of EIA. Construction of D7 Postoloprta, bypass capacity - the documentation for the zoning decision will be updated including the engineering activity and the verification opinion of the EIA. What is the procedure for repeating the EIA? On 24 March, the Ministry of Transport submitted to the inter-ministerial commentary proceedings the material pre-negotiated with the Ministry of Finance and the MMR, which sets out a clear procedure for securing the documents and ensuring the process of repeating the EIA for all projects, which are still based on the opinion of the EIA under Act No. 244/1992 Coll. Comments are currently being settled. The material will be submitted to the Government by the end of April. The basic principles for repeated EIA are: The EIA documentation will be prepared immediately according to the priorities in the preparation of individual buildings based on the opinion according to Act 244. The EIA documentation will be based on the current level of project documentation. Only the variants previously considered shall be described and the selection of the translated... assessment shall be justified with regard to the environmental parameters. In parallel with the repetition of the EIA process, the preparation of the project, documentation, purchase of land and, where appropriate, competitions for the contractor with the possibility to terminate the contract will continue if no building permit could be obtained by a certain date. Due to the repetition of the EIA process, funds will not be reallocated from the 2014 to 2020 OPD to other operational programmes, as The Ministry of Transport is able to guarantee effective spending of these resources, primarily in specific objectives where construction production is realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u159	Thank you, Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u160	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to invite the Minister to comment on the ongoing repairs on R7 and, at the same time, I would like to say: Dear Minister, I would like to ask you to make a personal commitment to the accelerated and high-quality completion of the R7 road, which is often the only way for people from the southern part of the Ústí Region to get to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u161	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u162	Dear Member, on the sections of the D7 motorway as well as on the other motorways, there is a gradual necessary exchange of existing central guardrails for new, corresponding to the applicable technical regulations. This step is an indisputable contribution to road safety. At the same time, the crossings of the middle divider belt are being modified. During these construction works, fast lanes are closed in the section concerned. On the 1/7 road between Slaný and the border of the Central Bohemia Region are stage construction work related to the repair of the road-couple. Since it is a two-track section, the operation is provided alternately in one lane and traffic lights are controlled. It is always estimated to be a part of the circus 500 meters long. It should be recalled that, in the absence of these works, the degradation of roads leading in the extreme case to their complete closure would continue. In this situation, it is certainly better to withstand traffic controlled by traffic lights than to take lengthy detours along non-compliant roads of lower classes. I must say that the Road and Motorway Directorate is limited by weather conditions during construction activities, among other things, so all work is planned from spring to autumn. The comfort of driving can be reduced at the time of repairs and I would therefore like to ask you for patience, adjustment of driving conditions and the nature of road and road traffic. I am glad that there is enough money available for us to repair roads to this extent. It wasn't always like that. And I'm sorry for the discomfort, but I'm still convinced that it's much more convenient for those roads to be repaired for the discomfort than if we let them continue to degrade. So we'll at least try to speed up the work so it's done as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u163	Thank you for your reply to the Minister. Mr Petr Bendl will interpel the absent environmental minister Richard Brabec in his 30th interview on the obligation to sell private property to the State. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u164	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, in the amendment to Act 114 on the Conservation of Nature and Lands, you propose from my point of view an unprecedented matter, ordering people to sell their land to the State, in national parks, natural reserves, natural monuments and cave-related land, with the fact that, at the time that this law was adopted, they would have had to sell the land of these people, or if you wanted to sell it to the State, for many years, so that they could not dispose of their property other than that if they wanted to sell it, they had to - and had to - sell it to the State. I want to ask you how this authority of the state and yours is met with the declared right-wing orientation of the ANO movement. Doesn't it strike you as a pre-1989 measure? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u165	Thank you, honourable Member. Mrs Věra Kovářová, who will intersect the absent Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek on the National Plan for the Development of New Generation Networks, will give another interview. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u166	vážený Minister, there was also talk at the conference in Hradec Králové about the National Plan for the Development of New Generation Networks. I was intrigued by a minor contradiction that may not even be a contradiction. Anyway, I'm gonna ask you for an explanation. And what is the contradiction in my opinion? The National Development Plan should be approved by 30 June this year. There's less than three months left. The logical condition of its acquisition is, however, an overview of the so-called white places, which are interesting from the perspective of the expansion of the connection. However, the MPO does not want to map this survey until the third quarter. Dear Minister, can you please explain what relationship these documents are in and exclude that the subsequent acquisition of an overview could be an obstacle to the approval of the National Plan for the development of new generation networks? Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u167	That is how it will be, the lady of the house will be answered in writing. Mr Radim Holeček will give the third second interview and will interpel the present Minister Michaela Marksová on housing policy. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u168	Madam Secretary, I'm interrogating you on your new housing lease proposal with the permission of the neighbors. I am from the Ústí Region, a region in many aspects problematic, and so, if I were a friend of quick solutions, in many ways it might seem likable that decent neighbors could agree not to accept a difficult person among the tenants. For example, the locals in Genoa near Litvínov, whose problems I interviewed in the past, could tell their story. Still, I don't find it quite sympathetic. I would really leave these decisions on agreements within the community of owners or at municipal level. I am not in favour of restricting the rights of owners. In this respect, I am totally against this proposal, as it would be contrary to the applicable legal order of our Republic Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u169	Thank you, honourable Member. I ask the Minister for her answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u170	Mr Vice-President, Members, this is one big misunderstanding. No one suggested or suggested such a thing as the approval of the neighbors. What the journalists misconstrued was that we are trying at the moment and we have launched such a draft package of measures into the commentary proceedings, where when we want to help those decent tenants, or decent apartment owners, either in cooperative homes or when they are a community of owners, it is actually what is happening today that those speculators of poverty have actually moved from living quarters to apartments, so, of course, it is only worth paying social benefits to them because we pay social benefits to those apartments. And the amendment to the Act on Material Needs of 2014 resulted in quite decent restrictions on the conditions in the residential hotels. That means the speculators, as you know best from your region, are moving into the apartments. And at this point, we basically have to pay those benefits there and we have no tools in our hands to prevent it or to limit it in some way, we as the Department of Labour. And we have written down a set of measures after discussions with the Deputys of other departments, where the other departments should help us, because these are simply things that we cannot write ourselves. One of these areas, for example, is that we require the Ministry of Health to re-establish hygiene standards for apartments that simply disappeared sometime in 2006. So theoretically, now that there's some completely housed, completely inconvenient flat, we still have to pay the dosage, because we just have no way of saying that it's in a terrible state and that no dose is going to go into it. And another one of those points is how to actually prevent the purpose of moving people. We're never, or I never said the neighbors' consent should be. I was just talking about the fact that in Western European countries there are much stricter rules on how an institution, like a cooperative body, I'm guessing a bureau, it decides when someone new wants to buy an apartment there, whether they can, may not, or whether it's the apartment they already own, who they can rent it to. And that's just how it works. That's nothing new. But I just mentioned it as one of the options where I think we should also take action to protect the decent tenants. But it's not even a suggestion that the Ministry of Labour has in mind. So it's just one of about eight proposed measures for further discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u171	I thank both the Member and the Minister. Mr Petr Bendl will interpel further the absent Minister of Agriculture on the case Najmr. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u172	Thank you for the floor. Mr. absent Minister of Agriculture, because I have no other way to draw your attention to the fact that not only do you not come to the Chamber of Deputies and, as I have discovered, you also have worse participation in a vote than the Prime Minister has, you also do not answer oral questions, especially written interpelations. I have sent you a written interview through the President of the Chamber of Deputies, namely 21. 12. 2015 on Mr Najmr's case. I don't want to put her in detail here, because it's really for a longer time than the two minutes I have defined, and you haven't answered my question yet. I therefore intercede you on this matter and ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I hope I get an answer this time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u173	Perhaps, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Kučera withdraws the 34th interpellation, so the 35th interpellation will be given by Mr Radim Holeček, who will interpel the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on housing management. It won't, so I'm cutting it off. The last Mr. Petr Bendl again, who will interpel the Minister of Transport on the matter of error...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u174	Thank you. I have been contacted by a citizen who has been writing with the Department of 150 of the Ministry of Transport for a relatively long time on a very technical matter relating to the developed and approved project number 803, which had annex number 3. I gave the Minister all the material necessary to respond to this interpellation before the interview. I wanted to ask if this annex was valid in this project between 2008 and 2014. If not, what it was canceled with. At the same time, I would like to ask if the project was valid - department 150 of the Ministry of Transport in my written information from the letter of 8. 12. 2008 and from the e-mail of mark 67200815 STK 3/2 of Annex 3 denies and gives false information - why the Department of 150 of the Ministry of Transport did not provide relevant information about Annex 3 and thus gave the possibility of damage to both the STK and the controlled car. At the same time, Department 150 of the Ministry of Transport was repeatedly asked to inform the STC concerned with Annex 3 to this project, and this apparently did not happen. Please, Minister, your reaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u175	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u176	Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members, Mr Bendle, through Mr President, I must mention at the outset that there is a uniform methodology for testing the brakes approved by the Ministry of Transport for the STK. This methodology is universal and applies fully to the testing of brakes from vehicles with multiple driven axles. The wheel brakes and brake control system, for example, for vehicles 4 x 4, do not differ significantly from other vehicles, but on condition that the design solution for the wheel drive allows its application. If the vehicle structure does not allow it to be used, a driving test shall be carried out. Since there are many options for 4 x 4 drives, some applications of conventional cylindrical brake test, hereinafter referred to as VZB, allow and others do not. There really is no universal solution. The possibility of using a cylinder brake test in the STK for a specific 4 x 4 drive vehicle is decided by the control technician performing a technical inspection of the vehicle based on his knowledge of the vehicle type, vehicle operator information or experiment. To the experiment it must be added that the cylindrical unit is powered by an electric motor with an input of 2,5 to 3 kilowatts. Circuit speed of cylinders is 4 to 5 kilometers per hour. These are therefore parameters which are lower in order than those transmitted to the wheels of the vehicle. A short-term test, for example, on one propulsion unit, will show whether the vehicle can be tested on a cylindrical test room brake or not. Trying to take the vehicle out of the cylinders large passive wheel resistance, etc. For the vehicle, this experiment does not present any risk of damage. In the past, the Ministry of Transport has commissioned the mentioned research project on the issue of testing brakes of vehicles with 4 x 4, which was part of the project of science and research carried out between 2001 and 2005. For the Ministry of Transport the processor was Dekra Automobile, respectively. Department of Road and Urban Transport. The result of the study summing up knowledge from abroad was that there is no universal solution. They are vehicle structures that allow the test on conventional braking equipment to be done, others do not. The mentioned Annex 3, as well as the project, is not and has never been binding on the operation of the STK, but serves as a basis for further action in the field of brake control. I must also state that there has been no change in the braking stool in their approval for use in the STK from 2008 to 2014. All the opinions issued in the past on this issue were based on the relevant information available. And as far as that annex number 3 is concerned, if you didn't get it or you didn't get it, I'm ready to give it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u177	The last additional question of today. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u178	Do I understand that the annex was valid from 2008 to 2014?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u179	I'll do it again, as I understand it. If I do, I'll confirm it, and I'll answer you. It says here that Annex 3, as well as the project, was not binding on the STK. This meant, valid in the sense that it existed, it was, but it was not binding that it had to work accordingly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-002-231.u180	That was the last interpellation we got an answer for. Thank you to those present. I'm done with the oral questioning tonight and I wish you a good evening.
