ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-001-206.u1	206. Proposal for amendments to the composition of the institutions Chambers of Deputies On the bench, you were handed over to this item by the electoral commission resolution 129 of 8 March this year. I ask the President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník, to take the floor. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-001-206.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, good already afternoon. I don't know whether to be pleased or sad that I'm the first person to get into the proper program today, but I respect the House reality. At least for the electoral committee, I want to say that I am glad because the ballot points are parked, some of them, since February, we have not voted in March, so I believe we will now deal with them. We have a total of four voting points ready. As Mr President has announced, the first number 206 will be proposals for changes in the composition of the institutions, where we will propose, as the electoral committee, that we vote by public vote. I promise I'll try to make my performances brief as much as possible, so I won't keep you long, and I'll give you point 206. We had the last deadline announced by 7 March until 13 o'clock, and we adopted your proposals to the Election Commission on 8 March in resolution 129, which you have distributed on your benches. Under the Rules of Procedure, amendments shall be decided by the vote of the House. It is not proposed how, but we always vote publicly, and I will also propose this today on behalf of the electoral committee. I would therefore recommend first that, after the debate on the proposed candidates, we state the resignation in accordance with resolution 129. These are resignations proposed by the Petition Committee, the resignation of František Laudát from the TOP 09 and the starosta and Martin Komárek from the ANO parliamentary club. Further resignation from the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development Jana Lorencová, also member club of the ANO movement. Then I propose that we decide on nominations with the help of a voting device. It's an exchange inside the two clubs, so there's nothing conflicting. The new nominations are for the petition committee. For the TOP 09 and the Mayor, Mrs Markéta Adamová and FOR YES 2011 Miloslava Rutová. ANO also nominates our new colleague, Mrs Miloslava Rutová, to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Now, Mr President, please open the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-001-206.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm opening the debate. I don't have an application for it. I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the scene. It's not like that. I'm done with the conversation. We will follow the instructions of the President of the Election Commission, and we can therefore vote, Mr President, with one vote on the approval of resignations in the various committees for the three nominees. Does anyone have a reservation? It's not like that. We're going to decide in the 290 vote that I started, and I'm asking who's in favour of accepting those resignations. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 290, comprising 158, for 135, against one. The motion was accepted. Now nominations. Does anyone want to read those nominations again? Yes, the request is for check-out. I'll sign you all out. Please log in with your ID cards. I'm asking if it's possible to vote for all three nominations with one vote? No one objects to the President's procedure. I have begun voting number 291 and I ask who is in favour of nominations for the petition committee and the Public Administration Committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 291, from 139, for 129, against no one. The nominations have been approved. We have a new committee cast. Thank you, Prime Minister. I'm done with point 206. Proceeding with Point
