ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-007-049.u1	49. Government bill amending Act No. 114/1992 Coll., on the conservation of nature and landscape, as amended /house print 739/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Environment Minister Richard Brabec. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-007-049.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The main purpose of this content is relatively small or certainly very small, but the important amendment is to eliminate the non-systemicity and illogicality of current legislation and to exclude the right to compensation for damage caused by difficulties in agricultural or forestry management on land owned by the State. Just for information, for those of you who don't deal with it so often. The financial compensation is legally imposed by nature conservation restrictions provided by state budget funds through the Nature and Landscape Agency of the Czech Republic and National Parks Administrations. The State, the Czech Republic, is the owner of the land covered by the proposed legislation. By excluding from the law the existence of a right to injury arising from or continuing on land owned by the State, the State limits only its right of ownership, not the right of ownership of other entities. The proposed principle, where ownership is limited with the consent of the owner, is a principle of constitutional conformation, which was clearly confirmed above all by the Government Legislative Council, which, of course, dealt with this proposal. The limitation of State ownership is justified by the fact that the beneficiaries of the State-owned land-use restriction are exclusively entities, state-owned undertakings which have been set up by the State for the purpose of ensuring the public interest and are totally against the interests of the State as the owner, in order to at the same time repay to the entities set up by it for the restrictions which it has established by virtue of nature protection. However, for the purpose of its administration, State assets were entrusted to state undertakings free of charge, i.e. unlike private legal and natural persons, State enterprises did not have to incur any financial costs for the acquisition of land. According to the valid wording of the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act, the right to compensation may be exercised either by the owner or by the tenant who legitimately uses land with a limitation of nature protection. The owner shall have the right to compensation granted by law, i.e. if the owner and the tenant apply for compensation in due time, the refund shall be granted only to the owner. In the case where private legal and natural persons manage state land, their management is covered by contracts with state organisations most often with the Nature and Landscape Protection Agency, and the limitations arising from the Nature and Landscape Protection Act are taken into account in these contracts. End of závěr. The compensation for injury will not be paid for injury caused or sustained on land owned by the State. This will prevent transfers of funds within the State, which is the case until now, when state funds are paid in particular to state enterprises for damage to state land on which the State itself declared an interest in nature conservation. At the same time, the proposed amendment will eliminate the inequality between the operators, those who manage the damage on their own land and those who use the state land from another legal exploitation title, and thus will be eliminated by the so-called. a double advantage whereby these private entities lease the land on preferential terms and could at the same time claim compensation for damage to the difficult management. Following the adoption of the amendment, there will be a reduction in the administrative burden on state organisations, which will not seek compensation for injury, by about CZK 992 thousand per year, and subsequently CZK 3.7 million for the authorities responsible for administration for injury, i.e. a total of CZK 3.7 million. I will just conclude by saying that the same legislation exists, for example, in Slovakia, and I think it is completely logical. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-007-049.u3	Thank you, too, Minister. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Robin Böhnisch. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-007-049.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister said this was a brief amendment. Maybe that's an understatement, because it's just one sentence. Although this is not always a condition that there could be no big discussion in order to change the law, there is no real need for a fundamental debate in this case. It's a thing that's been going on for years. I even feel that, in one case, it has already reached the Chamber of Deputies, but not at the end of the legislative process for holding elections. It is really about cutting back on the administration and, at the same time, not paying the State for the damage to the land it owns, so that it does not pour money out of one of its own pockets into its next pocket. The compensation for injury should not be paid for damage caused or sustained on land owned by the State and the transfer of funds within the State will be avoided, where State resources are paid in particular to State enterprises for damage to state land on which the State declared an interest in nature conservation. For your idea, it should be a financial savings of more than CZK 350 million per year for payments to state organisations and then some additional transfers, including administrative burdens of almost CZK million per year. Theoretically affected - affected in quotation marks - will be mainly the Forests of the Czech Republic, which apply claims for damages of approximately CZK 72 million per year. So much for now from me as the rapporteur. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-007-049.u5	Thank you. I am opening a debate to which I am registering two applications. The first to appear is the Member of the Zahradník. Mr Kudela will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-007-049.u6	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on this proposal, which, as the Minister said in his introductory words, is really very simple. In fact, its substance lies in one sentence, which says that entitlement to a financial compensation does not arise for damage caused by or on land owned by the State. It's a simple thing. It is important to remember that we meet, and this is the first, such a formal reminder, we meet in a short time already with the second amendment of Act No. 114. I'm sure you have a vivid memory of the discussion that ran here in the second reading of Act No. 114 on conservation of nature and landscape and which has stirred up media attention. This novel is different. I'm not surprised to the petitioner that he's presenting it as a little off in an effort to maybe cover up the substance and simplify it. Currently on state land, state land is managed, as the Minister said, two types of enterprises, two types of institutions. First of all, they are state institutions, most of the state companies that demand the damage. Sometimes in the budget of the Department of Environment we criticize the fact that damage, compensation is paid with some delay. And the second type is private individuals who, as the Minister said, can arrange it or arrange it as part of the lease agreement with the institution that concludes the contract with them. Okay. This is obvious. However, first of all, it must be acknowledged that even judicial statements recognise that a state enterprise is fully legitimised to claim the right to pay for this damage. The Supreme Court stated this clearly in its statement that, despite the particular atypical nature of the situation in which the administrator of state property claims compensation against the State, it is not the same right-holder and obligation, since the State is the owner of forests or other land, but the state undertaking established by it is a different and independent entity which, under that law, enters into negotiations from the position of the owner of the state property entrusted, is therefore entitled to exercise the rights of the owner to any entity, i.e. also to the State. Finally, the managers of state-owned enterprises are obliged to act with the care of proper economic operators. And when the land they manage appears and causes damage justified by the protection of the environment, they would have this injury, especially in the reduced profits for production achieved on that land, to the one who actually caused the damage, namely to the State. In this case, I object to what the Minister said about the illogical nature of the current situation. Perhaps it might seem equally illogical for state-owned enterprises to pay taxes or pay court expenses that they keep when they actually pay the state-owned enterprise back into the state register. So here I am clearly arguing against the illogicality of this reason. State-owned enterprises are clear. [[Big noise in the hall.]] Privates then rented land in good faith that, if any damage is caused to them, they would be able to agree or, where appropriate, claim to pay the damage to the State under this law. If we were to enter into this, perhaps we could make some long - term contracts unsure by this decision of ours. And then there is one important point that I have to make, one important argument, and the argument that I question this proposal, is that, as it is actually going on to determine the protective conditions, the merits of the proposals put forward by various institutions active in environmental protection to protect certain territories or to protect them more from the environmental protection law. At times, these proposals for the definition of protection areas may seem very purposeful. Sometimes we can see, and even state institutions have said that some proposals to define Natura 2000 territories are specifically intended to prevent the implementation of the projects to be implemented in those territories. Environmentalists want to prevent the implementation of a project that they do not like, and they deal with it indirectly by designing a given territory into a nature conservation regime. This will, of course, significantly complicate the investor's intention. The possibility to apply compensation also, of course, to the State and the State soil is an instrument which keeps nature conservation authorities within certain limits of rationality, so that they do not automatically assume every requirement, every proposal of environmental activists. Here it might be argued that a court might be in charge here in some questionable cases, but we know well that in the case of environmental protection and the proposal, the courts usually assess the formal accuracy of the submissions rather than their substance in substance. [[13.00 hours]] The Ministry's reference report states that claims for damages amount to CZK 350 million per year, which is thus roughly the damage caused by the application of environmental protection to state land. We can ask ourselves how high this amount would be if this correction was missing, this regulation, if basically every requirement to protect nature was only assessed in terms of those arguments brought about by environmentalists and environmental activists. Would that be 350, would that be 700, would that be more? No one can guess. Just for the record, the rapporteur here spoke of the amount of remuneration drawn by the Forests of the Czech Republic. Certainly the highest figure in the amount of the highest beneficiary of the payments, 72 million was mentioned by the rapporteur. The forests of the Czech Republic are managed on the area and from there, from which they farm, 600 thousand hectares are burdened by the damage to which the forests claim compensation. Such a vast area is burdened with environmental protection. I would like to conclude by saying that, despite the fact that the proposal is so simple and it seems that, as the Minister says, logically, I am arguing here with the logic of the state that is here, with some correctness, the ability to correct proposals for environmental protection, and I propose that the situation be maintained, which I want to achieve by proposing that the bill be rejected at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-007-049.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, I am registering your proposal, and then we will vote on it. Next is Mr Kudela's enrollment and Mr Bendl will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-007-049.u8	Mr President, gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, let me also recommend to the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies for discussion the draft law amending Act 114/1992 Coll., on Nature and Landscape Protection. The proposed bill brings substantial financial effects on agricultural operators on state land, as it deprives these entities of the right to compensation for difficulties in agricultural or forestry management due to conservation of nature and landscape. Although it is an amendment to the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act, the subject matter of the proposed regulation concerns the management of state-owned enterprises, which are still legitimate in substance to claim damages arising from the exercise of the rights conferred on the State property. In view of this, I recommend that this House press also be discussed in the Committee on Agriculture, if it is released for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-007-049.u9	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador, I have noted your proposal. Now, therefore, Mr Bendl, duly signed up for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-007-049.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, colleagues, I will have it easier, I will not be so long as I want to join the two proposals that have fallen here. A motion for rejection, because I really do not see the logic in why an organisation managing state property, moving in a normal market environment, which we want by legislation, to manage in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, etc., to implement various environmental measures, and to tell them now: you simply will not receive any funding for those restrictions, even though you are moving in an environment that is market. At least the forests of the Czech Republic are moving in that market environment. I think it is not possible to open the scissors indefinitely and not actually eliminate what Mr Zahradník said here, not to limit the nature and landscape protection authorities, even in the sense that they will have to consider whether or not the financial measures that are still optimal. It seems to me to leave the existing system as the most reasonable and I support the motion to reject it. If it fails, I think it is perfectly logical when the agricultural committee discusses the various chapters of the Ministry of Agriculture, discusses also the report on the state of the management of the Forests of the Czech Republic, their accounts etc., the plan for the development of forests, etc., to discuss this material and its effects, or this law, also the Committee of the Agricultural. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-007-049.u11	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Kučera will now be speaking in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-007-049.u12	Hello, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to support this proposal from the workshop of the Ministry of Environment, which, unlike some of my previous speakers, seems perfectly logical and correct. There were arguments about the distortion of the market environment, there were arguments about when the compensation was compared to the payment of VAT. That sounds like a completely wrong argument to me. On the contrary, here I take it as a simplification of the entire administration, which the TOP 09 has long been applying to. I mean, I find it completely illogical that a replacement... Or what this law is about - for those who have not studied it. More or less, a state enterprise receives compensation for not operating on state land. This sentence itself, I think - or that there is damage from the management of state land. I think this sentence is already talking about some illogicality, or virtually. about some unnecessary bureaucracy that's here. I understand that there will be some losses in terms of financial compensation. They will, of course, go towards the state enterprise, i.e. to the fact that the State transfers money from a state enterprise to a state. But there will clearly be a decline in officials, and there will clearly be a decline in paperwork. And that is another thing that I claim as a member of the TOP 09 and the Mayors, i.e. less paperwork, less bureaucracy, less bureaucracy. This is indeed a trend that we must go through. I mean, there's also a little bit of a balance between the starting position that the state and the privates are supposed to be managing in the woods, in the fields or in the ponds in protected areas. Compensation at that point will only be made by private individuals, not by the state, as it is now. And at the same time, of course, the unnecessary transfer of money from one state pocket to another will be abolished. Indeed, and I am not alone, of course, this has also been said from various sides, whether it concerns both the Ministry and nature conservation organisations, it just seems absurd to me that the State should pay the State that it protects nature on its land. Here was an example, I will use it that the forests of the Czech Republic do not treat the national nature reserve of the Boubín forest as a normal economic forest, they receive two million crowns a year from the state, i.e. that for the fact that the state forests do not cut us down, to say the public, Boubín, so they will receive two million crowns, which I find really absurd, and I am glad that the Minister of the Environment has come up with this proposal to encourage the activities that have been going on in the long run, and this law has been passed by the Ministry here. Millions of damage is also paid in Křivoklátsko, where, as you know, in the nearby - hopefully in the near future a national park will be created. [[13.10 hours]] Finally, I want to say at the first reading that, of course, there is a big debate here. There is a debate here from logic, a party that wants less bureaucracy, less office, that wants to eliminate such illogicalness, and of course it wants to protect our landscape and nature. And there will be discussions here of those who, of course, succumb to the pressure of the Forests of the Czech Republic, which there have quite a lot of interests in this matter. I think that during the House hearing, it will show who's who. I think it will begin to manifest itself in those discussions just after this first reading. I don't mean to be wrong, of course opinions can be different. I hope that the view of logic and the view of nature protection over that business view, for example, will prevail here. in the forest of Boubín. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-007-049.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm recording two factual points. Mr Zahradník has the first, Mr Bendl will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-007-049.u14	Mr President, thank you for the floor. First of all, it is necessary to add and specify that it is not one pocket - the state and the state enterprise. It's not one cash register. The State enterprise is a different and independent entity in relation to the State, says the Supreme Court judicature. The state-owned company acts as the owner of the entrusted state property and is therefore entitled to exercise the rights of the owner in the course of this activity and, at the same time, it is obliged to exercise the rights of the owner, against any entity, i.e. against the State. So that's one thing. Two. I must reject the demagogy that Mr Kučera here has shown by talking about the Boubín Forest. Of course, it's a cultural monument that's been here for centuries. But I fear that new and new protected territories, as environmentalists, environmental activists have recently gained enormous power over our lives, will not be declared. Terrific power is demonstrated and applied by environmental activists. Remember the EIA Act, Amendment 114, which we will probably discuss at third reading at the end of June. And this is another tool for them, so that they can assert their ideas, their ideologies without disturbing their intentions, their ideologies, by declaring protected territories without becoming bound by some sort of primitive economic correction. Any damage resulting from excessive environmental protection must be paid simply and clearly. So I think we need to keep this situation here. Arguing by some kind of simplification, I think it would be a very expensive tax for this simplification, that we would have more and more of our country's territory protected by some environmental protection regime. I'd like to warn you about that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-007-049.u15	Thank you. Now, Mr Bendl, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-007-049.u16	Thank you. I have two notes. Nor does the explanatory memorandum indicate any reduction in the number of officials, etc. It doesn't have anything to do with anything like that. Those obligations will continue to remain with the authorities and organisations concerned, only they will not be compensated for the reduction of the management for which they are responsible. It's not like this fellow Zahradník said, one pocket. It is not a spillover of funds from one clean chapter of the state budget to another, but it is taking from the budget a legitimately managed organisation and forgiving at the expense of the state, which I think is unfair and sets unequal conditions in the economy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-03-ps2013-047-08-007-049.u17	Thank you. And I ask if anyone else is still reporting to the general debate. I don't see anyone. If that is the case, I will end the general debate and ask for final words. Neither the appellant nor the rapporteur wants a final word. During the general debate, Mr Zahradník, supported by Mr Bendl, the motion to reject the proposal. I shall call on my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby to vote on the proposal. I'll do it again. We shall vote on the motion to reject the proposal. I'm registering the check-out request. So I'm going to sign you all off, and you're going to have to sign up with your cards again. And I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of the motion to dismiss, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 392, registered 108 Members, for proposal 10, against 87. This proposal was rejected. That is why we will now consider the proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? I don't see a suggestion. In that case, I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee, to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 393, registered 110 Members and Members, for proposal 105, against no one. I note that this proposal has been directed to the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Anyway, in the general debate, Mr Kudela's proposal was made and was supported by Mr Bendl to be directed to the agricultural committee. Do I ask if anyone has a motion for another commandment to the committee or committees? I don't see another suggestion. In that case, I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the commandment of this press to the agricultural committee. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 394, registered 112 Members of Parliament, for proposal 91, against 12. I am therefore of the opinion that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the agricultural committee as another committee, and I conclude on this point. The next item in today's meeting I'm opening is:
