ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another day of session 42 of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. I'd like you all to sign up with the identification crews and, if necessary, let me know who's applying for a replacement card. Mr Velebný has a replacement card today, card number 3, and card number 15 is Mr Adam. I am saying that the following Members asked to apologize for their absence at today's meeting: Vojtěch Adam from 14:00 for health reasons, František Adámek due to foreign travel, Ondřej Benešík due to foreign travel, Marek Černoch for health reasons, Karel Fiedler from 11 to 14 hours for health reasons, Jana Fischerová for health reasons, Ivan Gabal for family reasons, Stanislav Grospič due to foreign travel. Mr Josef Hájek, Vice-President Jaroslava Jermanová from 11 to 14 for work reasons, David Kádner from 16 hours for work reasons, Simeon Karamazov for personal reasons, Vladimír Koníček from 12 to 14 hours for work reasons, Radka Maxová due to foreign travel, Nina Nováková until 15 hours for work reasons, Josef Novotný for work reasons, Igor Nykl for health reasons, Pavlína Nytrová for personal reasons, Pavel Plzák for personal reasons, Adam Rykala for family reasons, Miroslava Strnadlová for afternoon meetings for personal reasons, Dana Váhalová for foreign travel reasons, Josef Vondrášek for health reasons and Jiří Zlatuška for reasons of foreign travel. Today the following members of the government apologize: until 15.30 Andrej Babiš for work reasons, Pavel Bělobrádek due to foreign travel, Svatopluk Němeček for work reasons, Robert Pelikán for health reasons, Kateřina Valachová for work reasons and Lubomír Zaorálek from 13:00 for work reasons. [[There's unimaginable noise in the room.]] With the replacement card number 17, Mr Kořenek will be voting today. With the replacement card number 19, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka will be voting today. Mr Lank shall report with priority rights. I ask you, colleagues, to take your seats, because the Chamber of Deputies has already launched its day of session. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I made a bit of an announcement yesterday when we voted on our resolutions that we proposed. But since the result was what it was, now I have no choice but to appear before you, I confess, with a little bit longer speech, but I think it needs to be said and it needs to be heard. Allow me to speak on behalf of our assembly club on the agenda of today's House. Yesterday, after the tragic events in Brussels, which claimed dozens of dead and injured, the government coalition and opposition seemed to find an exceptionally common speech without exaggeration in the interests of the security of our Czech Republic. But what happened? The Prime Minister here told us a story about the strong V4 and how he wants the strong V4 and how important it is for the security of the Czech Republic. [[The noise intensity in the hall is high.]] In fact, the government did not support Slovak Prime Minister Fic's action against Brussels on migration quotas. In fact, the government also refused to write a referendum on immigration quotas in the Czech Republic, as they did in Hungary. In other words, it can be said that this government is holding the line with Mrs Merklová and is obediently assisting Brussels in building Potěmkinův's villages of common defence of the European Union against immigrants. Really, therefore, the government does not hold the bass with V representatives, because Prime Minister Sobotka does not have the courage to stand up to the side of Orbán or Fic in Brussels in key matters. Yesterday, we asked the Prime Minister to answer why he did not respect the resolution of the Committee on European Affairs. And I realize that maybe you don't really care, after all, it's just a committee resolution that has the weight of the entire House. But maybe I'll wait until you have a minute to hear it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-000-000.u3	Colleagues and colleagues, I'm asking you to keep your voice down so that you can hear what's being lectured here. For the sake of clarity, I say that each Member has five minutes to justify the proposal for a change of programme. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-000-000.u4	I have signed up with priority rights, Mr President. As I say, yesterday we asked the Prime Minister to answer why he did not respect the resolution of the Committee on European Affairs rejecting Turkey's fatal concessions. President Marek Černoch, who is unfortunately ill today, has pushed the Committee on European Affairs with the support of the ODS for a major resolution that the Prime Minister has failed to respect. Ladies and gentlemen, this state will pay a fine to a citizen for paying taxes a day later, in other words, consistently enforces their duties on citizens. Why should we not now enforce the responsibilities of the Prime Minister towards the House, in addition to the citizens? The House is not just a legislature. According to the Constitution, the House is also a supervisory authority towards the power of the government. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let me ask the Prime Minister again to explain why he did not respect the resolution of the Committee on European Affairs on Turkey. Why is the Prime Minister bragging about the conclusion of the Balkan route, when he supported the new and completely legal Balkan route in Brussels with an agreement with Turkey. Turkey has never satisfactorily disproved cooperation with the Islamic State, and this needs to be realised. Visa-free for the Turek means free entry for the Islamic radicals and terrorists of the Islamic State. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Dawn Parliamentary Club will request the consideration of specific anti-terrorist and anti-immigration laws, because we have mostly presented them to the House last year, and to this day they are parked here in the House without discussion. I am convinced that, in the current situation, we may have greater priorities than what nest belongs to, for example, the Czech Republic doing its utmost to make its citizens feel safe. I'll leave comments on the individual laws that we want to include on my wheels. Let me sum up, first of all, the amendment to the Criminal Code, which prohibits the service of the Islamic State army, which is not covered by Czech legislation today. Secondly, it is a law against terrorism. This is specifically an automatic link for suspected terrorism, the criminal liability of legal persons for supporting terrorism and, in my view, the most important thing - the extension of the crime of promoting terrorism and the financing of activities indirectly linked to terrorism. In other words, any assistance to terrorists, not only the supply of bombs and weapons, but also the provision of facilities or non-financial support, should be criminal. I note that the Slovak Parliament has adopted this law across the political spectrum, and we do not present anything but, if you wish, a Slovak plagiat, to which the simple question applies: If it works in Slovakia, why couldn't it, ladies and gentlemen, work with us? [[9.10 hours]] Thirdly, we want to approve the Act on the referendum on immigration quotas, where we want to give the government a clear mandate to reject them. In other words, if the Prime Minister did not really want to tell us a fairy tale yesterday about a strong uniform V4, we ask for the support of Hungary to hold a referendum against quotas following his example. The last law is the law on detention facilities outside the territory of the Czech Republic. Thanks to this law, we should move all asylum procedures with illegal immigrants to the countries from which immigrants come to us. For example, Syria or North Africa. Yesterday, some colleagues from other parties raised this idea here, so I hope now that you will be able to support it. For the time being, thank you for your attention and allow me to use my priority right to comment on the agenda of the meeting following the presentation of specific proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-000-000.u5	I am currently registering four applications with a proposal to change the program. Mr. Martin Lank has his first application here... [[Inconvenient votes, given that Mr Lank has just stepped up.]] Mrs Jana Hnyková will be ready. In that case, Mrs Jana Hnyková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-000-000.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you good morning. I would like to propose a prioritization of paragraph 118. This is a proposal to issue a law on detention centres for illegal immigrants in foreign states, House press 657. I propose that the law be firmly placed as the first point today. This is a draft law to set up a detention facility outside the territory of the Czech Republic. The immigrant detention facility, which is now in the Czech Republic, would move to third countries. We should put all illegal immigrants and immigrants detained in those facilities who will be relocated to the Czech Republic from the Member States of the European Union on the basis of mandatory quotas. If you're asking where we should set up such facilities, these are primarily places where illegal immigrants are flowing to us. There are three main access routes to the European Union - Spanish, Italian and Greek. While Spain is managing the situation, Africa's immigration and the Middle East are mainly flowing through Italy. For the Italian journey, Libya appears as a natural center, across the Greek road of northern Syria. The detention centre shall be set up on the ground on the basis of an international agreement to be concluded with the relevant State. All the specific operating conditions of the relevant centre will therefore be based on the international treaties. Very often, the reaction can be heard that these states are not interested in such agreements. The opposite is true. For example, for Syria, the tide of huge masses of inhabitants is a major problem. When the Islamic State is defeated, there will not be enough inhabitants to embark on the restoration of the devastated land. It is therefore a high concern of such affected countries to stop immigration and try to bring their people back. [[It's busy in the hall.]] The Act envisages with the duty of the Office for the resettlement of illegal migrants to coordinate the procedure with other Member States of the European Union in setting up detention centres for the relocation of illegal migrants from the Czech Republic. It is therefore possible to create international cooperation facilities as well. I heard several Czech politicians talking about this proposal here yesterday. We didn't just stick to words, and we incorporated this proposal into the bill. I challenge all of you - let's just stop talking about problems, but let's start dealing with them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-000-000.u7	Thank you. Next is Mr David Kádner and Mrs Olga Havlová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-000-000.u8	Thank you. Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose, by this way, a pre-position of paragraph 120, House press 670, a proposal for a law against terrorism. I propose that this law be discussed today as the second item for a fixed item. Yesterday's terrorist attacks by the Islamic State are a terrible tragedy. Of course, they will be useless if we do not learn from them at all. As in other areas of national security, the Czech Government has done absolutely nothing in the field of counterterrorism legislation. Perhaps all states in Europe are tightening up and amending their laws because the security situation in Europe is getting worse every day. The government's words are still the same. There will be terrorist attacks on Charlie Hebdo - the Czech government will condemn it, say we must be strong and remain calm. There will be terrorist attacks in France, once again to keep calm and stick together. Now there will be terrorist attacks in Brussels, the Prime Minister will say it's our fight together, expressing his condolences, but that's basically all. No real measures that would allow us to act more effectively against Islamic terrorism will be taken. We reject this ostrich act. Terrorism must be faced harshly and uncompromisingly. When the Czech Government is unable to admit that laws need to be changed, we have put forward a substantial tightening of anti-terrorist laws. We took an example in Slovakia. It is a country from which we should take a model not only in the field of anti-terrorist legislation, but also in the area of rejection of quotas and bringing an action to the European Court of Strasbourg. Prime Minister Fico, for example, guaranteed Slovak citizens that they would not allow a comprehensive Islamic community to develop. This is the reaction of a strong and sovereign state. Laws in Slovakia are very similar to those in our country, and Ficův's government was not afraid to admit that there were gaps in Slovakia. This package in Slovakia went through lightning. Unlike us, where we have nothing. Our proposal is therefore the adoption of counter-terrorism measures from Slovakia, which were adopted in an accelerated procedure. This is specifically an automatic link for suspected terrorism, the criminal liability of legal entities for supporting terrorism and, in my view, the most important thing - the extension of the crime of promoting terrorism and the financing of their activities indirectly related to terrorism. In other words, any assistance to terrorists, not only the supply of bombs and weapons, but also the provision of facilities or non-financial support, will be criminal. This is exactly the kind of support that has long been given hidden Islamic cells in Western Europe, which then commit bloody terrorist attacks. The Czech Government quite incomprehensiblely identifies the law as unconstitutional and contrary to European regulations. Even though it was accepted without any problems in Slovakia. The Government's position is purely purposeful. The government doesn't even criticize the measures itself, but it seeks alternative pseudo-reasons. He even states in his reasoning that Members should not make such proposals that this is the government's task. We're basically okay with that. It is primarily the responsibility of the government's security policy of the proper government. But what should we do when the government has long underestimated terrorism? I also appeal to you in the shadow of yesterday's terrorist attacks to which the Islamic State is reporting: Let us take immediate action before it is too late. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-000-000.u9	Thank you. Next is Mrs Olga Havlová, Mr Zavadil will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-000-000.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, dear government, I ask for the inclusion of an extraordinary item of the programme at today's meeting as the fourth item entitled Support for the Czech Republic by the Kurdish militia in Syria in the fight against the Islamic State. And for whom do I want this support? YPGs are Kurdish combat units that fight mainly on Syria's territory, units that bear the greatest weight of ground operations against the Islamic State. They are units capable of leading the ground offensive and of defeating the Islamic State. Now these troops are pulling to one of the main fortresses of the Islamic State, the city of Rakka. Unlike the Iraqi army and the Iraqi Kurd, they receive only minimal material support and are currently fighting outdated weapons without any ballistic equipment and other equipment such as fasteners, night vision, etc. These units are a big thorn in the eye for Turkey, which buys oil from the Islamic State and, on the contrary, supplies the Islamic State with weapons and logistical support, such as hospitals at the Turkish-Syrian border. In January, the government approved assistance for Iraq and Jordan, where we deliver 6.5,000 assault rifles and machine guns to Iraq in support of the fight against terrorism, plus 7 miles. pieces of ammunition and another 7 miles. pieces of ammunition to Jordan. Do those most in need get this help? The kingdom of Jordan is a relatively rich country that participates in the fight against the Islamic State by air strikes. Iraqi soldiers are very well armed, supported by the United States of America. What's the difference between fighters in Iraq and Syria? In Iraq, you can meet soldiers who are equipped with ballistic vests and helmets, using armored vehicles in civilian and military designs, not suffering from a lack of ammunition or logistical support. The situation changes by crossing the Syrian border, at checkpoints you meet armed civilians, militia members, or men and women in uniforms, members of YPG and YPJ, who are armed with various variants of AK 74, without ballistic protection equipment, in conjunction with one or two containers. Yet it is these people who bear the greatest weight of ground fighting on their shoulders. In the following days, Chief Commander YPJ Nesrin Abdullah will visit the Czech Republic and I expect that not only the Ministry of Defence will communicate with it, but at the same time I call on the members of the government to meet it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-000-000.u11	Thank you. Now, Mr Zavadil, with a proposal to amend the agenda for the meeting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-000-000.u12	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr President. My proposal will be very short and simple. We didn't discuss the last item yesterday, item 107 of Law 592. I would ask that this law or this proposal be allowed to be discussed after these points, and I ask the House for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-000-000.u13	Thank you for your suggestion. Mr. Lank, please. Your five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-000-000.u14	Good morning again. As I have announced, I would like to ask for a priority discussion of paragraph 98, House Press 525, today as the first point of the negotiations, or after the fixed points. This law solves another problem which the Czech Government, in our view, quite shamefully neglects, and it is already mentioned European citizens who are going to serve in the army of the Islamic State. The Islamic State will train these fighters, fanate them even more, give them weapons or explosives. These radical Islamic fighters, originally Evropan, then fight against us, against European civilization, either in place or worse, after training they return to Europe, where they have lived for a long time and where, thanks to knowledge of the local environment, terrorist attacks are committed in the name of the Islamic State. According to U.S. intelligence services, more than 38,000 people who have gone to Syria and Iraq from around hundreds of countries around the world have been strengthened by Islamic State fighters since 2012. According to the head of Europol, 3 to 5,000 European Union nationals returned to Europe after training at the Islamic State, who are able to carry out terrorist attacks similar to those seen in Paris and most recently in Brussels. According to the head of Europol, Europe has been facing the greatest threat of terrorist attacks in the last ten years. Our bill is aimed very precisely at one of the holes that have Czech laws, which in many cases simply are unable to respond to new threats. When we did a seminar on this topic last May, we heard from security experts that there is no way to underestimate the risk of Islamic terrorism in our country. Just because the security services don't have information about him doesn't mean there's no real threat of an attack. The problem with the current criminal code is that it does not prohibit service for Czech citizens to the Islamic State, which is of course not recognised under international law as a full state. The law only operates with a ban on the service of the armed forces of another state, i.e. a state which is internationally recognised. This does not apply to those who leave for the Islamic State and from whom there is the greatest danger. We are therefore changing this key paragraph so that it applies to any other foreign factor. Which also brings hybrid formations of the Islamic State to his viewfinder. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to discuss this law in advance, which strengthens the security of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-000-000.u15	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is applying to change the agenda for the meeting. I can't see. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote. I'm registering five requests today to change the program. The first is Mrs Hnyková's proposal that item 118 be placed as the first item of today's day. Initiating vote. I'm registering a request for your check-out. In that case, I apologise, I declare the vote misguided. I'll check you all out and ask you to sign up with your cards. I'll repeat what we're going to vote on. There is Mrs Hnyková's proposal that item 118 should be included as the first item of today's meeting day. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 370; 157 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 11, against 115. This proposal was rejected. Next, Mr Kádner's proposal is that item 120 should be included as the second item on today's day. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 371, with 160 Members registered, for proposal 11, against 123. The motion was denied. Furthermore, there is a proposal by Mrs Havlová to include a point of support for Kurdish militias in Syria's territory in the fight against the Islamic State. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 372, registered 160 Members and Members, for proposal 17, against 73. The motion was denied. Next, Mr Zavadil's proposal to include item 107 on today's programme after the already fixed points. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 373; 162 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 143, against 5. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been approved. [[9.30 hours]] And as the last proposal to amend the programme, Mr Lank, who wants item 98 to be the first item in today's meeting. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, as it has been put forward, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 374, with 164 Members registered, for proposal 11, against 81. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been rejected. So today's negotiations will begin with points from the third reading block, namely paragraphs 153, 154, 172 and 173. Then we would deal with other firmly classified points 52, 53, 44, 21, 22, 13, 57 and today approved point 107. I would remind you that the 43rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will begin at 15.30. Before I open the first point, I'll read some more apologies that have arrived. Today from 9 a.m. to 10.45 p.m., Mr. Jiří Koubek apologizes for working reasons, on 23 p.m. 3. from 9 to 14 o'clock, Mrs Adamová apologizes because of the illness, and within 10 o'clock, Mr Šarapatka apologises for the reasons of work. Furthermore, Minister Pelikán cancels his apology for today, and from 13:30 to 14:30 he apologises because of the acceptance of the foreign delegation by Member Leo Luzar. So I open the first point of today's negotiations, and that is
