ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u1	220. Oral inhalation which are intended for the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifiers, we have drawn the ranking of Members in which they will speak and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka or the Czech Government, from 14.30 to 16.00. To other members of the government from 16 to 18 o'clock. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I now give the floor to Ms Dana Váhalová, who was drawn in the first place to present an oral interview with the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Bohuslav Sobotka. And Mr. Antonín Seďa will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the field of transport construction in the Czech Republic and related investment in construction, which helps to maintain economic growth, there is a problem of inadequate EIA assessments, which means environmental impacts. Today, information about the EU exemption for the Czech Republic for ten buildings per 46 billion has already appeared in the media. Crowns. Can you inform us more about the results of the meetings of representatives of the Czech Republic with the EU? Will the EU's resources really not be threatened in this very important area for us? And are all the buildings covered? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u3	I thank you and ask the Prime Minister to answer your question. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u4	Thank you. Madam, honourable Members, Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, I am pleased to confirm here that the information that appeared in the media yesterday and today is based on the truth. There are not many good news today after brexit and in the light of various terrorist attacks and other problems. This is good news for the Czech Republic, I think. As you know, for about ten years, we have had an unresolved problem with old environmental assessments here, and also with the fact that for ten years, the Czech Republic either did not want or was unable to harmonise our Environmental Impact Assessment Act with the rules that apply throughout the EU. We have implemented harmonisation under the mandate of our government, allowing, among other things, to draw tens of billions of crowns in the old financial perspective. However, I would consider it absurd that the Czech Republic should be punished for harmonizing the EIA by actually punishing buildings where we have purchased land, where we are at an advanced stage of preparation, where we have very often territorial decisions, are constructions prepared to be launched so that the European Commission will punish us by saying: You must make a new EIA everywhere. We don't care how things are prepared, how they're worked out. We do not care that you have European funds prepared for this. So we acted for a year. It wasn't easy. They acted as representatives of the Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Transport, both ministers. A few months ago, I joined the matter personally, because I see it as an important priority for the Prime Minister as well. I have dealt with the relevant Commissioner, who is in charge of the environment. I have also dealt repeatedly with the President of the European Commission. And I am glad that we have found a solution that will enable the Czech Republic to implement what we wanted. This means, where we have key transport constructions prepared, we can accelerate the environmental impact assessment by a special law and then, on the basis of the activities of the Government and the Ministers of Environment and Transport, and where other buildings are not so significant or not at an advanced stage of preparation, a new assessment has been started. That means a new EIA will be judged. I will first stop at those buildings that are not covered by this exemption project. It's over 80 buildings that have an EIA that's ten, fifteen years old. At the beginning of this year, the Ministry of Transport started collecting data for the preparation of a request for a new environmental impact assessment. I think it was the right decision. At the same time, the Ministry of the Environment examined all processes and prepared a system of maximum speedy processing of applications for a new EIA. Thus, this concerns constructions which are not part of this rapid process agreed with the European Commission, but the rapid process essentially affects constructions that are at an advanced stage of preparation. We have purchased land there, and it's buildings that are part of the trans-European transport network. This means that we have tried to appeal to the importance of communication here, whether by road or by rail, which connects Europe, and we want to finance it with European money. The essence of the agreement with the European Commission is that if we can quickly pass a law, a special law - and I want to thank the Chamber of Deputies because yesterday this bill passed here in an accelerated reading. I also want to thank the representatives of the opposition parties for not blocking the law, because here I think they preferred the interest of the Republic, and it is undoubtedly appropriate. So Parliament - The House has already approved the proposal. I firmly believe the Senate will approve it soon. And then she can follow the accelerated procedure of verification opinions as part of the environmental impact assessment. Then it will be necessary for appropriate building permits to be issued, organized competitions. And I believe that for a number of these constructions, out of the ten keys, there is a great chance that they will be built during 2017. Of course, it will depend on how quickly the relevant selection procedures will go and how quickly the construction works will be able to obtain appropriate building permits. The European Commission confirmed - I confirmed it again this week with the President of the European Commission - that European funds could be used for all these buildings under the procedure. And I think that's the second important effect that we've achieved. This means that European funds in the OPD 2 will not fall, and the money that was intended for transport will also be able to be spent on transport.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister, for keeping time. I ask, the Member will not have an additional question. Okay. [[It won't.]] Let's move on. Second, Mr Antonín Seďa was drawn and Mr Adolf Beznoska prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Prime Minister, although you have answered a similar question by my colleague, I will allow myself to elaborate on the problem, because I consider the problem of stopping transport structures to be very serious. Yesterday, as you mentioned, an amendment to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, which the government is addressing the problem of halting transport structures, was approved. During the discussion, there was a discussion where, among other things, the solution of all the buildings for which a new EIA is required was drawn up. It also highlighted the problem of future financing of transport structures, and even the responsibility of individual members of the government for this situation. For this reason, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you, where you see the fundamental missteps or the personal responsibility of the members of the government for the situation that we have been in. Further, how, and you have already indicated something in the previous answer, and in what time horizon a new environmental impact assessment will be carried out for the next about 90 priority buildings. [[14.40 hours]] Surely we agree, Prime Minister, that the construction of transport infrastructure is important for the development and supply of further investment, for increasing competitiveness or increasing employment, further reducing costs and helping to increase the country's economic growth. That is why I want to ask whether the government is addressing the financing of these buildings after 2020, when the programming period and the European Union's assistance in financing all transport structures will end. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u7	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask the Prime Minister to answer your question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u8	Thank you. Dear Member, if I can start with where I think this is a mistake, I think the mistake is that the previous governments, and there were a number of them, either they didn't have the courage to solve the problem, or they didn't have the will, or they didn't have the time to solve the problem. It just happened that it was waiting for us. The moment our government came to government responsibility in the spring of 2014, we were able to make a decision. Either we move this thing away, we don't bite the bitter apple to reconcile the environmental impact assessment conditions, we lose tens of billions of crowns from European funds, and we don't start building any of the new ones, or we solve the problem, and despite the criticism that we've been given, we won't be able to build anything in our country if the EIA harmonizes, so we're going to push through the proposal. We chose the other way, and I am convinced that we did well in the long run, because we didn't leave it to the next government again, we just didn't hand over the problem to our successors, but we are really solving the problem. It's obvious that this isn't easy. It takes a lot of effort, too. I am glad that our intention, which we have set out, is to have a new EIA, not to jeopardize the use of European resources and for buildings that are actually ready, to ensure that the new EIA does not delay us, that perhaps we are heading towards this goal. I would probably just use it to mention the key structures that are involved, because they essentially cover the whole republic, and I think it's worth reminding them, because it's actually ten complexes. The first one concerns D3 bypass of České Budějovice, where it is the sections of Úsilné - Hodějovice and Hodějovice - Trebonín, which are actually sections which mean the passage of D3 around České Budějovice. Nearly all sections to the border of České Budějovice are already under construction, and now we need us not to slow down. Next thing you know, it's about D6. There are Ravničov, Lubenec and Krusovic bypasses. D6 is a key communication that connects Prague and the Karlovy Vary Region. Then there is D48, bypassing Frýdek-Místek, again very important communication, especially for the city of Frýdek-Místek and its surroundings. D35, the highway we've been talking about for 25 years. She hasn't really started to build yet. We only have an off-level intersection at Opatovic, but we don't have anything else. Here are the first two sections of D35 to which we have this exception, and it will be possible to Opatovice nad Labem - Times and Times - Island to accelerate construction. D49, it's in Zlin County, Hulín - Frysták. Again, something that awaits a very long time. Slavovice, D55, bypass Slavovice. It is again on this list agreed with the European Commission. D11, Hradec Králové - Smiřice, a new section of D11 from Hradec towards Poland, already purchased land, archaeological research is being prepared, once again there is a chance to start building relatively soon. 1/11, Ostrava - extended Red. D1, Říkovice - Přerov, once again an important section for the completion of D1. The last building is a railroad. It is a modernization of the railway line Sudoměřice - Votice. These are the concrete buildings we're going to use the special law that passed yesterday in the House. Once ready, it will be approved, it will be effective, so the Ministry of Environment will be able to initiate the appropriate procedure so as to speed up construction in this area. As to what will happen to the other buildings, as I have already said, data collection and documentation for a new environmental impact assessment has been initiated under the existing laws. I am based on the fact that the vast majority of these buildings are not prepared so that the acquisition of the new EIA really delays us when it comes to starting them. Of course, there may be exceptions, but unfortunately in the vast majority of these buildings are in a state as we took over, in the sense that it was not invested in their preparation, it was not invested in the purchase of land, it was not invested in project preparation, so many of these buildings, although they have EIA, which is 15 years old, are not actually prepared. There will be a new EIA and it will be possible to move forward. Most of them are buildings that don't have territorial decisions yet. I think that's also important to remind you. This means that the approximately 80 buildings with the old EIA do not have an overwhelming majority of territorial decisions, so first there will be a need to obtain a territorial decision, then a building permit and then start building. The package of ten buildings is at least 50 billion. The koruna, that means about 50 billion. CZK can be used from European funds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u9	I apologize, Prime Minister, for entering your speech. I will ask the Member to ask you a supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u10	Thank you. Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answers. It turns out that delayed problems will always become expensive and require considerable efforts to remedy them. I would like to recall what was said yesterday in the debate, and that is whether the government is dealing with the financing of buildings after 2020, if you could at least say, because we all know that this can be a big problem, and time is running very quickly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u11	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u12	So far, there is no long-term conceptual solution on the table to finance the construction of transport infrastructure at the time. I think that we must count on the need to find more national resources, that there will probably not be so much money from European funds. We are now dealing with a slightly different problem in order to be able to spend European funds properly and meaningfully in time. So now it's something that we focus on, so that the money that was earmarked for transport infrastructure doesn't go to waste. That's why the EIA solution with the European Commission is a hell of a way to keep us from losing money in the Transport Operational Programme 2. But as for the future concept, I am convinced that it is necessary to count on the state to choose a little more on the toll. In the future, there must be a discussion on what extent of communication will be charged in terms of truck traffic. At the same time, the myth should also be rationally compared in time, of course, so that it does not harm the competitiveness of our entrepreneurs. In the future, too, there is an open question as to whether a larger share of the excise duty collected from fuel should go precisely to finance the transport fund if we no longer receive money from European funds in the future. I think that this is not an actual problem by 2020, because we have guaranteed funding from European funds, and if the Czech economy succeeds, I think we will have a real chance to invest massively in transport infrastructure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u13	Thank you. Another one with an interview, as a third, was drawn by Mr Adolf Beznoska, but I don't see him anywhere here. Since he's not present, his interpellation is failing. Next is Mrs Helena Langšádlová and Mr Pavel Ploc will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u14	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to address you on the subject of foreign and security policy. The disinformation campaign organized and supported by the Russian Federation intervenes intensively on the Czech territory. You personally, your Secretary of State for European Affairs or other members of your cabinet are speaking publicly about this risk. I'd like to appreciate that. In this context, however, I would like to ask why the Czech Republic has not yet become a participating state on the NATO Centre of Excellence project in Riga. According to my information in this key alliance center on the topic of Russian disinformation campaign, the Czech Republic does not yet have its representative, which I consider to be wrong. I would like to ask you for information as to why this is not the case and what the next step will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u15	Thank you, too, Madame. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u16	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, first of all, to the centre of excellence of NATO's strategic communication, which is to be consulted. Then I would comment on the matter of relations with the Czech Republic. The idea of creating an expert centre within NATO focused on strategic communication dates back to the turn of 2012 and 2013. The Centre was established by signing the Memorandum on 1 July 2014 with the participation of seven countries. The Czech Republic was not among the seven founding or initiative countries. Followed by the process of accreditation of the Centre by the Alliance Headquarters for Transformation. A positive result of accreditation was then approved by the North Atlantic Council on 1 September 2014, and this has also officially started the operation of this NATO Strategic Communications Centre. The mission of the Centre should be to contribute to the communication process in order to ensure that the Alliance communicates adequately, in a timely, accurate, relevant way about what is actually taking place in the Alliance, the objectives, the tasks that the Alliance has. The Centre should provide comprehensive analyses, recommendations and practical support for the North Atlantic Alliance. The Centre should develop the doctrine of communication programming, conduct research in order to find practical solutions to current communication problems. It should use experts from different sectors, civil, military, academic and private sectors to support policy-making planning and practice within the framework of the activities of this centre. The Centre is also quite intensively engaged in analysing methods of information campaign applied by, for example, Russia, which is not conceptually possible to separate from the examination of Russian military strategy and Russian military doctrine as such. The Czech Republic, and for the Czech Republic it is a matter that the Ministry of Defence is in charge of, is currently considering the potential contribution of its involvement in the activities of this centre. I am convinced that involvement could bring about a number of interesting opportunities. Therefore, the possibility of using cooperation as regards the creation of a strategic communication concept is considered as regards the acquisition of new capabilities and capacities in particular by the Ministry of Defence for Communication. It would probably make it easier for us to participate in the Centre to use the professional courses and trainings that are organised there. After all, I think that our participation in these activities would be another visible engagement in addressing the current issues of the Alliance's security, and I think that it could also strengthen our bilateral relations with those countries that are actively involved in the Centre's activities. I think it could also help us in an immediate analysis of developments in the region. I therefore assume that the Ministry of Defence should evaluate in a relatively short time the possible benefits that would be there for the Czech Republic in terms of our participation in this structure, that is, the centre of excellence of the strategic communication of the North Atlantic Alliance. As far as my personal position is concerned, I believe that this could be a source of useful knowledge and experience for the communication capabilities of the Ministry of Defence, the Army of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u17	Thank you, Prime Minister. The honourable Member is obviously going to ask a supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u18	Prime Minister, thank you so much for enlightening us on the objectives of the center. However, the project has actually been working for almost two years now. I think that the Czech Republic should have had a representative there a long time ago, so I ask you, because this is a really strategic issue - even if it falls under the Ministry of Defence's mandate, I believe that you are being informed about such fundamental issues and that you yourself are politically deciding what is a priority. And I consider this a priority. That's why I'm asking you once again if our deputy will be there, when he'll be there, and if you can keep us informed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u19	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u20	I must say that this is certainly a very specific area of the North Atlantic Alliance's activities. As the Member knows, the Czech Republic is one of the active members of NATO and we are trying to follow new trends, we are trying to follow new projects and we are always carefully considering whether we have the strength and capacity to participate in them, and whether they are projects that may mean some added value to us in terms of the ability to provide defence and, of course, in terms of the ability to cooperate with our projects. I would like to thank the lady for pointing out this issue. I will certainly take advantage of the opportunity to consult this topic with the Minister of Defence, to request information about the current state of mind that is being held at the Ministry of Defence, and then my personal opinion that I will apply in this discussion is that I would consider it useful if the Czech Republic were to participate in this Alliance activity, because it is clear that we are meeting in today's communication environment with a whole range of information and disinformation, and it would be good for us to be able to communicate objectively and be able to give citizens real facts about what is happening, even when it comes to the activities of the Allied Group in which we are actively involved, that is NATO.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u21	Thank you. Mr Pavel Ploc will also speak with his intervention and Mrs Miroslava Němcová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister, I'm sure you know about the problem with the light smog that plagues the people of Frýdlant in the Liberec Region. It is known that the polluter of this light smog is the Polish company Cintronex, which built greenhouses for growing vegetables in close proximity to our border and uses very intensive lighting. Unshadowed mammoth Polish greenhouses with tomatoes at the Czech border protested by Czech border residents, September into the night as a hundred thousand city. There is a danger that this light smog will destroy the unique area of the dark sky in the Jizera Mountains. The excess of light is dangerous for animals, but also for humans. I quote from an article by Mr.Pavel Suchan from the Astronomical Institute of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, which was published on news.cz February 15, 2016. Only in darkness does melatonin occur in our body and it is the most effective antioxidant and light smog can, according to research, start psychogenic diseases and increase the risk of civilization diseases such as cancer or cardiovascular disease. According to experts, the shade of the greenhouses of this Polish company should be an effective solution to this problem. My question is: What steps has the government taken and will take on this matter? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u23	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Please, Prime Minister, respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u24	Thank you. I just want to confirm, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, that this is a well-known problem for the Government in terms of Czech-Polish relations. We have two real problems in the area of Polish border areas that we are dealing with at the moment, whether at the level of government - government or at the level of ministries, especially the environment. The first thing is the problem of light smog, which interferes with the Liberec Region, but apparently also interferes with Saxony. So it is not only a problem that only Čech from Liberec are complaining, but also Sas are complaining towards the Polish government. And then we have a problem with the planned expansion of the Turów mine, where we are concerned that it will endanger the sources of groundwater in the Liberec Region. I would say that there is an even more complex and significant problem than the question of light pollution. So I would like to take the opportunity to report on what has happened with regard to problematic light pollution from greenhouses in Bogatynia, Poland. The greenhouses, as mentioned earlier, were built by Citronex. Glasshouses cause light smog, which has a significant influence on Czech territory. Intense nightlight bothers people and nature, and it is certainly a significant impact on the environment at the border. At present, the Czech Ministry of Environment is calling on the Ministry of Environment to discuss modifications with the investor to prevent light from entering the environment. The latest information from the Ministry of Environment says that greenhouse lighting has been reduced by 30, 40 percent due to the natural extension of the day. From 15 March this year, the lighting was completely switched off and it is expected that it will be completely shut down by September of this year and in autumn we will verify that the reduction in intensity remains and that the measures implemented are sufficient. [[15.00 hours]] According to information that has so far appeared in the media, but which we do not yet have confirmed from the Polish side, the greenhouse owners are considering performing shades of greenhouses on the basis of protests from the Czech and Saxon side, so the problem should disappear next season, as the greenhouses should be covered as of September. They say the Dutch experts are working on a technical solution. The cover should, according to the greenhouse owner's statement, only 3 per cent of the light should be released, 97 per cent of the light should remain inside. But this is something that we do not yet have fully confirmed at the level of interstate negotiations, it is just a reaction that has appeared in the Polish media, but of course we are following the situation. I took advantage of the joint meeting of the Czech and Polish governments that took place in Warsaw. We first met with the new Polish Government, and I asked Prime Minister Beata Szydlová to deal with this matter. I warned her that the light smog, the light pollution, is something that complicates the Czech-Polish relations in border borders, causing unnecessary negative effects. The Polish Prime Minister has promised to deal with this matter. I am also glad that intensive negotiations are taking place here at the working level of environmental ministers. One of them took place in February of this year. Further negotiations, I suppose, will follow and I can also confirm that this is a regular agenda with regard to contacts between environmental ministers from the Czech and Polish parties. So we're going to keep an eye on this thing. We expect a rather positive development, we expect a reaction from the owner of these greenhouses to implement the necessary technical measures. If technical measures were not implemented, we will again urge this matter on the Polish side, either at ministerial level or at government level.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u25	Thank you. I would like to ask - the Member will not have an additional question. Okay, let's move on. Mrs Miroslava Němcová will now speak with her intervention and prepare Mrs Jana Hnyková. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in my interview, I refer to our meeting this morning when I was here for about an hour or over an hour in dialogue with the Prime Minister on a visit to the Chinese President in our country. I asked him some questions in writing that he didn't answer, which is why I didn't agree with the answer. We had the opportunity to discuss these questions this morning. I have not been given an answer to the questions asked repeatedly, so those that the Prime Minister has not touched at all, I would like to repeat as the third attempt in oral interventions. So I quote: "Mr. Prime Minister, it concerns the Chinese company Huawei. Do you know that Australia has disabled this company due to security risks from a tender to build a nationwide high-speed Internet network? Did you know that this producer of telecommunications equipment was designated by the American House of Representatives' Intelligence Committee as a security risk in 2012 and recommended that it be closed down for entry into the US market? Indeed, Huawei has withdrawn from the US in response to the suspicion of cyberespionage. It was similar in Canada. Do you consider the activities of this company risk-free for the Czech Republic?" That was an interpelation passage that you repeatedly rejected, and I would ask you to tell me what this information I drew from public sources is that you consider really serious information verified by your experts, because they must have read it. So please either disprove them or confirm and tell me your opinion on this issue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u27	Thank you. I ask the Prime Minister to answer your question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u28	Thank you. Madam, honourable Members, honourable Members, Mr Vice-President, one thing is that I think it is good for us to say to ourselves how much the state can speak to what partners individual private communications companies use in terms of their technology supply. The government can only interfere with such a thing on the basis of legal authority. And I'm afraid there aren't many such legal privileges. Secondly, I am returning to our morning debate on privatisation in general. Here in the past, companies, such as radio communication, have been privatized. Or they were privatized by telephone operators, mobile operators, or new private mobile operators came to our market. And the government does not own, for example, the telecommunications infrastructure that is used in the Czech Republic for communication. This means that the government has no direct entry there and can therefore exercise its powers only if the law allows it to do so. I must say that it is difficult for me to express myself here with authority on the address of some of the companies, as the honourable Member does, because at the moment I am in constitutional capacity, I am in the position of Prime Minister. If I, as Prime Minister, make statements to commercial companies, this is not about my personal responsibility, but this responsibility could be related to the Czech Republic. And I really wouldn't want to instigate any arbitration or lawsuits on the Czech Republic because of one interpellation here. Remember Diag Human, a letter that was sufficient from one Minister of Health in the 1990s to lead arbitration of billions and billions of crowns against the Czech Republic. So here I think we all need to act as responsible as possible. Like me, I can't publish information here from messages that provide secret services and that are in a regime that doesn't allow me to publish on interpellations that are also transmitted on television, so that I can publish data that are subject to secrecy. It is therefore really difficult to have a discussion on this subject here through an intercession. And I would probably recommend to the Member, who I see a strong interest in this subject, to initiate, for example, the negotiations of the Security Committee on this subject. In order to eventually initiate a closed meeting of the Security Committee, to invite representatives of the relevant services and to inform Members if they see such specific risks here, if they see them specifically in relation to certain companies operating in the Czech Republic. I really wouldn't want to comment on individual specific companies right now and mention them in some negative context, especially if this is really not relevant here, rational reason, and I don't think that's exactly the best platform for us to discuss this subject. Of course, I can mention to the Member here the problem of cyberespionage, how we generally respond to it, but that is probably not the question that the Member wanted to ask me at the moment. I just want to stress that, as a government, we are trying to increase the resilience of information infrastructure. Our goal is to minimise the impact of possible cyber attacks. I think that in the field of cyber security and efforts to strengthen cyber security today, the Czech Republic is becoming one of the leaders within the EU. We have here a whole range of interesting cooperations, cooperation with other states in the area of our ability to strengthen the defence of critical infrastructure and strengthen the defence of state administration, which is increasingly electronized within eGovernment, before possible efforts to obtain data illegally or interfere in some way with the functioning of electronic communication or in some way influence this communication. So that's just a very brief thing to say. Of course I say I can react in general, but I don't want to name any particular companies right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u29	Thank you. The honourable Member is about to ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u30	I will repeat the introduction where I think you will not take any risky journey at all, Prime Minister, if you answer me. Again, then. Did you know that Huawei disabled Australia due to security risks from a tender to build a national Internet network? Yes or no? You can know that, or you don't have to, and there's nothing wrong with that if you answer me. Did you know that this telecommunications equipment manufacturer was designated by the American House of Representatives' Intelligence Committee as a security risk and recommended that he be closed down for entry into the US market? All I'm gonna need is an answer that you know about it, or you've never heard of it, or you know it's been published in the media and you think that the essence is just not right and you don't agree with how this information has been published. And of that certainly, such answers also on this forum you can certainly do. Thank you if you dare.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u31	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u32	Thank you. Madam, honourable Members, I really am not an expert on the activities of IT companies or telecommunications companies on various world markets and, in order to have a meaningful assessment of those reports that Mrs Němcová has said here, I would have to know exactly what the projects were. How deep their intervention in the national communication infrastructure was, to what extent the governments of those countries had or had no influence on those projects. In recent years, as far as I know, we have not carried out projects that offer such risks in terms of the Czech Republic. And if so, I would ask the Member to draw my attention to any specific cases where she thinks there might be some threat to the security of the information systems of the Czech Republic, where there are some risks of cyber attacks or cyber-espionage. So I repeat, in order to assess the relevance of the information and the research that Mrs Němcová quoted here, I would have to have a broader knowledge of what exactly the projects were and on the basis of what powers the governments mentioned here have decided on this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u33	Thank you. I'll read the apologies before we proceed to the next interview. Within 17 hours, Mr Milan Šarapatka apologizes for reasons of work, from 18 a.m. to the end of the hearing for reasons of work, Mrs Radka Maxová, and from 14.30 to 15.30 for reasons of work, Mr Holík apologizes. I will now ask Mrs Hnyková to interview her and Mr Martin Novotný will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, dear Prime Minister, let me ask you how to get Minister Marksová to attend the meeting of the Social Policy Committee. We have already repeatedly included the issue of socio-legal protection of children at the committee's meeting. Unfortunately, without her participation, we cannot solve the problems in this area. I was most angry that we included this issue at the meeting on 23 June this year. Everything was discussed with her in advance. She said she was coming to the meeting, and she didn't. I consider this a very important area of social policy. We've all been waiting for the public to tell us what the next step will be on this issue. We know how much trouble there is. All of us on the committee are interested in dealing with this situation. Unfortunately, without participation, I repeat again, Madam Secretary hardly. On the other hand, it is true that we have also learned that it has discussed social housing with citizens on the sidewalk. I understand that this is important to her, but the committee's deliberations should be, too. Am I wrong? I must join my colleague Maxová and other colleagues that the Minister despises the negotiations of the Committee on Social Policy. I don't know if the labor code applies to her, or if you have an ethical code in the government. If so, Prime Minister, he is violated by his absence to attend a meeting of such an important body as the Committee on Social Policy of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. The chairman of the committee writes letters requesting the Minister's participation in the meeting. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] I'm just gonna say one question: what are you gonna do about it, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u35	Thank you. You will still have room for an additional question, so you can then ask further questions to which you would like to know the answer from the Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u36	Thank you. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is possible for me to address where I am going. But frankly, I didn't think I should replace the secretariat of the Social Policy Committee and the secretariat at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I think we have people there who are in charge of aligning the calendars and aligning the timetable. That's what I do at the Office of the Government. I'm just trying to make a deal with the partners we need to meet, and we're looking for an appropriate deadline so that it suits everyone as far as possible and that we can meet. So if you think that right now, at this point, I should start replacing the chairman of the committee or the secretary of labor and their coworkers who are in charge of their diaries, I don't think so. I think the job needs to be divided. I saw the correspondence between the committee and the secretary. At the beginning of this year, the committee told Minister Marksová when to meet. Secretary Marksová has told her which dates suit her attendance. She also communicated a letter clearly which dates she would not be able to attend. Several deadlines came from this, where the Minister confirmed that he would attend the committee's meeting. I don't think it's a tragedy, it's not even a committee boycott, it doesn't mean the Minister doesn't want to go to committee meetings. There's just been communication, certain deadlines have been confirmed. I can imagine otherwise. In fact, if I were chairman of the committee, as I was also chairman of the budget committee here in the Chamber of Deputies, when I needed to invite the minister, the minister told me he couldn't, so we were looking for a deadline to meet. Because it was about the committee members meeting with the minister. And we always had some will there - 5, 10, 15 percent of our time when we had the ability to adapt. So, to be honest, when I was chairman of the Budget Committee, I didn't write down with the Minister, we didn't send out stacks of correspondence, but my secretary called the Secretary of the Treasury. They said what the options were, and then they came up with a proposal for a deadline that suits both my program and the finance minister's program. We've called a committee meeting, and I don't think there was any problem. So I certainly did not involve the Prime Minister in order to set me deadlines for the ministers' participation in committee meetings. I'm saying this because I don't see it as some kind of carp from the secretary's side, like some kind of pout. She just made it clear what deadlines she could come up with, and then I think it's all about mutual agreement, about the ability to communicate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u37	Thank you. Please, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u38	Prime Minister, Madam Secretary is a member of your political party. The Chairman of the Social Policy Committee is a member of your MP's club. When I see that this issue - you have not followed me - is being repeatedly assigned to the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and the Minister is not taking part in it, who else should I turn to but you? He's your secretary of your government. Please, I would very much like you to do something about this. Maybe he arranged for her to participate in such important matters. Here's the last letter the Prime Minister asks her to do. There's something wrong here. You don't even have to answer that question anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u39	Thank you. Yet the Prime Minister seems to answer you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u40	I definitely want to react. And only for the lady of the house. In order for both of us not to feel useless about our time in the interceptions right now, I want to promise you that I will definitely discuss this with Secretary Marksová. I will ask her to improve communication with the Committee and to be more effective in meeting the requirements for her participation in the Committee's deliberations. So I'm sure we're agreed on that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u41	Thank you. I'll load an apology. Today from 19 a.m. and tomorrow all day for work reasons, Mr. Jiří Štětina apologizes. Mr Martin Novotný will now speak with his intervention and Mr Bohuslav Chalupa will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u42	Dear Prime Minister, there was an important referendum in the UK a few days ago on the withdrawal of this country from the European Union. Since then, you have attended several meetings of top representatives of the European Union, such the first reflecting negotiations after the Brexit decision. Yesterday I noted your sentence, which I may not quote exactly, but which was roughly: The paradox of brexit can be the acceleration and deepening of European integration. I would like to ask you quite logically whether you are saying something in this sentence about what should happen after the Brexit decision in the European Union, whether it anticipates any position of the Czech Government. We have all noted the first reactions of the representatives of the European Commission, its boss, Mr Juncker, calling for the expansion of the euro area and a definitive solution to the problem. Other representatives of various factions in the European Parliament, particularly those left-wing, call for greater harmonisation of social systems, fiscal systems, etc. I know we have an extraordinary meeting on the subject today, but also because these interpelations are broadcast by television, I want to ask you what the current position of the Czech Government on the ongoing first Brexit negotiations. And does it really fit your sentence that the paradoxical consequence can be the deepening and speeding up of European integration?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u43	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u44	Yes. Dear Member, honourable Members, Mr Vice-President, this can certainly happen in part of the European Union, because, as you know, Great Britain was not part of the euro area. It belonged to those countries, like the Czech Republic or Poland or other countries that are members of the European Union, but do not pay the euro and are not part of the monetary economic union. So we tried not to dig too big a moat between those countries that pay the euro and the others. This means that we have tried in some way to monitor what is happening in the euro area, and we have tried to support steps that would not create a Europe where there are too many lines of integration and cooperation. By leaving the Union, it will probably not be tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, it will probably take several years, but it is actually already leaving today, so the camp of countries that do not pay the euro but are part of the Union will logically weaken in terms of their number of votes in terms of decision-making in terms of the weight of their economy. So obviously, we are going to have a much more complex discussion here about somehow keeping Europe together and not separating too much from those countries that pay the euro, and those countries - no doubt many of them will have a tendency to deepen the integration process significantly or more quickly. As far as the position of the Czech Government is concerned, I will, of course, discuss it here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies tonight. I just want to say, very briefly, because now there are interpelations and we don't have a lot of time, basically we see three important priorities. The first priority is the stabilisation and cohesion of the European Union. The fact that Great Britain is leaving does not mean that the European integration project is ending, i.e. a stable, coherent and functioning European Union. Two. A peaceful and factual breakup with Great Britain. The fact that Great Britain is leaving the European Union does not mean that it will not be a significant economic partner for us in the future, and that it will not be a strategic partner for us in the future. David Cameron clearly confirmed that Britain is not leaving NATO, i.e. in NATO, at least at this level, we will work very closely together. And the third thing we see as a priority is to focus on specific problems that interest citizens, i.e. economic growth, competitiveness, employment in Europe, social cohesion in Europe and, above all, security. And if you ask me where I can imagine a greater degree of integration or strengthening the European Union's capacity for action, it is the area of defence, security and foreign policy, because, as the migration crisis has shown, when Europe is about to launch a military operation, to intervene against human smugglers, to strengthen the protection of external borders, it does not actually have any real tools for that. It is only working hard to create everything, such as a common European border and coast guard. We have years of Schengen, we have years of external border here, and only now, after years, we find that we need joint action to protect the external Schengen border. As well as naval operations against the Aegean smugglers, just as now there will certainly be a need for an operation against smugglers on the Libyan shores, and Europe does not have the tools for this. It is unable to organise independent military and civilian operations. The European Union's foreign policy does not have sufficient authority in the countries around Europe, i.e. here too, we would need a greater and more effective foreign policy of the European Union, so that it can contribute to ensuring the security of Europe. I see the issue of security as key. I think that many European countries see this as crucial. People have gained a strong sense of danger that they did not previously have by the way the migration wave was not managed in the first few months. We have all seen Europe as a safe harbor that guarantees us a decent standard of living, stability, prosperity, but now a sense of security has been disturbed. And Europe has to do more here in this sense when it comes to cooperation in the fight against terrorism as regards cooperation in the fight against smuggling of people in terms of halting illegal migration. Here I see space for a more operational European Union everywhere, and if stronger European institutions demand it, please have a stronger European institution in this area, which is very useful to us. Otherwise, as far as the adoption of the euro is concerned, I am not one of those who, after brexit, would suggest that we change our policy to the euro. This is our decision, it must be based on our economic and budgetary situation, and if there are such huge differences in living standards and in salaries between us and the euro area countries, I am thinking, in particular, of Germany, Austria and others, I think that we must only move forward in terms of convergence in order to be able to adopt the euro successfully.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u45	Thank you. I ask the honourable Member whether he wants to ask an additional question. He wants to, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u46	Mr. Prime Minister, I don't want to ask you another question, but more like a supplemental statement. I wanted to ask your Minister of Finance a question in response to Mr Juncker's statement on the enlargement of the euro area. I don't know if the apology that was read here concerns today's interventions, I suppose. So if you didn't know where it was, it's at this time in a cookie on Rajská Street on the Black Bridge in Prague, not on interpelations. It's on his Facebook page.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u47	Thank you for your input and we will move on to who is applied for interpelation, and this was drawn by Mr Bohuslav Chalupa, Mr Karel Fiedler will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u48	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask why you are now expressing yourself in the Czech media in the sense that Brexit will paradoxically affect the restoration of deeper European integration. The previous speaker has already mentioned this. Are you seriously considering restoring deeper integration in a situation where Europe, not for the first time, is failing on all fronts? Do you agree with the further deepening of European integration and the surrender of our current powers to the structures of the European Union, which clearly prove their incompetence? All reasonable politicians of European nations are now calling for a fundamental reform of the European Union and its functioning. And you, in contrast to this extremely legitimate request from the European civil public, agree to speak to the media about the positive impact of Brexit on the renewal of the process of European integration? You are not concerned about further strengthening the centrifugal tendencies and other erosions of the European Union? Aren't you afraid of another rise in the popularity of extreme political entities both at national and European level? The response to brexit in the form of further pressure to deepen integration, see Mr Juncker and his tightening of bolts, without carrying out a thorough analysis of the causes of the state in which the European Union has come, without correcting the obvious errors of specific persons in the leadership of the European Union, in the institutions of the European Parliament, without the relevant self-esteem of European elites, is an absolute lack of understanding of the current situation. Most members of the Member States do not want this solution, nor do citizens of the Czech Republic. Who would also like to integrate into an unacceptable whole that politically arrogant, and as far as for example. on the defence and security of European territory, quite inefficiently manage two countries according to their own interests? What personal activity have you yourself as Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and a member of the European Council developed to remedy the long-term problems of the European Union, i.e. The Greek crisis, the Ukrainian crisis, the immigration crisis, and finally the Brexit? I also ask about this in connection with the fact that I personally called on you several times through the committee -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u49	Your time, Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry. If I may ask you to put it in the supplementary question, the rest of your interpellation. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u50	Thank you. So I have to say that I don't know anyone at all who would force us into any faster integration. I have now spent two days at the European Council meeting, and I must say that no one has spoken of such a thing. I have not noticed that anyone has been putting any pressure on anyone except that the British Government does not want to announce the outcome of its referendum officially so that the countdown of British membership in the European Union does not begin. This is actually the only new element that exists here. But I am convinced and I have made it clear, and I said it a few days ago that Europe must change, but not because of brexit. That's not the reason. Europe must change in order to have sufficient support for its own citizens. And when I talk to people and talk to them about what bothers them about Europe, it bothers them, among other things, that Europe is unable to guarantee them sufficient security, that external Schengen borders are not working here, that we have terrorist attacks in Europe, that Europe is unable to intervene against illegal migration, that beyond Europe, there have been conflicts that we have not been able to resolve for years, either diplomatically or otherwise, as Europe. So tell me what's the way to the solution. Is it the way that Europe will dissolve and deal with it separately, or that Europe will have effective tools to ensure people's safety? I am in favour of ensuring that they are safe. We know that the Czech Republic cannot fight terrorism alone. We must work with Germany, France, Austria, Great Britain and we must look for ways to act preventively against terrorism, because information is the best weapon against terrorists and terrorist networks. And we must share that information within Europe. If we have external borders and no one's guarding the external borders, no one's protecting them, so we've seen what's been going on here in the past few years. Europe must have the capacity to protect external borders, otherwise Schengen space will break down. Jobs in the Czech Republic depend on us being part of the European market. We cannot allow the European market to break down so that borders, controls between Germany and the Czech Republic, between Germany and France will grow again. How are we going to export our goods if we stand on each of these borders? This is complete nonsense in terms of our people's interest in their social security, their security. That's total nonsense. Europe needs free movement of goods. We need an internal market. We export 80 percent of what we produce here in the Czech Republic. But people want Europe to defend their security, and that is why they have to be instruments and we need to work better together in this regard. I would very much like it if we were not dependent on how few months, one, two, three, four months it takes to prepare a naval operation to intervene against smugglers of people off the coast of Turkey. What's taking so long? These are the things that the Czech Republic criticised. When we talk about anti-dumping, it is about protecting jobs in Europe that concern the steel industry. Why does the European Union take so long to launch an anti-dumping proceeding in the United States within a short period of time? These are typical problems of the inefficient and bureaucratic functioning of the European Union. And here I think that Europe must change not because of brexit, but because of ourselves. Britain had many exceptions. Britain was not part of Schengen. Britain does not pay the euro. But she was a member of the European Union. It had the opportunity to decide the European Union. Now she's decided to step out. But that is no reason not to think about further improving the functioning of the European Union. No one is pushing us in terms of further integration. Unlike Polish government officials, no member of our government suggests that we accelerate our connection to the euro. I think that we really cannot do this on the basis of brexit, but we must do this on the basis of our real economic situation and possibilities, our economy's ability and our real economic interest. In contrast to Polish ministers, members of the Czech Government do not propose that we speed up the adoption of the common European currency. What I fear is the economic effects of brexit, because Europe needs investment, Europe needs economic growth. And anything like this happens, like brexit, now associated with this chaos, possible further breakdown of Britain, the problem of Scotland that will want to get into the European Union maybe itself, the problem of separatism, nationalism that will trigger this Brexit across Europe, these are all negative reports that will reflect on investment, reflect on jobs, reflect on social security.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u51	I'm sorry, Prime Minister. [[The Prime Minister is leaving the speaker's desk.]] Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u52	Thank you for the non-spoken answer, or, more specifically, the answer that just repeats itself here like a bottler. Calling now when it's so-called after the battle that the king is naked, anyone can do that. I'd expect a little braver and more politically responsible... to warn and solve errors in time, you are the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, to solve them where you could solve them. I ask again: What personal activity have you, as Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, developed to remedy the European Union's long-term problems? I've already named those crises. I am also asking about this in connection with the fact that I have personally called on you several times through the Committee on European Affairs to initiate a debate on the personal responsibility of some of the European Union's leading politicians, the incompetence and unjustified political powers of the President of the European Commission, the staff of the European Commission and the officials of the European Parliament for years of inactivity and failure to cope with the crises already mentioned, which have so far culminated in brexit. Thank you for your answer. I'm interested in your personal initiative! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u53	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u54	I think that's a very nice question. And thank you for it, because the Czech Republic is finishing its annual V4 Presidency today. And if you look at the activity of the V4 group last year under the Presidency of the Czech Republic, we were the most visible regional group throughout the European Union. If there is a question about my personal activity, then I say yes, I have represented a group of V4 countries, yes, for 12 months I have applied critical views on the European Council, where I have access as Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, yes, for Poland, Hungary, Slovakia I have criticised proposals for addressing the migration crisis. For Poland, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic, I proposed the closure of the migration route in the Balkans and the support of the Balkan countries. For the Visegrad Four, I also supported the agreement with Great Britain to reach a reasonable compromise. Unfortunately, it was not enough for the Brit to decide to stay within the European Union. I think that the fact that the Czech Republic has now led the Visegrad Group has greatly helped us to increase our influence within the European Union. Poland is taking over from us now, but that does not mean that I, as Prime Minister, would end up with this high activity, and I want to continue to support colleagues from Poland and other V4 countries. And I must say that we continue to move forward together, coordinate. I think that together we can push much more within the European Council than if each of our countries were to act independently. We've made the V4 visible in a significant way over the past year. We have tried to intervene and actively contribute to the resolution of the migration crisis. And I must say that it has come to what we have proposed, and many countries have leaned towards what I have repeatedly emphasised in the negotiations where I have had access, how illegal migration needs to be stopped, what needs to be done to tackle the migration crisis. And the success of this in the Western Balkans is also the result of the high pressure of the V4 under the leadership of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u55	Thank you. Now, therefore, Mr Karel Fiedler's interpellation and Mr Ladislav Velebný will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We have a double premiere who speaks reasonably in the House and other European forums. But to my interpellation. It has something to do with the negotiations and the example. I have spoken several times here, Prime Minister, and I have intersected you orally and in writing on the matter of the government committee on the resolution of the impact of church restitutions. We know that since March 2014, there has been an MP - I know that the MP - a draft amendment to the law that tried to address both the term and amendments and the unauthorized requests made by the churches for the return of the restitution. Today, we are in a state where the churches are filing lawsuits against the state. And this situation has been discussed by the government committee, which may not, I do not know, on the basis of my comment that the year did not sit, met now on 7 June, taking note of the report on the state of lawsuits. [[15.40 hours]] I am therefore very unhappy with the fact that the government only took note of this because, within the framework of the religious restitutions, it was decided to issue significant amounts of property both in real estate and in the form of financial compensation. And the fact that we are now witnessing that actually attempts are being made to gain even more than was given by Act 428/2012 Coll., I consider it rather scandalous, I would almost say. One of the amendments, I believe, was the House press 141, tried to impose sanctions for such wrongful conduct. The government has taken note of the matter. So I ask how the government will proceed to address this increasing number of state lawsuits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u57	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister, give me an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u58	Thank you. First of all, honourable Members and honourable Members, why have there been an increase in the number of actions? It happened for a logical reason. Because the three-year limitation period within which these actions could be brought ended. This means that we assume that it will already be possible to fully quantify and process all these proposals as they have been submitted, and now it will also be possible to analyse them. I consider the biggest problem to be the actions brought against municipalities and regions, because the law on property settlement with churches shows that municipalities and regions are not a mandatory person with regard to the issue of church property. And those who passed the law here in Parliament argued that it is precisely because municipalities and regions are not a mandatory person and there will be no extradition of certain property, which was once historically a church, but then got into the property of the regions and municipalities, so it is precisely for this that there is also compensation for unissued property. And now we're in a situation where the law says that municipalities and regions don't issue church property, but yet churches or various church denominations are filing determining lawsuits to determine who owns the property. I am glad that we already have some judicial decisions that show that the courts are prepared to follow the law and respect what has been said in the law on reconciliation with the churches. I would like us now, when we are preparing another quarterly report by the government committee monitoring the process of church restitution, to draw up a comprehensive list of all the actions that have been brought towards the regions and municipalities, as well as the actions that have been brought on the state. To make it clear what kind of judicature we have at the moment, what individual pilot cases of court decisions look like, and to analyse if any government intervention is needed in this situation. I think that what would also be very reasonable on the part of church leaders would be to reconsider this policy of bringing the lawsuits to the municipalities and regions often in a situation where it is evident, even on the basis of the judgments of the courts so far, that these actions will not be successful. I think it's a useless thing that increases the tension between churches, communities and regions. I know that the Regional Association has just had the legislative legal analysis of the situation processed. I am ready to get to know her, and if necessary, the government will certainly deal in detail with the situation that has arisen here in connection with the large number of actions brought against persons who are legally not obliged to issue church property. Other things are lawsuits against state institutions. I think it merely confirms the fact that the state institutions that dealt with the extradition of church property did not give him a hard time, but tried to proceed strictly according to the law. And if the property has not been issued, although the churches have demanded it, it is naturally possible that the churches will take advantage of the opportunity to deal with it in court. This applies, however, to state property where, in the process of extradition, the State has concluded that the property does not belong to the Church and cannot be issued. There, the church cannot be denied the right to take advantage of the judicial path to resolve disputes relating to church restitution. I consider the actions to be dubious in relation to municipalities and regions which are not legally required to issue such property.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u59	Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u60	Thank you. I'll take one more minute at my disposal. Just a quick statement. The preparation of tax evasion is now a criminal offence. What, then, is the request for unauthorised extradition of property? I'll leave that question on the air, no answer. And as far as the work of the commission is concerned, you're saying that churches may be able to use the possibilities provided for by law. Well, if we have significantly exceeded the deadline for the assets to be issued, the decision to issue the assets has just been addressed by a parliamentary proposal that has tried to really push forward the deadline that has been set, then I think we are here again in the state where we had the problem put out. And when there's a big problem, we'll be dealing with it. As my colleague Chalupa said about the failure of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u61	Thank you. The next one will speak with Mrs Olga Havlová's intervention and will be prepared by Mr Jiří Valenta, because Mr Ladislav Velebný is withdrawing his intervention. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u62	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, as I announced this morning, I was informed that in 2004 the Regional Committee of the ČSSD met in the Polish House in Ostrava, which was attended by you, among other things. A resolution emerged from this regional committee in which it is recommended not to sell OKD to the then government, because the price of 4.1 billion is heavily below the price. I wanted this resolution in my hands, but all the resolutions in the archives for 2004 and 2005 are mysteriously missing. Secondly, I also referred to two independent opinions which were drawn up and reportedly presented at this meeting, and on the basis of which a negative position on sales was expressed. At that time, a worker at the Office of the Government had all these numbers and documents at its disposal. What can you tell me about this information? And how do you explain the huge interest of billionaires in OKD today? I mean, nobody's going to a damn company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u63	Thank you, too, Madame. I ask the Prime Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u64	Thank you. Madam, honourable Members, first of all, I would like to remind you that I have spent about an hour here in the Chamber of Deputies today to describe how complex and complex the privatisation of Ostrava-Carvin mines was, the stock companies. In 2004, when the Member mentioned this year, the State did not sell OKD. By that time in 2004, the state did not own the majority in OKD. OKD was already wildly privatized and at that time OKD was owned by Karbon Invest, Mr Votava and Koláček, who acted for Karbon Invest. The government did not sell most of the shares of OKD to Karbon Invest simply because Karbon Invest got to the shares completely independently of the functioning of the government, which was here in 2004. He just savagely privatized her. He privatized it in a way that didn't bring a crown into the state budget. That's what happened before 2004. As for the sale of the residual stake of the State, I must say that the State was selling shares, sold 45 percent of the shares of OKD, which was a minority share. And he sold the share for an opinion, at a price higher than the state's order, and at a price higher than the opinion of the competition authority received by the government. It was also higher than the prices offered in previous years by private tenderers for a minority share. I'm just reminding you that the bids were around 1.5 billion. CZK, which the State received sometime in 1999, 2000, 2001. At the time, there was talk of about 1.5 billion. The CZK that the state could get for 45 percent of the shares in OKD. Finally, in 2004, the sales price of the package was 45 percent of the shares of OKD 4.1 billion. CZK, which was significantly higher than the assessments which assessed the price of these shares, and was significantly higher than the Authority's opinion. So much for just this question. [[15.50 hours]] And with regard to any resolution of any party body, it cannot, of course, replace government decisions. He can express his opinion on the matter. And I must say that when privatisation took place in 2004, the housing fund was actually solved for the first time. The housing fund, which was inserted into the OKD without any regulation, was put into the privatisation process only in 2004 when the residual share of the state shares was sold, conditions were introduced into the privatisation process concerning restrictions on the management of the OKD housing fund so that the OKD housing fund could not be sold out so that tenants had guaranteed pre-shopping rights to acquire these flats within the OKD property. It wasn't until 2004. Before that, no one cared about the fate of the OKD housing fund, although the company had been ferociously privatized before. Now I don't want to judge what happened in OKD after 2006 or after 2005. I just want to say that today the decline of OKD is due to two factors. The first factor is the management of the company in previous years, because it clearly did not create reserves when it was making profits. And secondly, it's a fall in the prices of energy commodities, including black coal. Every country in Europe today has a problem closing down mines where black coal is mined. It is by far not just the problem of the Czech Republic or Poland, but coal mines are closed in all European countries regardless of when and how the companies privatized there. It's just a problem with the low prices of coal on the market that's here. Unfortunately, in the last two three years, the problem has deepened, and this, of course, has a very negative effect on the functioning of the OKD. But if OKD had made reserves in recent years, it would certainly have been better to deal with this situation than it is today. And that is the responsibility of the private owners who were there, how OKD was led and how OKD managed under their ownership.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u65	Thank you. The honourable Member will ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u66	Prime Minister, just as I suspected. Once again, you've shown yourself to be a great rhetoricalist. You didn't answer what I asked you. And I was talking about 45 percent when the total assets of OKD were calculated - you know how it was calculated. And you should have told me why billionaires are so interested in it today. You didn't answer my question at all. And you've also been looking at the numbers you've been telling us this morning. But that's not what I asked you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u67	The Prime Minister is ready to respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u68	I really cannot speak here for those who have announced in the media that they are interested in entering the OKD, that they are interested in continuing their activities at least in the OKD section. It's a matter of private owners. Whoever decides will now be the creditor committee, the court and, of course, the insolvency administrator. However, I consider it important to say that the government is interested in keeping the OKD operational. If OKD stays in operation, more jobs will be maintained and there will be a chance of gradual decline. What would be the worst would be if there was a OKD impact drop. The region, especially Karvina County, would be very difficult to deal with. So that's the first thing. I can't speak here for those who show interest in buying OKD. But hopefully, even these private initiatives will contribute to keeping OKD operational, at least part of the mines going on in the next years of mining. Although it will not be possible to keep the whole OKD in operation, it is evident that, in order to improve the efficiency of the management, if coal prices do not increase further, the situation would certainly improve. But if the prices of coal do not rise significantly, of course OKD will have to restructure, and that will be the question of the creditor committee to decide on the matter in the end. The state has newly become a creditor of OKD, so of course we will use our options and powers, which we have from this title, to positively influence the fate of OKD.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u69	Thank you, Prime Minister. Next in line is Mr. Jiří Valenta. Please put your patronage down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, you answered your colleague Fiedler more or less on my question, which I had prepared for you. I would ask you briefly, then, whether, in connection with the actions of the Church on the county and the municipalities relating to the issue of property, you yourself see suspicion of breach of contracts, particularly by the Catholic Church, which were concluded with the State at the time of Mr Nečas' Prime Minister in 2013. It is well known that religious restitution does not apply to regional property. You said it yourself. And you said you were personally against that. But perhaps you do not know the precedent of the Supreme Court's judgment in this regard in the dispute of the Hradec Králové Region versus the Capuchin about the monastery in Opočně. This precedent has clearly stated that churches have no right to ask the regions and municipalities to return this property. Well, if you'll just give it a little more thought.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u71	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Please, Prime Minister, give me an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u72	Thank you. Madam, honourable Members, I must say that this decision of the Supreme Court is very important. And as I firmly believe, it will positively affect the further decision of the court in the matter. It's only if I can make a very brief statement about the Supreme Court's decision. The Supreme Court has commented on the defining actions brought by the churches on the edge. He stated that it was possible to identify with the interpretation of the Constitutional Court, according to which the restriction on the treatment of things belonging originally to churches and religious societies did not prevent such changes in the person of the owner who did not oppose the meaning of the property settlement with the churches. The decision of the Supreme Court in its judgment of 24 then follows that conclusion. 2. this year, in the sense that, through the transition - I stress the word transition - property in favour of municipalities under Section 1 of Law 172/1991, there was no threat to the preservation of the property base for future settlement with churches, since the property which had thus transferred to the municipalities did not lack its status of historical ownership of the churches, and other legal disposition with it therefore remained limited by the law on land, and it was by the supreme right of the legislature to decide whether that unabated property substrate would allow the use of the material satisfaction, i.e. natural restitutions, or that municipalities as public corporations do not rank among compulsory persons. And since the legislature here, when the settlement law was passed with the churches, decided not to include municipalities and regions among the obliged persons, the transition does not constitute a breach of the above-mentioned blocking provisions in the Land Act. So it is evident that this Supreme Court judgment of this year is indeed a breakthrough. It clearly states that in the case of property that has passed to municipalities under the law, it is not possible to apply church restitution or settlement to churches and natural restitution to such property. The analysis that the government will now prepare will concern how many cases can be applied to this Supreme Court decision and how many cases relate to a different nature of the transfer of assets and how much impact this could have on the question of financial compensation for unissued assets. That's what I think is important to our future considerations. If it were to occur here that the courts would decide that the property held by municipalities and regions will also be issued today, then this would undoubtedly have an impact on the possible regulation of the settlement law with the churches in order to take account of the financial transactions provided to the churches as compensation for unissued property. So it will be necessary to assess how large the size of the property in terms of its transfer does not fulfil the character of the law, as it was intended when the law on reconciliation with the churches was passed. [[16.00 hours]] We will have a certain analysis in advance, and then, of course, in real time, we will know how the individual litigations went, and how those litigations intervened in the design of the law, according to which in natural restitution and in granting financial compensation to the churches, and on that basis we should evaluate it, event. We should respond by changing the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u73	Thank you, Prime Minister. As it is 16 o'clock, I note that the time has elapsed when the last oral question to the Prime Minister can be submitted under the Rules of Procedure. Now there will be oral interpelations on other members of the government. I therefore call on Mrs Nina Nováková to give an interview to the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, Kateřina Valachová, and thus launch a block of government members' replies to the interpelation of Members. Member Jan Klán will be ready. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, considering increasing teacher salaries at the expense of teachers in basic arts schools is a classic case called. counterproductive solution. It didn't come from the Ministry of Education, but it appeared several times in the media. We know that one of the problems of our education is the bad atmosphere that makes up stressed children and overloaded teachers, and therefore meeting art is an effective and easy cure for both the soul and the body, but also for relations between people. Not in vain, the World Health Organization defines health as well-being, physical, psychological, social, and aesthetic. Similarly, not in vain, the Czech Republic signed a Seoul programme in which it joins the decision that artistic education will be one of the basic competences of our school. I therefore want to make sure, Madam Secretary, that, when considering the financing of education, you do not intend in any way to underestimate or restrict the activities of basic arts schools and other possibilities of artistic education not only for children of great talent, because I would consider this discrimination. And the second question is whether you will revive a process that would allow artistic competence to really be placed in a dignified place in the framework education programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u75	I, too, thank you, Madam, and I will ask Minister Valachová to answer you. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u76	Mr President, honourable Members, when it comes to artistic education, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports supports it. As far as basic art schools and their systems are concerned, too. As to the fact that primary art schools have often been victims of inappropriate funding, which has led in some regions to suppress this type of education because they have been financed from the same package as other primary schools, I just want to say that this systemically eliminates changes in regional education funding, which have been discussed and approved by the Association of Art Schools. I perceive artistic education in two levels, I would say formal and informal. As far as the formal one is concerned, I really want art education to be: primary schools, secondary schools, universities. As far as universities are concerned, I just want to say that the National Accreditation Authority's board - there are decently represented art fields through Mr Mathé. As part of the financing of science, we have introduced the RUV, which is therefore the development of artistic outputs, and we have also decided, and that is the definitive decision that next year, the artistic universities will increase the coefficient in terms of their sustainability of funding. As far as the higher objective mentioned by the honourable Member is concerned, I would divide it into two things. We want to comprehensively adapt the framework education programmes, because very often the teaching professional public complains about partial non-systemic interventions, but I can promise to include this type of reflection in the programme of five-year verification of RVP changes. And I would also like to report that this week there has been an agreement with the National Institute of Further Education on the renewal of teaching centres at NIDV regional levels and systemic support for field didactics. I believe that's where it goes, too. As far as informal education is concerned, school associations are, I would say, one of my goals, so that they really are a place where children can develop their talents, and that, of course, is where artistic talents belong. I am very happy to support those schools that already cooperate with basic art schools. Finally, I would say that special schools also have a very good experience of connecting with basic art schools, and from my point of view it is a natural communication between children that we should support and which is completely natural and develops both sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u77	Thank you. I would like to ask if the honourable Member will ask an additional question. That's right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u78	Thank you for the floor. Just for a little while. I would just like to remind you that it is necessary not to take this into consideration that on my part it is a request to extend the number of lessons of music education or art education, but to know that education through art as passively and through art making should grow through our entire educational and educational system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u79	Thank you. [[The Minister no longer wishes to respond.]] In that case, we will proceed to the next interview that Mr Jan Klán has on Mr. Transport Minister Dan Ťok, and Mr. Ludvík Hovorka will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u80	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I am addressing you in connection with the overpass on the I/2 road in Kutná Hora. It is an overpass that connects the town area of Kutná Hora - Malín with the central Kutna Hora and is above the corridor line 230 direction Havlíčkův Brod. For at least eight years it has been solved what to do with this overpass because it is in almost an emergency state. At a meeting with the citizens of Malín, where representatives of ŘSD were also present, it was said that the overpass was intended for demolition and then the construction of the new overpass will take place. By the end of 2015, the results of the measurement of hazardous substances from the overpass embankments, in particular the arsenic content, should have been known. For this reason, I ask you the following questions. According to ŘSD, the results of the measurement of hazardous substances should have been available since the end of 2015. Does the Road and Motorway Directorate and the Ministry of Transport have the results already available? When will the demolition of the overpass itself take place? What will be the security measures taken? According to my latest information, the excess values of hazardous substances, especially arsenic, have been detected in the overpass embankments. It's true, and what's the next move from the Ministry of Transport? What is the Department of Transport waiting for? Is this a problem of finance or technological or some other, that nothing is still done about this overpass? Does the Ministry of Transport communicate with the Municipal Authority in Kutná Hora to prepare the implementation of this construction? And who will carry out the demolition itself and then the construction of this overpass? I'm just sorry that the Minister is not excused, he was supposed to be here, he was only excused until 14.30, so I was looking forward to it, and in the end it will be just a written answer, and I dare say that I know what the answer will be, because even the answers to my written interpelations are still the same on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u81	Thank you. Just for the record, Mr. Ambassador, I say that the Minister is excused all day for business reasons. I've got evidence that he's been excused all day. Now, then, another interview by Mr Ludvík Hovorka, and Mrs Dana Váhalová, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u82	Thank you for the floor. vážený Minister, at the Faculty Hospital Motol is a building, apparently it is a nurse's hostel, and there are four rooms in this building, two of which have been established from former dryers, which is used by the Klíček Foundation and provides accommodation for parents of children who are particularly oncologically ill, and these parents live there while accompanying children. Parents are charged about CZK 50 per night, or a very symbolic amount. At present, however, the foundation fund has received notice from these premises and is to release these premises by the date of about the last July, with the need for hospitals for their own activities. When I asked the director of Ludvík's faculty hospital why this happened, I was told that the hospital cannot behave uneconomically and must properly manage its property. This means that there was some relationship that apparently was not on the basis of a lease agreement, even though the NF sought to conclude a lease agreement. [[16.10 hours]] As far as I know, the hospital is trying to build its own hotel accommodation for possible visits to children, etc. Nevertheless, I think it is nothing to do with anything, and besides hotel accommodation can continue to be provided accommodation for, say, a less wealthy group of parents. This cooperation has worked for 23 years. It is now to be terminated. I'd like to ask you what makes the faculty hospital think he's treating the foundation fund, how he's acting. Once it was said that he wanted to solve the accommodation with his own capacity, the second time that he needed it for the lodging of sisters. The argument is constantly evolving. I would like to ask you to take your place in order to maintain the possibility of providing affordable accommodation for wealthy parents. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u83	Thank you. You will certainly have the opportunity to ask an additional question. Please, Minister, give me an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Klíček Foundation and the Motol University Hospital have historically long worked together to promote joint hospitalization with parents during the provision of health services. In connection with this activity, the Klíček Foundation took care of part of the hostel space used by the parents of hospitalized children. The Klíček Foundation was accommodated by parents who paid for the accommodation directly to this foundation fund. He didn't pay the faculty hospital for the premises he took care of. Motol no rent precisely in respect of the relevant provisions of Law No. 219 on the property of a State which allows social purposes to be taken into account. Faculty Hospital Motol with regard to the currently ongoing extensive construction work of the children's section, respectively. Polyclinics, however, need to make maximum use of all available capacities and premises including the premises of the hostel. Further Faculty Hospital Motol has reconstructed part of existing accommodation capacities, which will be available both to accompanying hospitalized children, but also to other interested accommodations, e.g. adult escorts, especially non-Prague patients, nurses who are currently understaffed, interns etc. In the intention to reconstruct other parts of the hostel, the Faculty Hospital Motol wants to continue. However, these projects do not mean that accompanying hospitalized children would not be accommodated, or that their accommodation would require disproportionately higher amounts than that of the Klíček Foundation. Accommodation for parents is secured, is suitable and sufficient and currently offers exceed demand. It follows that by resetting the conditions for accommodation, parents will certainly not suffer any material or psychological damage. The presentation of the situation by the foundation fund is distorted. Unjustifiably, they instigate a sense of uncertainty in parents of underage patients and unwarranted negative emotions toward the hospital. The whole matter was discussed in detail with the representatives of the foundation fund personally, Ludvík The situation has been explained to them, including an outline of possibilities for further cooperation. For the Faculty Hospital Motol is currently a priority for the above reasons to resolve the release of the space that the foundation fund takes care of. However, he refuses to release them and instigates a media campaign against the hospital. The state property management is the responsibility of Motol University Hospital and any disposition with it must also be justified by economic benefits. I believe that the proposed procedure is quite legitimate and understandable and includes a serious offer to the foundation fund to address the whole situation within the framework of the legislative options. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u85	Thank you, too. The Member wishes to ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u86	Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. The reality may be a little different. Arguments by the Faculty Hospital The motol develops gradually. At first it was said that they needed space to set up accommodation. After that, they need it for the sisters from Ukraine who will come. The last option is that the premises will serve for the store of furniture and textiles etc. So it seems that the argument is not based entirely on some real basis that it is constantly evolving. Of course, I have no objection to the fact that the faculty hospital provides accommodation within its premises within its, say, secondary economic activities, but I suppose the accommodation will not be for the same money as the Klíček Foundation provides. [[Attention on time.]] So I would like to ask whether accommodation in hotel premises will be for the same means as provided by the Klíček foundation fund, and how it really is, because argument - state property laws etc. have been verified by the Ministry of Finance and it has not been confirmed that this is the case. [[once again a warning of the time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u87	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I, of course, present the information I received from Motol University Hospital. She is responsible for how property is used, respectively. what conditions he creates for his clients. I believe that they are trying to proceed to the maximum possible extent economically and at the same time friendly to clients. However, I will examine the situation again so that both children's patients and their escorts, as well as the interests and needs of the Motol University Hospital, are taken into account. That's all I can say at the moment, but I'll check the situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u89	Thank you. Mrs Dana Váhalová has another interview with the Minister of Justice. Mr Simeon Karamazov will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Government, Minister, dear colleagues, colleagues, one of the still un ratified conventions by the Czech Republic is also the Council of Europe Convention on measures against trafficking in human beings. This Convention is based primarily on the Palermo Protocol and other instruments previously adopted. It focuses on preventing trafficking in human beings. It strengthens the means of repression against traders and protects the rights and dignity of victims. It's a presidential agreement. The Government has already given its agreement to negotiate on 9 March 2016 by its resolution No. 200. I would like to ask, Minister, when do you presume to sign this convention? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u91	Thank you. And the Minister is already yelling at you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u92	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, thank you for the question. As for this convention in the long list of conventions that today's opposition has left us to resolve, it is incredibly long, so I have good news for you because the convention is already signed. It was signed on 2 May 2016. At this point, we are working intensively on the things that are necessary to bring forward the Convention to Parliament of the Czech Republic and to complete the ratification process. So you can expect it to come to you very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u93	Thank you. I want to ask you a follow-up question. Isn't that right? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u94	I'd rather say thank you, Minister. And I hope that the following series of agreements will have the same good fate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u95	Thank you, Madame. Now, Mr Karamazov's interpellation, also to the Minister of Justice. Mr. Jiří Zlatuška will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u96	Dear Minister, in academic circles you are known as a relatively large enemy of the recodification of private law, especially the newly adopted Civil Code and the Commercial Corporations Act. I have observed from a number of your speeches that these regulations are wrong in your opinion and need to be changed quickly before they cause irreversible damage in practice. That is how you expressed yourself after taking up your duties as Minister of Justice. I'm not a lawyer to evaluate both regulations thoroughly. However, when I look at House Press No. 642, which is to present the ministerial amendment to the Civil Code, I was disappointed. Instead of a really complex amendment, we have a torso with several dozen amendments. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, what is behind the proposed proposal? Is this a change in your view of the quality of the Civil Code or the slow work of the Ministry's employees? Or perhaps a lack of political will to change the key private code? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u97	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u98	Mr President, honourable Members, thank you for this question. I am indeed known in academic circles as one of the most vocal opponents of the new codification. I insist on my opinions, and I fear that their truthfulness is gradually beginning to show in practice. With this I also joined the Ministry of Justice, not at that time in the position of minister but in the position of First Deputy, and at that time we worked out with my legislation a rather extensive amendment, a concept of a large amendment to the Civil Code, because we actually held that, in the first year of application of the Code, the belief that there is still time to make such an extensive change, because most practice has not yet started to apply the Code properly. At that time, however, we came across the decision of my predecessor, who did not agree to such a large change for legitimate reasons, and therefore only a small amendment was chosen, which you now have in your hands here in Parliament. I did not resume the work later because I believe that time has passed in the meantime, and time is an important factor in this regard. Meanwhile, the practice started using the code as it is, and I didn't want to destabilize the practice. So we have the novel prepared, and now we're doing work to evaluate the already intriguing first knowledge from practice, and we want to use these documents to then prepare a bigger amendment with some distance from the effectiveness of the new Code. Now we're focusing on the little novel, and we're also listening to what's going on in practice, what's going on in the doctrine, and we're only going to introduce a bigger novel after we've finished the little amendment. As far as the Commercial Corporations Act is concerned, the situation is different. There I was able to establish a relatively broad representative group of experts and we are able to find consensus there, which was a problem with the Civil Code. Somehow the authors were very hard against any changes. This is not the case with the Commercial Corporations Act, so the consensus is better there, and the amendment that we are submitting to the legislative process in the coming weeks is therefore substantially more ambitious, even though it is not a rewrite of the Commercial Corporations Act, but it is a change in a number of minor things that may have been neglected there. So much for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u99	Thank you, Minister. There will be an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u100	Thank you for quite a logical answer. As far as the Civil Code is concerned, do you have any idea of the time horizon of the larger change?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u101	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u102	In the autumn of this year, I am making such a trip to the judicial districts where we will discuss with judges from the first line in particular, i.e. from the district courts, their experience with the new Civil Code, and this collection of knowledge should be followed by preparatory work at the beginning of the next year. Obviously, he'll be on my successor after the election to send this thing to the legislative process.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u103	Thank you. Mr. Jiří Zlatuška will be the next to perform with his interview. He's going to interpel Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek. Mr. Chalupa will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u104	Dear Vice Prime Minister, with the exception of a few hours a month ago, the information system for research and development at the Office of the Government has been shut down. Today, the website www.rvvi.cz is in operation, which is like a new system of faces. Next to it, the Science Group's website is alive! == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man The page Science works as a standard information system. What is being operated at the Office of the Government is only the opening screen, the vast majority of the links say that they are not functional. On the other hand, you told the newspaper to this system that the system is functional: "Today, when anyone needs any question, he can ask us and we will answer him because we have the data. " From that, I'm guessing that there's a call center operating instead of a computer system that's not listed anywhere, there's no phone numbers, there's no web addresses to ask about it. So I'd like to ask you about the operating parameters of this system, which is responsible for how many people work in that call center, how many questions per hour these people are able to answer in this way what the cost of the whole thing is and why you didn't reach the simpler thing you could, giving the full data of the Science Association lives and making reference to their site at least for the selection of information about the few hundred thousand results that are registered in the RIF database.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u105	Thank you. I'll ask the Vice Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, negotiated procedure without publication, which ended at the request of the ČVUT consortium and the company InfoScience Praha, is a fundamental reason why JŘBU did not end up in agreement. It was a matter of price. At the repeated request of the Office of the Government for assistance in securing operations at the time of JŘB, it did not submit such an offer that the Office could legally use. Your question, then. There is no call center, but it is possible to contact any query with standard email addresses that are publicly accessible. Since we have the data, we are able to respond to it very quickly without any extra costs in our own direction. Currently part of the registration of public competitions is in full operation, shortcut VES. It is possible to insert and publish inserted data. Part of the research, development, innovation of the CEA is in non-public testing operation and this part should be made available to the public next week. Parts of the central project log and the record of results will be made available to the public by the end of July 2016. CEP and RIV, which are the most complex, are already analyzed and search forms are created. Something already works on the rvvi.cz page. We have introduced the government to the timetable for the acquisition of individual parameters, the government has taken note of this, and we are supplementing this schedule. If anyone has any questions, they can contact us by e-mail or by phone and we will answer them because we have the data. With regard to communication with individual partners, all providers' representatives have been informed about the way it is provided, the Council of the Government for Research, Science and Innovation has also been informed about this, and it has been appreciated that we are not just putting the system into operation, but we are putting more user comfort in it, which means that it should also have a new quality. So in case anyone needs any information, we're able to give it to him both by phone and by e-mail. It is certainly true that communication with providers will also maintain a system of batch transfer of information to the system using XML, which is necessary especially for the RIV and CEP data module and which allows the maintenance of third-party applications used by major institutions in the field of science. As far as Science is concerned, it lives!, so it's a civic association. We have all the data we need, and we are able to file all the information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u107	Thank you. The Member is about to ask an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u108	Dear Vice Prime Minister, I don't consider the answer you gave correct here and it's simply moping the eyes of the public. The system doesn't work, civil society. Science is alive! it was able to implement in less than 14 days to a fully functional state, even so that basically all external internet links work into it. There's no information on how to request data by phone or e-mail on that malfunctioning site. To call this system functional, I think it's a decent word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u109	Mr. Vice Prime Minister doesn't want to answer, or I also didn't understand any of the questions. Apparently, the Member did not have any further question in mind. Let's move on to the seventh interpellation. Mr Bohuslav Chalupa will intersect the absent Home Secretary Milan Chovanec on the current state of security of the Czech Post. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u110	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent minister, why 14 4. 2016 in Parliament at the interview of Mr Horáček on safety at post offices and in a letter to Vice-President of the Security Committee, you are not proving to be telling Mr Zahradníček the truth, thereby exposing postal workers and the entire public to an increased risk of life and health? I ask about this in connection with the robbery of mail in Karlovy Vary, where there was a gross violation of the rules of security and protection of employees of the Czech Post office. The branch was and is fully connected to the supervision of Česká pošta Security, s. r. o. which, thanks to its chaotic and unprofessional procedure, sent the Police of the Czech Republic to another branch. Has the Police of the Czech Republic investigated this event? Have the culprits been dealt with? How? Who, in particular, bears direct responsibility for not securing the mail in Skřípov, where she was brutally murdered by the head of the post when you were personally and in writing several times since 20. 7. 2014 has been shown to have been informed at the moment, even though you did so during the interview on 14. 4. 2016 in Parliament denied? Is it true that hundreds of mail offices have been unprofessionally disconnected and even 70 of them are still left unattended, which is expertly documented? In how many post offices did the Czech Post Security, s. r. o., not even after the deadline, prescribed revisions and checks of security systems according to the Czech state standard? Why do we still have no information about whether or not the central security offices of the Czech Post have the necessary certification? Do you realize that you risk endangering all the people at the post office? How are you going to deal with this? You don't mind Mr. Mgr Petr Zoubek, formerly the security director of the post office, co-worker of Roman Janoušek, was released from the post office for investigating corruption in 2012 and is now working again in the Czech Post Security, s. r. o. when you were informed about these relations with Roman Janoušek and his investigation by the Police of the Czech Republic in 2014? Don't you consider this a serious security risk? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u111	Thank you, honourable Member. The Minister is not present, so he will be answered in writing. Mrs Věra Kovářová will also intersect the absent Minister Andrej Babiš on the matter of public custody. Please. [[Minister Babiš stands at the government bench, Mrs Kovářová points the President off the microphone.]] Oh, sorry, Minister. I apologize to the Minister, the Minister is present. I've got you written here as excused, so I'm canceling Minister Babiš's apology. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u112	Dear Minister, we weren't expecting you anymore because you were excused for no reason. I'm so glad you could make it, and I hope your meeting at the restaurant was for your benefit and for the benefit of everyone present. And now to interpellation in the matter of public custody. I was pleased to hear that there was finally a consensus in the government on the future form of financing the performance of the public guardianship. I do not want to assess whether the system and parameters are the best possible, but the undoubted progress is that there has been a consensus among the ministers involved. However, I would like to return to my question, which I asked the Minister during the last interpellation and to which unfortunately the reply from the Minister did not come. My question was as follows: A number of municipalities and cities have carried out this activity on their own account. In fact, they represented a state that did not contribute in any tangible way to their performance. Especially in the case of smaller municipalities and cities on whose territory social institutions are located, this would mean considerable expenditure and would mean. Not to mention organizational and other loads. Wouldn't it be reasonable and fair to give these authorities some compensation under the new law? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u113	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u114	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to comment on the restaurant. It wasn't a restaurant, it was a cookie. They only have beer, soft drink, sometimes drowned. And he was a cookie, where President Dlouhý of the Chamber of Commerce was, and the owner Šimekn't know what EET was, he doesn't have a cash register, that's where he writes it on the tickets. And I took the liberty of going there at 13 o'clock. I think you guys were on a break. So I wasn't even at lunch today, so I apologize to all the opposition MPs that I took the liberty of working through lunch break and explaining to the businessman and Mrs. Wife what EET is. I stayed there until 13.50. Maybe if I were to report my lunch break next time, I'm ready to do it, of course. With regard to the contribution to the administration's performance and funding, I think it has moved in our government, and we have actually released money for public custody for the first time. For many years, no one has dealt with it, and municipalities have been calling for it for many years. For the first time - and I think it was also appreciated by the President of the Association of Municipalities and Cities, Mr Lukl - we therefore released CZK 350 million. With regard to the contribution to the administration's performance, a 5% increase has been proposed since 2017, i.e. they will receive an additional half-billion CZK of territorial budgets compared to 2016. Of this is 375 million for the municipalities, for Prague 42 and for the regions 53. So I think we're trying to compensate. Moreover, municipalities are getting considerably more money from the RUD because we have an extra 30 billion taxes collected year on year, so it must be seen in these budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u115	Thank you, Minister. Please, Madame, an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u116	Thank you for your answer, Minister. You didn't answer my question about custody, and it concerns whether it would be appropriate to compensate those past costs, because for some municipalities it was really millions of dollars. And I feel that some municipalities have already filed a constitutional complaint. Otherwise, I very much welcome the way in which public custody will be dealt with in the future. Otherwise, you inspired me with your explanation about the cookie, but I don't know if the businessmen are really confused about the effectiveness of the law. So whether I could ask about the final timetable for the implementation of the EET in this context, because I think we have now learned about delaying efficiency or planned delaying efficiency. If you could explain to me what the final EET schedule is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u117	Please, Minister, for your follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u118	Thank you for the floor. I thought the honourable Member was satisfied that we were the first government to handle this, and that we had released CZK 350 million, and plus the compensation is through the taxes we collect extra. And about the EET, when the Chamber of Commerce invites us to a debate, I respond, and nothing's changed. Now, of course, the term that was, 1. 12th, and we're having a discussion about it, there are different opinions about it. And, of course, why I couldn't discuss it or express an opinion. Nothing's been postponed or delayed, the original term is valid. However, I go to companies, I go to tradesmen, I perceive their demands, their opinions, and we do various seminars. I said that I perceived the demand of the Chamber of Commerce that I was thinking about it, but I never said that something was being postponed or that something was changing. It's like it's smiling, so even if it moves, like I think it doesn't move, 26 years we haven't had any records of sales, and now it's kind of a concern that we're talking about it. Yes, it's an adventure, it's before Christmas. I have no doubt that someone will organize a jeweller who is wronged, that in Old Man, if I go to a welder or a twig, there will be someone who collapses, as it happens, I have no doubt that the enemies of the EET will take care of it. But nothing's changed yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u119	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Jiří Valenta, who will interpelise the Minister of Education Kateřina Valachová on the suitability of using the state emblem, will give the ninth interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u120	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, I would like to hear your opinion, as the head of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, and now the body in this case in particular. I would ask you about the simple fact that on the representation jerseys of our athletes, most recently on uniforms of football representatives of the Czech Republic, specifically on Eura, discovers a symbol, a sign which does not visually consider Moravia and Silesia as an integral part of the Czech Republic, although Act No. 352/2001 Coll. In its Article 3 (3) (a) (ii) and (iii) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Parliament and the Council shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the application of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union relating to the application of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 3 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Article 4 (1) (a) (g) it clearly determines the use of the so-called large state emblem, which fully corresponds to this requirement, in the case of representation of the Czech Republic. I am literally quoting from this law: "The great state character is used for the external marking of the jersey of athletes representing the Czech Republic." Dear Minister, do you not think that this is a violation of the law in force by the Soccer Association of the Czech Republic, which, with its negative interference into the patriotic sense of some citizens of the Czech Republic, can cause or record completely unnecessary friction between residents of Bohemia, Moravia and Silesia? I ask this question to you because I have been approached by dozens of people who have seen this sign, or torso of a large state emblem, on the jerseys of representatives of the Czech Republic in football on television shows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u121	Thank you. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u122	Mr President, honourable Members, as far as the law quoted is concerned, this is not an option from my point of view, but a real obligation, because this can be seen from the other options mentioned or the so-called possibilities. And, of course, the practice interprets them as an obligation. In terms of explaining whether or not it is a small state emblem, I believe here that we can define it as a logo of representation, which is also used by other countries within the football environment, but that does not change the fact that from my point of view our representatives should have that great state emblem. For this reason, I would like to propose that we discuss the situation that took place on Eura at the National Sports Council in August and then give a clear report on how this will be ensured in the sports environment for the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u123	Thank you. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u124	Thank you. Not even a thank-you question. You satisfied me with that answer. Of course, you know that our Constitution begins with the words: We, citizens of the Czech Republic in Bohemia, Moravia and Silesia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u125	Well, more of those happy answers. Thank you, Madam Secretary and Ambassador. Mr. Josef Nekl, who will interpelise the present Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický, will present the tenth interview in the matter of information on the passage of the U.S. Army through the territory of the Czech Republic. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u126	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, yesterday afternoon the Chamber of Deputies discussed the activities of the Ministry of Defence forces and resources in foreign operations in 2017 and 2018. Although some performances were also affected by the location and residence of other troops, especially the United States Army, in foreign territories, I did not speak to this issue because it was unrelated to the negotiating point. So I'm using today's interventions to get information. I would therefore like to ask you how long the United States Army has remained in our military facilities, that is, in Vyškov and in Práslavice, and with what aim besides training cooperation with the Army of the Czech Republic. In public space I got information that the passage of the U.S. Army through our territory was not only a so-called practice of logistics and synergies, but that it was in a way a covert maneuver for the composition and location of weapons and ammunition in Vyškov and in Práslavice, which lies by the way in my electoral region. That is why I am asking you, Minister: Is this information true? If so, why was the Czech Parliament not informed about the location of foreign weapons in our territory? Is the location of weapons for the construction of a US military base on our territory, and thus the implementation of another temporary stay? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u127	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I confess to you that I was under the impression that I had already basically told all the screws and mothers about the transfer, but I can see that I didn't quite complete everything. I know it may not be customary to ask questions from here, but I would almost flaunt myself and ask where you have information, through Mr President, that perhaps some such material should be stored somewhere. I'm getting information on how much I sold the United States of Brdy for. I'd take the liberty of almost putting it in the same category. We may not be spared similar information even in the future. On the contrary, there will be more and more of this information and their strategy, the intention and a certain objective are quite white. The transfer was well planned, we were approached by our American allies on 26 November last year. This time it was conceived as a transfer combined with the exercise, with the training that both sides were interested in, and it was ensured as the movement was gradually realized. They were there in the lodgings, whether it was in Ruzyn or in Práslavice and Vyškov. And, of course, I can also show you in detail the program of the individual stops. This time it was, I would say, a more professional move in the sense, except for one exception that was specifically requested by citizens, and it was such an open day in Vyškov or a day, it was about three hours, so it was actually strictly limited to the cooperation of the two armies. I can give you the numbers, I can give you the technique. But as I said in the beginning, I think I've already presented that in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u129	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Ambassador, your follow-up question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u130	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Then I will answer the question to the Minister. I'm gonna read the answer first, and then I'm gonna tell you who it's from and where it's from. In the last article, you reported on the weapons that the American convoy composed in the barracks of our army. None of the government's representatives responded to this. Why do you think he's silent? Answer? As I subsequently discovered, U.S. trucks put down weapons and ammunition not only in Vyškov but also in Práslavice. The reasons for this operation covered by the passage of the convoy of armored transports with circus advertising can therefore be argued, and so on, and so on. And it is the answer of military analyst Martin Koller to the Parliamentary Lists. That's why I asked you what's true about this, if there's anything going on here, and I got this question from about five citizens from our region who live in the area of Práslavice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u131	Thank you. Please, Minister, your follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u132	Thank you, Mr President. I don't want to touch any periodical, and I won't. But I would ask very much, or it would be nice if we had at least confidence in these elementary matters, my colleague, through Mr President, and the information that we share about something that has a certain sensitivity, I have no doubt, and where citizens can ask themselves questions, and how we report it is what reflects reality. And we certainly don't resort to such practices to secretly deposit or store, or unload some ammunition. Perhaps there was some cross-hearing or oversight in the sense that, of course, ammunition was being carried to the Anakonda exercise in Poland and that it could have been composed during the interruption or during the night of the transfer. I really don't know at this point, I'd have to ask those people right here in Práslavice. But certainly not with the aim of burying it somewhere secretly. So I can only leave behind, or rely on our mutual trust that information of this type here, believe me, I'm presenting with some seriousness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u133	Thank you, Minister. Mr Petr Kořenek will interpel in the eleventh interview of the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok on the reconstruction of the railway station Vsetín. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Dear absent minister, even though we have spoken many times, I would like to ask you to clarify the deadline for the reconstruction of the railway station Vsetín. We both know that a lot of work has been done, a lot of negotiations have taken place. Currently, the Central Commission of the Ministry of Transport is preparing the approval of a feasibility study on the route Hranice - Střelná. I would like to remind you that this is the 30th largest railway station with the number of passengers and there is currently an absolutely uncomfortable situation for passengers to arrive. There is an impossibility of entering and exiting a disabled citizen. These are all things that deserve this reconstruction to take place as soon as possible and, of course, further reconstruction of railway stations within the region. And here I would like to add my question when the reconstruction will take place in Valašské Meziříčí, Rožnov pod Radhoštěm and Bystřice pod Hostýn. I therefore ask for your opinion and possible timetable for the possible reconstruction of these railway stations, while thanking you for your helpfulness and cooperation so far to improve the transport infrastructure of our region.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u135	Thank you, honourable Member. The Minister is not present. You will therefore be answered in writing. In the twelfth interview, Mrs Olga Havlová will interpel the present Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček in the matter of accompanying children in the hospital. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u136	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister. I'd like to ask you about adapting hospitals to the presence of handicapped parents in children's patients. I was approached by a handicapped father whose five - year - old child is to perform surgery at a specialized children's clinic in Brno, Montenegro. These are cases where a sick child is fixated on a parent whose physical handicap causes him not to take care of them himself. However, the father cannot take care of the child himself in the hospital and the mother must be present. The hospital offered the mother accommodation only in the hostel, and although the parents were willing to pay for the above standard, the hospital either does not want them present with the child or can not provide and the child would be traumatized. I would therefore like to ask whether hospitals are able to respond to such an extraordinary situation, especially when it comes to a specialized children's clinic. Our handicapped citizens still have a very difficult life, so at least this little thing could help them in life. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u137	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u138	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, may I say that my office here has prepared a general answer on how to accompany parents with sick children. However, I suppose the Member, through the President, does not want to know this. I understand, of course, that there is a particular case where, as it has been described to me, there is a great deal of interest in this special case of the child and his parents in order to sort it out in some way, and the child has been accompanied by its parents, who are specific in this, that they need some special conditions from the point of view of the medical facility. Of course, I don't know this case, and then I'm gonna ask for some specific data, possibly the Nationals of those patients, and I'm gonna deal with the head of the Brno University Hospital. I suppose, and now allow me, again, through Mr President, that this is probably due to the fact that the building layout of the health facility was realized at a time that did not fully remember the approach of such handicapped patients, or the handicapped parents of the child, and that it is not quite easy to solve technically. But I think that where there is goodwill, it would somehow be possible. I firmly believe that we will be able to start a programme of reconstruction of major large hospitals in the Czech Republic during this parliamentary term, as approved by the government last year, and it will be possible to think about these cases in these reconstructions, thinking about handicapped ones, so that it does not cause any technical difficulties. But once again, I will specifically investigate this case, I will call, I will find out, and I believe that, with good will, there will be some way to deal with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u139	Thank you, Minister. Is the Member satisfied with the answer? Thank you. And then we can move on to the 13th interpellation. However, I do not see Mr Beznoska, so his interpellation is failing. We'll proceed to the 14th interpellation. Mr Karel Rais will intersect Vice Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek on the issue of the failure and operation of the R&D&I information system. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u140	Have a good day. I had no idea that my colleague, Zlatuška, was going to ask a similar problem. Then I'd follow up on what's already been said here. From my point of view, the problem is falling into two planes. One plane is essentially the operation of the RIV information subsystem, because university funds are linked to this, and this is a key issue. In fact, the second plane is more or less a legal or business-legal relationship between the entity and the Authority. Because that's where I think there's another problem. So that's the first problem. During May data were sent from research organisations on RIV results for 2015. That's standard stuff. But by the fact that the system isn't basically functional, how do we know that this data has been correctly retrieved and that it will be evaluated correctly and in time? There, when I look at the website, you talk about the deadline for data transmission being set by 29 May for the results of research organisations, such as universities, and at the same time on the same page you say that the RIV system will be gradually put into operation during July. Here's the problem of the quality of information delivery and the acquisition of information from the RIV, from the subsystem, is obvious. [[17,00 hours]] Then, as a person who has spent a few decades, or at least a few years at a computing center in a variety of functions, I'm surprised that there's basically no copy of the information system and that I think you're more or less official and that you're some kind of hostage to a private entity that... [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] So the second question is what is the current state of affairs with the consortium that operated the R&D&I information system, and how do you ensure that there is no further financial blackmail of the state institution, I mean your section, by private entity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u141	Thank you. Please, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u142	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues with regard to RIV, we have the data, it has run out, so far the evaluation 2015/2016 is not in any way at risk, i.e. all the data was accepted in May with the fact that what is the only thing that will be launched within a few days is the preview. That means nothing's gone missing. We have all the data, it's backed up, and there's no problem. What came up somewhere, that RIV had ended and that we didn't have it, isn't just true. As far as backup is concerned, copies, all the data we have, it's backed up, we have them available. As far as the consortium is concerned, they only gave us data, and they didn't give us the rest, and that's a legal relationship. As far as the relationship with the consortium is concerned, they have withdrawn from JŘBU, we are now discussing some legal aspects that I would not want to comment on now, given that it is a rather complex legal matter, but as soon as possible, we will inform the public about the course of the entire JŘBU, the course of why this happened, why the originally very optimistic expectations were not fulfilled. Of course, we are bound to behave like good farmers. It is a problem that we have inherited in some way, from the beginning we have tried to agree. But we can't break the Public Procurement Act. That means, even the transfer period under the terms they offered us, we could not accept the public procurement law. Of course, I'm sorry about the complications that have happened, I've deduced the consequences, my deputy is responsible for the system, and he felt it on the money. As a result, we will continue to operate the entire system in our own direction, withdraw from outsourcing, the system will be cheaper. Why maybe some things are still not started, there is a reason that we want it to have better quality, i.e. not only will it be restored, but it will be in a different, more comfortable situation for users. I think the first functionality, as we have news from RVVI, is appreciated that it will be easier. For example, if you send a dose, there is a mistake, it will not send everything back, but only what is problematic etc. So the system is gradually coming in. We have argued as a government that we want to fight corruption and waste public funds, and the result that will be that nothing like this will happen again, because it will run the section of the Office of the Government or the Office of the Government itself in its own direction, i.e. we'll be full of masters over the system, we'll have people there to deal with it, i.e. we won't depend on any suppliers or subcontractors. In parallel with the programmer's work, the installation of technical equipment for operation at the Office of the Government, i.e. not in a supplier's way, including servers, is carried out in our own direction. The personnel capacity of the Information System Department is expanding so that we can start running it all ourselves. In addition to the open tender, the creation of new software will be ensured over the next 30 months and we assume that all the most important functions will be provided as much as possible. Then we'll try to get it in our own direction. This arrangement should therefore, in particular, reduce costs. That's what I want to declare. Our goal is to make it cheaper than the current operation, both for operation and for adjustments, and legal uncertainty should be removed, respectively. dispute, who and under what conditions and to what extent is entitled to dispose of the software. With regard to third party authorisation, the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic gives a good prospect of obtaining better conditions in the future. So to repeat, all the data that has been sent, we have, we have historically, we work with them and we will gradually make them visible for higher quality and user comfort. We have the data and the situation should not be repeated precisely because it will be operated by the Office of the Government in its direction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u143	Thank you. Mr Member, I would like to ask you an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u144	I'm interested in you getting rid of the outsourcing because I'm convinced that those programmers are "blackmailing" you financially. Now the question is, roughly one knows the costs of the current system, and now you're saying that the costs will be less. Frankly, I'm too much of a practice to believe that. Let's have fun in Czech. Do you have any idea of the costs in a year or two?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u145	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u146	We have ideas, but, as I said, for reasons of law, we still have to wait a few weeks, and then in the order of weeks, we introduce the whole genesis, explain all the reasons, because we don't want to get into a legally uncomfortable situation afterwards. JŘBU was only completed on Monday, i.e. even the calculation will then be provided with the fact that, of course, the continuation, as proposed by the consortium, could continue under the same conditions, but those conditions have already been agreed many and many years ago, and here it can be assumed that the savings will be quite significant. So we're going to give specific numbers when it's legal, because we don't want to make a mistake with some time lag.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u147	Thank you. Let's move on to another interpellation. Mr Antonín Seďa will intersect Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický in matters of personnel policy. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u148	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, on Monday a closed seminar was held by the Defence Committee around the impact of the amendment to the Occupational Soldiers Act. For work reasons in the region I could not attend, but I received a given presentation for which I thank you. However, in my opinion, not all the objectives expected from this amendment of the law, especially from the perspective of a transparent career for the personnel stability of our army, have been met. Practice shows that the new career order began to be used so that a soldier in the army would stay between 10 and 14 years so that he would not be entitled to a retainer. Furthermore, with the amendment of the law, unit commanders lost the authority to extend the obligations of professional soldiers. That is why I want to ask you a few questions, Minister. In the army, 5,500 soldiers are missing, and I ask why the Department of Defense is wasting human resources and even experienced soldiers are getting rid of them. After all, a trained and experienced soldier is better at ensuring the country's defense than a new recruiter. Minister, why does the state secretary decide not to be and not to be professional soldiers? And why doesn't the General Staff decide not to extend or extend the obligations of professional soldiers, but the Ministry of Defence? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u149	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u150	Thank you, Mr President. At the very beginning of that answer, I would take the liberty of strictly rejecting the fact that the military is wasting human potential or even getting rid of it. That's a completely inappropriate fact. Of course, Law 221, which has been significantly amended and which brings into military career, I think, the desirable order and rules and predictability, so it is not perfect either. We've been collecting all kinds of impulses from soldiers all year round that could be improved on him. We also had an exit meeting with the Committee on Defence of the Chamber of Deputies on Tuesday or Monday this week, where we discussed a number of these matters, and perhaps the question also results a little bit from the fact that the interviewer did not attend this exit meeting. [[17.10 hours]] However, I would like to remind you that it is a bit different in the army, but it is undoubtedly the Member who knows that the service of a professional soldier is a fixed-term service, or, unlike, for example, police officers, it is not a lifelong occupation. This is intended to allow not only the establishment of a career progression of soldiers, but also the ongoing replenishment of the backup needed by the military for its development in the event of war. I believe that the government has been trying from the outset - but not only trying, but also achieving certain results - to pay much more attention to the armed forces. And, of course, we also pay attention to the alignment of systems in the management of careers of professional soldiers. But specifically, what I really cannot accept is that someone would decide whether or not to be soldiers within the armed forces or the ministry. Nobody. There isn't a man alone who has a monopoly on the fact that, with his thumb up or his thumb down, he's making decisions about careers of professional soldiers. The questioner evidently had in mind the decision to extend the duration of the service of specific soldiers. And I'm gonna follow up on what I said a few seconds ago. The extension of the duration of the service is not automatic. The service authorities that decide on the extension require a number of opinions on the soldier, which I think is correct, which will allow them to assess the need for armed forces to continue the service of the soldier. These opinions provide both superiors of the soldier, i.e. those who know him from everyday contact and from his immediate performance, and then the authorities responsible for individual military expertise, but also other parts of the ministry, which may have important knowledge of the soldiers. There is a State Secretary in the Ministry of Defence among those who speak. This is natural, please, because it is really a personnel deputy, i.e. a person who focuses on all information of a personnel nature not only about soldiers in the Czech army, but about all soldiers, that is, soldiers from the military police, castle guards, in military schools, at the Ministry, but also from military hospitals. Indeed, this information is not available to the Chief of Staff or to his personnel. And then I would, because, after all, the issue is relatively complex and requires a certain detail, but I will limit myself to the fact that, as far as the assumption is concerned, after perhaps ten or fourteen years, we would have been fired so that the soldiers would not be entitled to a retainer, so I would, with permission, consider it almost as spreading a warning message or a slander. I really don't know who's spreading that. Reality is quite different. In fact, entitlement to pension requirements has been in place since the second year and has been increasing continuously. While 15 years of service will result in a claim for new benefits, a pension and a severance grant, but their amount is relatively small at this point and most soldiers therefore prefer to choose still available. In assessing whether the duration of the service is to be extended, the duration of the total service and the entitlement to the duties shall not be assessed at all. This is also due to statistical data. To conclude, just to clarify that 46 soldiers who lost their service between 12 and 15 years of service were only 13, who were only months short until the completion of 15 years of service, and out of them the period of service was reduced by their application and the other 4 did not agree to extend the period of parental leave. So much for clarification. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u151	Thank you, Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u152	Thank you. Dear Minister, I think we all have a little bit of different information. I have to say, both in letters that come in my e-mails and in conversations with soldiers, but also on various servers, these cases are repeated. Yeah, maybe they're individuals. But I insist that there is a waste of human resources. I asked why the Secretary of State would decide why it wasn't decided by the commanders who knew the soldiers directly. But I will complete the question. So what is the state secretary's specific procedure in deciding the future fate of soldiers? And are you really convinced, Minister, that the original intention of the law to establish a new career process is consistent with today's reality? Why, when the army declares that it wants to put newcomers and experienced educated soldiers above, doesn't it? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u153	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister, give me an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u154	Thank you, Mr President. If the Member insists on his views or figures, I cannot answer differently than I do. And we can call it a statement against a statement here. But if it moves us, I don't think so. But I just have official data. I don't have any data from the servers, I don't have any data from someone who might have stepped on a chicken eye. Not to find among 22,000 soldiers anyone who doesn't feel like they're being treated perfectly and above all according to their own ideas, so we probably wouldn't be in this world, but in some kind of Atlantis. Just because someone is complaining, and someone is saying something out loud, and someone is arguing and faking, doesn't mean that it really is. And above all, it doesn't mean the whole system is wrong. After all, we talked about him many times and talked about him, and we used to cross him and pre-exercise him. I think we voted for him together. Otherwise, I don't know exactly if we're feeling ourselves, because the Secretary of State, I have to repeat, isn't the monopolistic evaluator, the only person to decide the fates of people. As the first person to decide and have a major influence on it, I have mentioned the superior of the soldier - the superior, I repeat the third time. So not the Secretary of State. I don't think I'd go any further than that. But I confess that I'm quite sorry that a partial case maybe, maybe two, maybe three, sometimes imprecisely presented, is being generalized and interpreted almost as some kind of perversion. I can't agree with that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u155	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Jana Hnyková, who will interpel the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman in the case of the Act on Public Cultural Institutions, will give the 16th interview. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u156	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, have a lovely afternoon. On Monday, Mr Minister, I was visited by the director of the Šaldo Theatre in Liberec and the director of the Naive Theatre in my parliamentary office and asked for the support of House Press 797, Senate Bill on Public Cultural Institutions and on the amendment of some laws, or Act on Public Cultural Institutions, which was delivered to the Chamber of Deputies on 26 April 2016. In our interview, I learned that your Ministry is preparing this bill as well. I don't want to discuss the financing of regional cultural institutions. We both know how regional cultural institutions survive and fight for their place in the sun. But this law would be very helpful. My question is what form the bill is in and when it will be finished and when it will come to the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u157	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Minister. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u158	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, the subject of new legislation for cultural actors is alternately more or less current for a long time. The first considerations were made in the second half of the 1990s. As the environment changes in this area, the expectations associated with this institute are also changing. One thing remains common, however, is the assumption of a guarantee of funds. As far as House Press No 797, the Senate Bill on Public Cultural Institutions is concerned, its promoters also declare the creation of systemic assumptions for the financial stability of cultural institutions, which the proposal does not secure. Not only for this reason, the government adopted a negative opinion on the proposal. At this point, I do not want to widen the argument of such aspects as the lack of clarity of a private or public nature proposed by a public cultural institution. However, I consider it necessary to highlight at least some of the shortcomings of the proposal. [[17.20 hours]] In particular, a number of issues relating to the management regime are essential. On many points, unfortunately, the link to the law on the property of the Czech Republic is ignored. In view of the sources of assets of a public cultural institution, which should, inter alia, be State property, the proposed adjustment is completely inappropriate in terms of interest in protecting it. The possibility of setting up additional subsidiaries may also be considered high risk, in particular because of the loss of control over their management. It is clear from this that the government could not accept any other than a negative position. Nevertheless, I understand the efforts of processors to address specific management, management, remuneration or financial stability requirements of institutions active in the field of culture. It is also true that, according to the programme statement, the government is to adopt a law on a public institution in culture that will eliminate the shortcomings of today's contribution organisations, depoliticate them and ensure their stable funding. It is, of course, necessary to evaluate any shortcomings in the existing legislation and the functioning of the contribution organisations in order to fulfil this task, which takes time. Therefore, the deadline for submitting a government bill was postponed twice. Now, according to the legislative work plan of the Government, it is set for August. A substantial part of the legislative work is the processing of so-called an assessment of the effects of regulation on the basis of which the most appropriate solution proposal is currently decided. It follows from the discussions and evidence that the possibility of setting up a more cultural institution is an essential requirement. I can already say that the Government's bill will certainly not contain the possibility of establishing a cultural institution jointly by the state and municipalities or by the state and the region. On the other hand, it is obvious that more citizens or cities or communities and regions should be allowed to establish a common cultural institution. In many cases, especially urban theatres logically provide cultural services not only for the citizens of the city, but for the entire region. The Ministry of Culture must take into account, last but not least, the existence of a new Civil Code, which regulates a number of questions for all forms of legal persons. It is also an indistinguishable fact that the need for new legislation, virtually. Major changes in operation are identified mainly for regional theatres or orchestras and choirs. From other areas, such as museums, this demand does not sound. Finally, let me return to the beginning of my speech, where I mentioned the problem of financial stability of cultural institutions, for which sufficient funding is needed throughout the system. As regards regional theatres and permanent symphony orchestras and choirs, the Ministry of Culture participates in their funding through a programme in which 73,4 million are allocated for 2016. Crowns. The Ministry of Culture is constantly seeking to increase funds in this programme and I believe that if this succeeds, a significant part of the problem of cultural institutions will be resolved. Thus, by the end of August, our bill will be submitted to the Government and then to the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u159	Thank you, Minister. The Member is excellently satisfied. Thank you, Minister. Mrs Jana Fischerová, who will interpelise the Minister of Education Kateřina Valachová on inclusion and its financing, will give another interview. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u160	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, I'll be brief. Inclusion, that's a word that's been used here for the last year very often. In addition to inclusion, inclusio, from the Latin name, means more inclusion in life for students, for pupils, and it should prepare them for life, the education. And now I will have specific questions, because, as we have been told here, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports will consider the resources for assistants to be entitled and will therefore be paid by the State. I have learned from some media that it will be different, that templates have already been written out, namely that they will be funds for a certain period of time from operational programmes. So I'm wondering where the truth is, how it's going to be and if it's going to be for a fixed period. Alternatively, if it were from operational programs, so whether this, as it will continue afterwards. And if they have the same access to it, so-called. practical or special schools. I said my questions like that, and I think all I have to do is have answers for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u161	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u162	Mr President, honourable Members, as far as teaching assistants are concerned, the truth is that, as in this year's year, as well as in the following, the assistants of the teacher will be financed by the state budget, that is to say from national sources. As regards other positions that are already in schools, such as school psychologists or special educators, it is true that these positions have also been called. templates by which individual schools can apply for these positions and receive funding for them. As far as these positions are concerned, they operate under support measures so that, in the case of aid measures 4 and 5 it is possible to grant to a child or school of a special teacher or school psychologist, and in this case not one or the other option will occur, but the means can be combined. This means that if the child receives support measures in the form of a special educator or a school psychologist from the school facility in question, then if this position is already in school, whether it is financed from national or European sources, it is okay. If it doesn't, as far as the payment is concerned, the 4th and 5th levels of support will be that it will be from national sources, up to 0.5 of the time. Then there can be a situation where the school has a European position of this kind, while the child receives this level of support. Then the funds will be combined and it will be possible to cover the school's costs up to 1.0. This means the basis of the national 0.5, as guaranteed by the decree, and the support measure, plus the extension of 0.5 extra time and funding from European funds. I've also registered this information in the media, so I'm not surprised it could have caused concern about how it would work. So I would also like to offer that, as I say it verbally, I will describe it in more detail in writing. As far as practical elementary schools are concerned, they are either primary schools, then, of course, those templates apply to them as they are published, or they are or will become special schools from 1 September and in such a case they will use European money through a call that will be published during the holidays and which concerns special schools. And special schools differ from the point of view of support from the point of view of European funds only by not having templates, but by asking for a number of them, because they are few, for project financing. However, through these projects, the expansion of school psychologists and special educators will be supported in special schools as well as in mainstream schools. This means, in national and European money and in the policy of the Ministry of Education, we respect the equality of funds towards mainstream and special schools, towards the child, taking into account its needs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u163	Thank you. The honourable Member has an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u164	I have a very brief follow-up question: what will happen after the influx of European money is gone?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u165	European money, as I have described, actually serves us as an extension. Developing a support system within our schools, wherever it is, in the case of special education or mainstream education. The basis, as I have defined, is guaranteed from national sources, and in terms of systemic and sustainability in the future, this has to do with changes in regional education funding, which have already been submitted to the Chamber of Deputies. Through these changes, schools will be able to deal with the definition of both pedagogical workers and non-teaching workers from the full school year 2018/2019 so that they have full funding from the state's normative funding. This means that only changes in funding will systemically link the child, special needs and money from the point of view of national resources from that year 2019 to the future. And because the programming period ends in 2022, so there is overlap and we can stabilize the system so that it does not harm children or harm the collective within schools.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u166	Thank you, Minister. Mr Jan zahradník will interpel in the 18th interpellation of the Minister for Regional Development Karla Šlechtová concerning the construction law. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u167	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, yesterday at the House plenary, a law amending the Environmental Impact Assessment Act was discussed. In the course of the discussion, it has been said several times that it is necessary and desirable for a new law to be prepared for the approval of buildings, a new building law, perhaps a law on integrated building proceedings, we can call it. We expect him in this form. We assume that this law would bring simplicity, clarity and, last but not least, the predictability of the preparation process, whether for investors, the participants themselves, but also for the public concerned. I ask you a question, Madam Secretary, at what stage is the preparation of the new zoning and construction proceedings law now. And I also want to ask whether your ministry, which is the Guarantee Ministry of Law preparation, is also considering opening other laws, such as the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, which would somehow moderate, has modified the almost unlimited influence of environmental activists who can now enter into the building preparation process and, in essence, at any time, block the preparation of a building that they do not like for some reason. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u168	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u169	Mr President, Mr President, thank you for your question. Problematics of joint management, respectively. Single coordinated management is now included in the draft amendment to Act No. 183/2006 on zoning and construction regulations, construction law, as amended. The aim is to simplify the process and speed up construction by allowing builders to use the institute of joint management to implement the construction plan, i.e. the connection of the territorial and construction proceedings into one procedure, with the issue of one joint permit, both for the individual construction and for the set of buildings, which was very discussed during last year in the preparation of this amendment, and also for selected constructions special and other. A similar principle is proposed for integrating environmental impact assessment into either territorial management or joint management. This means that in practice this will mean that the environmental impact assessment will no longer be carried out separately before the proceedings at the construction office, but will be carried out in interaction between the construction office with the EIA body in the context of the first procedure in the framework of the single coordinated procedure. This is the goal of the whole amendment that the Ministry of Regional Development has prepared. Coincidentally, today and at this very moment since 14.30, the Legislative Council of the Government is underway on this amendment. This is the second time since this law is very complex and carries with it over 35 amending laws, where one of them is the EIA law. There are other laws, for example. even the upper law, the spa law. And of course, it was very difficult to communicate changes in these amendment laws against the building law. I would like to mention here - because you mentioned the new law in your question, through Mr President. I would like to inform the Chamber of Deputies here that, given that the amendment we are now processing is precisely for the purpose of joining the EIA, territorial proceedings and building permits, which will simplify, from transparent proceedings and shorten the period of issuing the building procedure, but it does not solve all the problems of the construction system in the Czech Republic, and due to many shortcomings I have decided that the Ministry of Regional Development has been working on a completely new, completely new construction law for two months, i.e. the recodification of the existing zoning and construction proceedings law. I would also like to inform the Member, through Mr President, that one of the things that we will propose in the context of the recodification will be for example. and the abolition of the smallest building offices, because we will proceed so that construction officials have of course quality education, training etc. And one of the objectives that I would like to discuss within all the departments of our government is also the transfer of building officials to the Ministry of Regional Development as a transferred jurisdiction of the State, because there is a conflict of interests between individual construction officials, if they are also employed at the town hall, who is an investor. So the amendment will bring the objective - unified coordinated management, joint management, EIA merger, territorial management and building permit. Furthermore, we are working on a new law, where I am happy to include, of course, Members if they are interested in preparing the whole new system of building proceedings in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u170	Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, please, your follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u171	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. First of all, for the first part, when you mentioned the actual need to change some things quickly, but also for the information that was just a mere consideration of my question, whether you are preparing a new law, which is what I find satisfying. And you also indirectly answered my supplementary question, whether you plan to invite the opposition to the process of preparing the law, which you said you did. So, of course, I can say for myself that I would like to, although my expertise is not quite constructional, so at least with some of my colleagues I could consult it, participate in the process. Well, thank you again, and I hope we can do all this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u172	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Thank you, Minister. Mr Pavel Šrámek will intersect the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka on the issue of the agrarian crisis by failing to deliver a government statement. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister of Agriculture, in the Government Declaration, paragraph 3.9. 1 writes: The government will create conditions for increasing the self-sufficiency of the Czech Republic in basic agricultural commodities, through such setting of conditions under the reformed common agricultural policy and rural programme, which will lead to the development of structurally balanced agriculture - I repeat, structurally balanced agriculture - and food industry in the Czech Republic. The government will increase the competitiveness of Czech agriculture and food industry. It will strengthen and support, in particular, the area of livestock production. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction according to Article 36 (1) point (a) of CRR. 5 says: The government will defend the equalisation of the position of Czech farmers and food professionals within the European Union and will ensure continuity of national support and re-introduce of green oil - I repeat, re-establishing green diesel - also for animal production. The real situation has not improved after two and a half years, but is dramatically worsening every day. The conditions of Czech farmers are diametrically different from the surrounding countries. Cattle farmers are wondering whether to dispose of herds now or in a few months. Is that the way to structurally balanced agriculture? That's the livestock support? My question is: what are you going to do to fulfill the government's declaration and coalition contract, and what are you going to do to stop the liquidation of Czech breeding at least? Or am I going to make myself more clear - when do you go from words to actions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u174	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u175	Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr President, dear colleagues. Dear Member, about that part of the coalition contract you quoted. I must clearly reject your claim that I am not fulfilling this coalition agreement. I think the Department of Agriculture is one of the resorts, which, of the vast majority, carries out a coalition agreement. For example, you quoted here the reintroduce of green diesel for animal production. I would like to point out that green oil was never for animal production. Because we're talking about some completely different parts. [[17.40 hours]] We have re-established green diesel for plant production, which has happened, and you know very well, and you should interpel your finance minister, why green oil for animal production has not already been included in the Chamber of Deputies meeting. The government approved it, if I'm not mistaken, at the beginning of April of this year. So here I refuse to take responsibility for this, even if I try to do so. My chairman of my club at the Gremia meeting tried to get this item to be included as soon as possible, because it is an absolutely important priority. As far as aid is concerned, I can prove on the statistical data for receipt of applications for 2016 and 2015 that self-sufficiency is succeeding, and it thrives in sectors of sensitive commodities as well as in animal production, although there is such a crisis as it is, so cattle stocks are increasing, although I do not enjoy a slight decline in dairy cows, but overall milk production has increased year-on-year and in this crisis situation. Just please, nicely for correctness, if we disregard the common agricultural policy set up for sensitive commodities, that is, fruit, vegetables, potatoes, diabetes, hops and livestock, where the payments for dairy cows and cows are in meat production, where the payment is conditional on a born calf, where the amounts are significant, where the aid is paid through protein crops, where the burden requirement is required by the livestock unit, where new measures for welfare have been added for 750 miles. CZK, which will be paid to farmers by the end of August of this year, where we have given the condition to the minimum livestock unit in the case of payments under the LFA to 0,3 LU, and will increase after 2018 to 0.35. I reject the claim that the Ministry of Agriculture does not work in favour of livestock production. I would just like to mention year-on-year what we are doing for the crisis situation that is now in agriculture. It was paid to sows and dairy cows during April 607 miles. Kč. Half of it was from the European budget, half of it from the Ministry of Agriculture's budget. Two new grant titles focused on quality and on welfare in dairy cows were prepared - in total 850 miles. Kč. They are administered, applications are accepted. By the end of this year, this money will be paid to farmers for their accounts. We have in administration compensation for damage caused by drought in the last year, where 90 per cent of the applications are now based on the first results of the application for compensation for crops which are feed, which are subject to animal production intensity, i.e. concentration and load of livestock units. There's at least 600 miles there. Crowns. We already know today, and on Monday I'll know even more precisely that this amount has been exceeded, and I promised I'd do my best to satisfy all the applicants. And then we have a mention of green oil, which I would like to propose on Thursday at the Coalition Council, so that this green oil and its return will be increased to 90 percent, which will allow the amount that will remain with farmers for this year's crisis year to be about 900 miles. Crowns, slightly over. If I just add up the things I was talking about from national sources, Mr. Ambassador, it's an extra 2,9 billion year on year. CZK for animal production. That's not the end of it. Our activities are also committed to helping within the EU. The meeting, which was now on Tuesday and Wednesday, the European Council meeting, so the Czech Republic may have included a point for the Czech Republic for the first time, and it was a crisis situation in agriculture, where we were the only state to raise this issue, all the other countries have supported us when we asked for a revision of the crisis package last year at a minimum of 0.5 billion. EUR and we expect that this aid should still be paid to farmers this year. So I say in the long run, and I stand by it that dairy farmers and pigs, even at this difficult time, those who have at least an average cost of 8.28 per litre, will not end at the end of this year in red figures. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u176	Thank you, Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u177	Thank you for the floor. That last sentence really made me laugh. In the red figures, animal production will end this year, I guarantee you that, Minister! About the support. I didn't say you weren't working. I was just quoting that competitiveness and self-sufficiency are getting worse, and that's what I'm gonna prove to you -- you said the support was 607 miles. and 870 miles. Milk cattle farmers today are losing 7 billion. It's estimated that this year they're going to be down about 11 billion. All I'm saying is that the support that I have here, if I'm adding it right, is 1.5 billion. versus 11 billion, it's really cosmetic! As far as Welfar is concerned. Welfare was set up so that it was intended and only for new breeding, which means actually new goods that have been built over the last few years, but for older and mainly small farmers, no one can reach it. About the drought. For example, Polish farmers were to be compensated for drought last October, November. We haven't gotten a penny for the drought. I know there's a package ready now, it's already being processed. Maybe you'll be checking my de minimis here, but the situation is that we'll get the money about a year longer than the Polish farmers. Well, that's the competitiveness again. That's all on my side. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u178	Time! Please, Minister, your follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u179	I, honourable Member, am very happy to give you a visit to several farms of people I know who have old stables, who are also small farmers and who have fulfilled the welfare conditions. I've got a case right in the family. My brother is the manager of the company, my stables, which are quite long old, have not been reconstructed in at least the last five years, and he has been able to meet the conditions of Welfar even with the technologies and construction modifications they have there, some had to do. And it was that from the beginning, we said that the welfare wasn't, that you would get the money and do nothing. You have to do something for the welfare to get. So I reject this claim, and if I'm not mistaken, most breeders have applied and satisfied the welfare conditions. I'll say so much to compare with Poland and drought. To pay 400 thousand euros, i.e. CZK 405 thousand in de minimis terms - let's say how many companies would really help solve their situation. You argued that the loss is 11 billion. I'd like to say we're gonna eat 2,9 billion. liters of milk per year. Today, when the average cost is 8.28, in the last month the average sales price is 6.15 crowns, it doesn't go to 11 billion. I guess one of us was worse at math. When I look at the fact that today, as part of the common agricultural policy, we are clearly subsidising the koruna for all the measures that are in the CAP, with the 3 billion that I am coming with now, plus I expect an EU package, I stand by the fact that the average farmer and the one above the average will be in black numbers. Whoever makes a quart of milk for nine kroner, I'm telling you, I can't help it. He needs to think about why he's doing it with that kind of power. So maybe so much for your comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u180	Thank you, Minister. Mr Miloslav Janulík will intersect Minister Milan Chovanec in the matter of the meeting of the Security Committee. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Ministers, Mr. Absent Minister, I would have followed up my interview at the meeting of the last meeting of the Security Committee. Just marginally, the discussions that were going on around the convocation as it was, or wasn't, if it was against habit. I would just like to refresh the memory that we experienced two years ago at an exit meeting in Ostrava far away, I would say less conformal call of the committee during a walk in the hallway. It was the appeal of the then warden of the prison service Dohnal, so it was because of the staff of one person, such a non-standard summoning of the committee, and at the time it did not bother anyone. It's just for refreshment. And I want to ask. I think I read in the media on Wednesday before the committee was convened that you would attend the committee meeting, and then I didn't see you there. If you would answer me why I didn't see you there, why you didn't attend the committee's meeting, when according to my information, you were even in the building. And then, of course, if you could tell me the reasons, allegedly, if that's true, those invited colonels were deprived of silence, so if that's true, if you really got rid of the secrecy, or who could get rid of the silence, if that's based on the truth. [[17.50 hours]] And then I'd like you to comment on why your colleagues didn't vote for those officers to come forward and tell me what they had to say. This actually caused a confusing situation, which today is because the committee could have listened to it calmly. I think we've been pushed a little further today, and we didn't have to create any committees here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u182	Thank you. The Member shall be answered in writing. And we'll probably move on to the last interpellation today. Mrs Pavla Golasowská will interpel Mrs Michaela Marksová on financial support for social work and refugees. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u183	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, I am interrogating you on financial support for social work with refugees, asylum seekers. This year, our Republic has adopted several dozen Christian refugees from Iraq. Part of them stayed with us and got asylum in our Republic. Since the integration process is very demanding due to the language barrier and the diversity of the cultural environment of both the education system and the labour market, both in time and in terms of social work, it should also be systematically grasped by the MPSV. It is known that the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports has responded to the situation with refugees by allocating funds to support the integration of children into schools. The Ministry of the Interior only manages the financing of integration activities until asylum is granted and in the framework of the state integration programme for a maximum period of one year. Subsequently, asylum seekers find themselves without specific systemic support. Madam Secretary, is the Ministry aware of the need for social work with this group? And if so, is the Ministry willing to release funds for social work that will lead to the integration of these people into society? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u184	Please, Madam Secretary. The best in the end.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u185	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Members of Parliament, nowadays, regardless of any migration crisis on the basis of the Social Services Act, of course, the people who already have asylum status are in some category of people who need help. In this way - as far as the Social Services Act is concerned, of course we provide services to all those in need. With regard to aid from the Labour Office concerning active employment policy, migrants are in one of the several categories that need special assistance. If they ask for it, of course. But actually, at this point, we don't have any extra expenses, given that it's basically not here, or that the number of people in this category hasn't increased to ask for help from us. But we're ready. Of course, we have mechanisms for the labour market. Now, to support the labour market, we will put in place, or we want to identify one person on each side of the labour office who would be particularly in charge of this agenda. But it's more in the future to be prepared, because, as I say, at this point in time, we haven't actually increased the number of refugees who need this help. And otherwise, as you said yourself, when these people need language support, it is primarily addressed in the Ministry of the Interior's agenda. But, of course, the Department of Labour is ready, but so far, it's preemptive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u186	The Member does not have an additional question. We're gonna get another interview. Mr Josef Zahradníček will intersect the absent Minister Dan Ťok on the construction of technical infrastructure. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u187	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, I wish you a pleasant and good afternoon. Dear absent Minister, on 31 December 2015, the new Act No. 268/2015 Coll., amending Act No. 13/1997 Coll., on the Road. The existing version of the law allowed cases where the possibility of another technical solution was excluded to separate the engineering networks into road land, i.e. road, even in the transit section of the road. This is addressed in Section 36 para. 4 of Law No. 13/1997 Coll. Annex V.Part 2.41 (d) However, 4 has been amended in the sense that it is possible to place the management of technical infrastructure in a pawned and built-up area of the municipality in local roads. This paragraph is no longer mentioned about roads. The newly longitudinal location of the civil engineering networks into the road parcel of the transit section of the roads is therefore not possible. The Act does not explicitly specify this possibility as stated by the Law until December 2015. With this amendment, it has been for almost six months that all investors have been prevented from implementing their construction projects, in which the longitudinal imposition of networks in the roads of the first, second and third classes is the only possible technical solution in a built-in and stopable territory. I hope you know that. That is why I am asking you, Minister: Are the steps already being taken to remedy the situation described, and what is that? And in what time horizon is the axle supposed to be and since when should it apply? Where appropriate, is it possible to give regional authorities, for a transitional period before the law is regulated, such powers that they could decide separately whether the longitudinal imposition of the network on their roads is possible in specific cases? I thank the Members for their attention and for your written reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u188	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. That was the last of the interpelations. I'll read some more apologies. Mr Karel Rais apologizes today from 17.20 to 20 hours, Mrs Berdychová apologises from 14.30 to the end of the day for personal reasons. Our negotiations will continue at 18 o'clock - Information from the Prime Minister on the situation in the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-004-220.u189	Madam, honourable Members, Members of the Government, we will continue our adjourned negotiations, and this is a point that we have firmly placed.
