ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u1	2. The draft law amending Act No. 115/2001 Coll., on the promotion of sport, as amended, and other related laws /German press 590/5/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. His resolution was delivered as House Press 590/6. I welcome Senator Václav Homolka among us. The senator is probably not present, so I welcome him in vain. However, I ask the appellants to comment on the resolution of the Senate and on the amendments tabled by the appellant, the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, Kateřina Valachová. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, allow me to ask you to support the amendment to the Sport Support Act, which returns from the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, with the Senate proposing that municipalities be relieved of their obligation to develop a sport support plan. I would like to emphasise once again that these plans to promote sport should not be bureaucratised by the municipalities, but it should be a simple instrument for describing what their citizens consider important in terms of promoting sport. And then this information is intended to serve the regions as well as the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, to help municipalities develop the sport of children and youth in setting criteria for grant schemes in terms of investment. That is why I believe that, on the contrary, supporting the Senate version would be in favour of the municipalities. I would also like to say that, in particular, with small municipalities, these plans were also discussed through the National Sports Council and were supported by the Association of Local Authorities. Thank you for your attention and once again I recommend and ask to support the version previously approved by the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u3	Thank you, Minister. Does the rapporteur for the Guarantee Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Body Member Jiří Holeček want to comment on the amendments tabled by the Senate? He does. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to thank the Senate for dealing with this House's press, the Government's proposal, for proposing an amendment which was approved at its meeting, but which is that municipalities should not be ordered by the Senate to draw up plans for the development of sport in their territory. I cannot agree with that as the guarantor of this House press. I think that municipalities, even the smallest ones, should present their sport development plan especially because recently the state has been contributing to the development of sport to small investment funds. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u5	Thank you, honourable Member. I am opening a debate in which Senator Václav Homolka will be the first to speak. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u6	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I've finally run, it's a sports performance, so excuse my sweaty forehead. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, allow me, if possible, to give a brief explanation of the Senate resolution number 428 on the bill amending Act number 115/2001 Coll. on the promotion of sport. The bill was delivered to the Senate on 2 May 2016 and was awarded a print number of 265.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u7	Well, I'm sorry, Senator, but I'm not gonna let you do this until it's quiet. I'll start naming specific jammers and throwing them out of the O.R., if possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u8	Thank you. The Organizing Committee ordered the press on May 3 to discuss the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Human Rights and Petitions as a Committee on Guarantee. The press also discussed the Committee on Territorial Development, Public Administration and the Environment and the Constitutional Committee. In their resolutions, the Guarantee Committee and the Constitutional Committee recommended that the Senate return the bill as referred to by the Chamber of Deputies, as the previous speakers spoke. The Committee on Territorial Development, Public Administration and the Environment adopted a resolution recommending the Senate to return the bill to the Chamber of Deputies with amendments by resolution 119 of 18 May. The Senate discussed the bill at its 24th meeting on 25 May and the outcome of that meeting was the adoption of the amendments contained in the resolutions of the committee responsible. In voting number nine, 60 of the 66 Senators and Senators present voted in favour of returning the bill to the Chamber of Deputies with these amendments, and there was no one against it. Amendments 1, 2 and 4 contained in the Senate resolution release from the amendment the new obligation of municipalities to process so-called. a plan for the development of sport. In the final report on the assessment of the impact of regulation, the reference to the provisions of Section 2 (2) is given in the context of this obligation. Act No. 128/2000 Coll., on municipalities, where the obligation of municipalities to take care of the universal development of their territory and the needs of their citizens is enshrined in the report, among which the obligation to take care of sports activities is also included. It is very debatable whether the obligation to develop a sport development plan in the municipality is such a crucial step to achieve this objective and whether it would not, in particular, constitute an unnecessary administrative burden in the form of formal reporting for smaller municipalities. It is certainly worth noting that municipalities and cities already participate mostly in the promotion of sport within the state and public sectors - an average amount of 11.5 billion a year. The promotion of sport depends on the needs of the municipalities and the possibilities of their budget. It is clear that the municipalities are already fulfilling this obligation and, in particular, the smaller ones do not have enough resources to invest more than tens or hundreds of thousands of crowns a year in this area. It is then a question of whether the obligation to develop a sport development plan is meaningful in these cases. Nor can it be forgotten that, for example, in accordance with the provisions of § 7 para. 1 of Law No. 128/2000 Coll., on municipalities, belongs to meeting the needs of citizens, i.e. also the development of sport, traditionally within the separate remit of municipalities. According to this law and pursuant to Article 101 (1) of the Treaty, 4 The Constitution of the Czech Republic may intervene in the activities of local authorities only if it requires the protection of the law and only in the manner laid down by law. According to the Constitutional Court's ruling of 7 May 2013 No III ÚS1669/11-1, such an intervention in self-government is permissible only if the protection of the law undoubtedly requires it. Respect for territorial self-government is a necessary part of the rule of law and intervention in this self-government should therefore be minimal only in the cases strictly necessary. The Senate therefore considers that this is not necessary in this case. And maybe the D.O.D. didn't judge that either. Amendment 3 should then allow, in addition to sports organisations, to be explicitly beneficiaries of aid for sport from the State budget pursuant to § 6b para. 1 also municipalities and regions. Cities and municipalities took over their property especially from sports clubs a number of properties. Many of them would need the necessary repairs. The cities and municipalities currently do not have sufficient funds from their own resources for these repairs, therefore the sports grounds are being repaired gradually and to a lesser extent than would be needed. [[15.40 hours]] On the one hand, the law stresses the responsibility of municipalities and regions for the development of the possibility of sports activities, for the sport of young people in their territory, on the other hand, only a non-profit-making legal person who, according to the explanatory memorandum, appears in the definition of a sports organisation could receive the subsidy under that provision. The amendment should therefore allow municipalities and regions to be the beneficiary of the subsidies, where appropriate. In this context, it should also be noted that one of the important sources for financing the sport area has always been the proceeds of lotteries and other similar games, which are generated to a large extent also in relation to sport. Since revenues from lotteries and winning instruments have been reduced from the original 80:20 ratio to the 63:37 ratio, it is desirable that new opportunities be opened for municipalities to finance sport development. honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, so much to justify the amendments for the Senate. I may have been sweating more than some sports competition, but thank you for the refreshments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u9	I thank the senator. The first to be entered in the general debate by the Senator is Mr Andrle. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the government decided on a new concept for financing sport. Expenditure on sport by the state, municipalities and regions will increase from the current 3.7 billion. 6 billion. up to 2020. In other words, from the current 0,3 percent of the state budget, the sport will last about 1% by 2020. In addition, all revenues from lotteries and gambling will be directed to sports. The Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Education, like the rest of us, believe in the involvement of much more children and young people as well as from socially weak families in sporting activities. We hope that this will improve their physical and mental condition. The Senate returned the present law with an indication that there is no need to plan sports activity in the municipalities, that it is unnecessary bureaucracy for the municipalities. I don't share that opinion. Hand in hand with increasing the sport budget must go to the concept of sport development and planning, at the level of municipalities, cities and regions, both because of the use of material technical equipment and to set priorities for sports and, first, for rational use of funds. Therefore, in Article 1, in paragraph 19 above, I proposed that regional and municipal authorities should be obliged to develop plans for the development of sport, including the identification of funds from the municipality and the region which are necessary to implement this plan. Most cities have a youth and sport commission. These commissions are designed to develop sport and physical education in their city. My amendment is an motivating element for the functioning of the Commissions, many of which are processing such plans today. There are many small villages in whose territory there is only a choir of voluntary firefighters and sport in such territorial units is essentially not addressed in any way. This amendment will result in a solution. If you identify with the Senate's view that the sport development plan is useless for most cities and municipalities, we will remain at a deadlock with our efforts to promote the health and sporting activities of children and young people, despite the increase in funds. Therefore, please vote for the version of the law as it came from the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u11	I thank the honourable Member. Another duly registered member is Mr Simeon Karamazov. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, the changes proposed by the Senate are reasonable and I see no reason not to approve them. In particular, I welcome the abolition of the obligation for each municipality to process the sport development plan on its territory. After all, out of more than 6,000 municipalities in the Czech Republic, half of them have fewer than 500 inhabitants. We really cannot ask them to set priorities in individual areas of sport. In small villages, there are often only a few sports, often only football. The obligation to draw up a sport development plan is certainly not to force citizens to play sports, but to piss off one or two officials who will create a non-speaking document. They will then boast about their experience at the annual meeting of the football club and we will be reprehensible for creating unnecessary legislation. It is to add that quite rightly. Therefore, let the communities live their lives and do not command them new, senseless responsibilities. They already have more than enough. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u13	Thank you, honourable Member. Another duly registered member is Mr Petr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u14	Thank you for the floor. Good day, colleagues, colleagues. I am one of those who think that we do not need a new law on such a general matter, that it is enough, if we create financial conditions in the state budget or in the budgets of cities, municipalities and regions, we will introduce some of the principles that the Senator here has mentioned. In the past, municipalities from the logic of gambling had some income ratio to their own budgets. As a government majority, you have changed that by believing that the state will better redistribute funds and better support local sports activities than cities and municipalities do. The Minister has told us here, she has introduced us to the opinion of the Association of Local Authorities, which she claimed supports, so I would like to ask if she also has the position of the Union of Towns and Communities, which not only represents small but also central and large cities and municipalities. I belonged to those who today, in accordance with the Senate's opinion, said that, for example, those sports plans remind us of the five years of the past, as we planned something, and then we fulfilled it at the best of 103 percent or 130 percent, those communities had posted it on their billboards in the past and reported how we had fulfilled the five years' plans. I do not consider this a wise decision, and I think the Senate is going in a good direction in this regard. It is obvious that there are people who have already experienced something in the municipal benches and do not need further bureaucracy and culling on the municipalities and cities the obligation to write so-called plans for sport development. The communities of things they need. They often adapt to the situation. When a sponsor is found, they are able to respond to it because they are moving in a limited amount of funds, and they do not need to have everything written down to change the next day, that although today we were planning to change the fact that we will fix the toilets on the playground, but because they found a sponsor that will contribute to the windows or the roof in which it flows, so at that moment somehow the concept of promoting sport in creating backgrounds is changed and I do not need to have it written, virtually. I would have to amend my sport development plan and send it to the Ministry that it has been different since last week, and so on. In this respect, I think the senators are right. I would support the proposal as such, just as we supported - and I believe the senators would support it - in the past, so that the revenues from lottery activities in favour of the city's and community's budget are greater to support sports activities. Unfortunately, as a government majority, you rejected this proposal and reduced the percentage of funds that go into the budget of cities and municipalities at the expense of the state, because, as I said, you think the state will better know what development cities and municipalities in the area of sport the city and municipalities need. [[15.50 hours]] But what still bothers me about this government proposal is the record that we've had here for a long time, which I also consider redundant. It serves only for statistics and we do not need it or cities and municipalities do not need it for life. If the Ministry of Education wants to have some data, it can create a questionnaire in a simple way. I believe that cities and municipalities will be so correct and serious that the questionnaire so that the Ministry of Education can get an idea of what is actually a priority at the moment to fill it in will be sent to you. You can make the statistics clear and reflect these priorities in the possible creation of various aids that arise at national or regional level. I think that would be absolutely enough. We don't need a law on sports for that. And believe me, in time it turns out that it's only a matter of what the Ministry of Education is lobbying, and that the vast majority of them will not see the money in the end.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u15	I thank Mr Bendl. The last duly applied for so far is Mrs Anna Putnová, followed by Mr Herbert Pavera. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u16	Good afternoon, Mr President, Madam Secretary, Mr Senator, ladies and gentlemen. The Senate dealt with the draft amendment to the Sports Support Act and indeed managed to remove one of the very critical passages through the amendment. I believe that this has reduced the bureaucracy that we have so criticised in the first and second reading of this amendment. Unfortunately, there are other disputes that have been the subject of a big debate, whatever that register is, and I think that if we were to evaluate the amendment, we should also talk about what is not there. However much more ambitious the coalition treaty had in terms of promoting sport, whether it is the preparation of a brand new law on promoting sport or the setting of clear criteria for the distribution of funds, this amendment does not include. So when we talk about increasing the sports budget, it is undoubtedly good news on the one hand, on the other hand, we have to ask what the criteria will be. Whether we stay with the same negotiating tactics that were so often criticized in the past period. To sum it up. I thank the Senator that they dealt with the novel, improved this novel, but did not improve it enough to support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u17	Thank you, ma'am. Another duly registered member is Mr Herbert Pavera. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u18	Nice and pleasant afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, fellow Members of the government, Mr President. Let me also respond and thank the senators, of course, for coming up with the idea of excluding municipalities from the obligation to create plans for sport and sport development. I think there are more senators in the Senate who have experience in the administration. That is why they know that such nonsense or things can only be done by a person who has absolutely no experience in managing self-government, or who does not know how I function. I'm really sorry, because we're like enlightened heads here that we know everything that we're best suited to those mayors, mayors, and deputies, how they're supposed to do it, different plans will be made. And as colleagues have said, the plans will lie in the closet for five years, ten years, twenty years, thirty years, and they won't be dealt with anyway, because there won't be any money. I say it all the time, and I will remind you again, if the budgetary determination of taxes for municipalities and cities, municipalities and cities themselves creates sports grounds, creating cultural spaces so that they can develop quality of life in their municipalities and cities. I would also like to respond to Mr Andrle, a colleague who said that in some municipalities there are only firemen. Look out! Today firefighter sport is one of the most developing sports ever and is actually one of the most sports that occupy young people. For example, we have a number of teams of children, adults, women, girls who compete in firefighters' sport, and today there is also an Olympics in firefighters' sport. Even in Bolatice, we have an academic master in this firefighter sport. The secretary here told us about the development plan that the Association of Local Authorities agreed to do so. Of course, the mayors of the small municipalities you tell 'if you have a sport development plan, you're entitled to receive subsidies', so of course they'll approve it and confirm exactly what you want. But it won't do any good. Each self-government is so well-read that it knows how much money it can put on the sport, and it will give enough money if it has the money. But we always come up with something that doesn't make any sense at all, and then it goes that way with those laws that really can't be used at all. I'm sorry, because the idea of promoting sport is nice, and I think that all the fellow representatives who are here, even the mayors, will certainly be right about the fact that the municipal budget gives a lot of money for these things, as well as for culture. And ordering from the state what the community is supposed to do is really the fashion of this coalition lately. And keep doing that. And instead of the mayors, you can put some officials in charge of the community, because we'll actually be representatives when you do everything to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u19	Thank you, honourable Member. With a factual remark, Mr Ivo Pojezný. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to respond briefly to my previous speakers for one very important reason. After all, if the Ministry of Education has responsibilities, for example, in drawing up a proposal for a state policy plan in the field of sport, there is a kind of obligation transferred to the region, it is quite logical that municipalities will also have that obligation. Mainly because, for example, there should be measures in this plan to ensure the availability of sports facilities. So I strongly support the parliamentary version, not the senate one. And another thing I want to say is that it is true that there are fewer funds coming from lotteries to municipalities, but it comes from the other side, for example because of the register, I have the impression that it is Section 3a, by making direct subsidies from the Ministry to individual clubs. So I am glad that MEPs for the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia will support the draft parliamentary version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u21	Thank you, honourable Member. Two more factual points. First of all, Mr Michal Kučera, Mr Andrle, followed with priority by Mr Stanjura. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u22	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Only briefly to his foreman. I think that there is a fundamental difference between the state administration and who the Ministry of Education and Self-government can be tasked with. Personally, I think, and I am certainly not alone, I think that most municipal representatives, mayors, councillors will tell me that the strengthening of self-government is the right step, because the community really knows what it can finance, what it should support and how it should continue to issue. I would very much like to support the words of my previous speaker, Mr Herbert Pavera, Mayor of Bolatic, who has made a clear statement in this regard. Unfortunately, here we are, and that's not just this case, we're going the opposite trend. This money is directed towards ministries rather than municipalities and rather to self-governments. Rather, we are heading into some grant titles on which an official will sit, deciding whether or not the grant title has been completed, will sit another official in the village, who will try to make sure that the grant title contains the number of pages in question, there are exactly signatures, titles and quotes based on how the grant title was issued, instead of giving the money to the municipalities that would decide and effectively decide how to deal with them. So, Minister Valachová brings us, as her colleagues in the government, more bureaucracy and less self-governing decisions in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u23	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr. Andrle. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u24	I would like to respond to Mr Pavera through Mr President. I have always promoted fire sports, I have participated in these races and competitions several times, and I support it now. So don't put something in my mouth that I never said and what I don't do or do. There will be no bureaucracy at all by creating plans for the development of sport in municipalities and cities. Because there are youth committees and sports involved. And there's no prognosis or plan for five years, but it would only be done for a year. It is not binding and would be based on the conditions in the village or city. Because I've been working three times as a representative, and I've dealt with this, believe me, I'm speaking from practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u25	Thank you, honourable Member. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u26	Thank you. The fact that socialists believe in regulation is a well-known fact. It's not surprising that the Communists support them even more from the left. But then there are members of a government coalition who privately claim to be right-wing, middle-right, and somehow forget to fight those regulations. And if so many speakers here, or previous speakers have told me and praised the Senate, as he threw it out, he must say at the same time - that was not the proposal of Juncker and the European Commission. That was your suggestion! Which one of you voted in favour of this, the House version? Many of you have also charged the smallest municipalities with creating a senseless plan for the development and promotion of sport, for the Minister's applause. I don't know how much experience the Secretary of State has in municipal policy, but I would quite recommend it to do what it's for. [[unintelligible]] Perhaps it is simple: if each minister asks his office how many different strategies, concepts and similar important materials have been produced in the last ten years. And I say ten years, because that's what many parties have done, except maybe communists, all parties that are in the Chamber of Deputies. Not to be targeted as an attack on this government. These are incredible numbers and the incredible number of human hours they've been working on. I have experience from the Department of Transport. And I don't think we're the worst. And that's where we keep the concepts! And strategy. And each one was important. And then every one of them is checked and typed. It's always like that. So the Senate version is better than the House, but the law and the Senate amendment are really not good. We may agree that municipalities may not have to write senseless plans and concepts, but there will still be that beloved register of everything possible so that officials at the Ministry of Education can do what they can do to keep it up to date, supplement or question. Again there will be grant titles, once again they will win color printers, better graphs, best pie. It is best to write a comment as the government does well and that the community is fully supported. And that's how it's gonna be. And what's that? Instead of encouraging parents to lead children to sport, we believe in regulations, regulations, registers, etc. I don't believe in any of this, but I know it's the secretary's ideal world. She's always upset when I say she's a socialist, like she's ashamed of it. I don't know, I'm not ashamed of being a conservative politician. We're getting blamed by colleagues on the left side of the political spectrum for something else. You don't have to be ashamed of it. Just keep the regulations somewhere else. I don't know, it seems to me, luckily in a small way, that this government is doing exactly what the so critical European Commission is doing. He deals with details, he deals with bureaucracy, he believes in bureaucratic solutions, and he doesn't notice that those who are supposed to work with it aren't actually able to deal with it. That it's completely unnecessary. And in this case, Brusel is not really to blame. If the Senate recognizes that the House version was not good, it's the government's, the majority. I don't know, maybe some other clubs have voted to keep me from being unfair. We certainly didn't support the law for many reasons. And whether it goes through the Senate or the House version, with the actual support of sport, this law will do nothing. We can tell each other in a year or two or three. And we can figure out if we're going to have 6 245 concepts - I'm wondering who's going to read it, the 6 245 concepts, and who's going to compare it, especially when the grant applications are, if the municipality has a better or worse plan for the development of the community. It's like we don't know that each of them has different starting positions. Someone's already got the sports area, somebody's in good shape, somebody's in bad shape, somebody's not got the sports area at all. But if we suggest...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u27	I'm so sorry. I will ask the Members to keep their voices down and transfer their calls to the machine guns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u28	If we propose to increase the share of municipalities and cities in tax revenues, the last Monday, Sobotkův's government will say no, no, no, no, no, we need the money. We're gonna tell you what your concept is, maybe we're gonna write you a donation, but we're not gonna give you the money. So if you want to support self-government and their efforts to promote sport, especially youth, whether organized or unorganized youth sport, support our proposals to increase the budgetary determination of taxes. That makes sense, and the authorities will handle it. It makes no sense to introduce new registers, new regulations, new bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u29	Thank you. Mr Petr Bendl, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u30	Thank you for the floor. It is obvious that the Minister does not want to debate this issue very much. However, I would like to ask. You can imagine, Madam Secretary, that you have 6,250 here, or how many we have here, cities and municipalities will send concepts - 6,248 or this number will come to you. Now you don't have a uniform form. So you start thinking that there's gonna be a need for some people to come up with a uniform form. You will find that the single form cannot be done for both large and small towns and cities, because everyone is different. We also need to divide the department into a department for big cities and small towns. Then you say yeah, but everyone's on it -- someone's got a winter stadium and someone's got an athletic stadium, we should split that too. So maybe we could hire two more people. Well, that's gonna be the result of this, like, three quarters of a year, maybe a year, you're gonna hire different people, and you're gonna figure out how to actually ask these communities, and in the meantime, you're gonna allocate some money because you're gonna want to tell the nation how much you want to support this sport. And the result is that only among these communities will they say, "Please, you're a Social Democrat, don't you have someone in that ministry?" Couldn't we just jump in there and fix the list so we can get it? Let's forget about the list. It doesn't really matter. If you know the way, we'll figure it out. Madam Secretary, you're already clear on the concept of how you're going to process this, the six thousand concepts, how you're going to judge them among yourselves, how you're going to come out of it, how many people you're going to have, where they're going to sit, and how long will it take you to figure out another concept based on these concepts, how do you deal with these concepts?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u31	Thank you, honourable Member. Another point of fact, Mr Andrle, after which Mr Adamec. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u32	I'm not surprised. The concept of the development of the sport of municipalities, towns and regions will serve none other than that of the town than that of the region. Nobody's gonna collect it, nobody's gonna judge it, nobody's gonna judge it. It'll be for the city, for the people, for the parents, for the kids, for the kids in that town. Because it can happen and some sports happen to have a greater priority, some of them will not get to it at all, so that's why the development, is based on the conditions that the city has. No concept will be sent anywhere. Nothing will be evaluated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u33	That was Mr. Andrle. Mr. Ivan Adamec now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I have been very brief. I don't understand why you're here ripping off the secretary, colleagues from my side. Sports support sounds beautiful, everyone gets it because it's popular, it's popular, and who doesn't promote sport is a criminal. But it's already given in that principle. It's a special law. It's a special law that redistributes money from state to community. And that's what we should criticize. Just don't take special laws. That's the whole problem. I always say and say it to a well-known conservative politician: So many reasons to have a lot of plans, but also so many reasons to have no plans. I mean, the government can handle it, and it's about the flow of money that's going to be collected in taxes and that's not going to flow through the Ministry of Education, but it's going to go straight to the municipalities. And that's the principle that we should enforce. Not a special law of redistribution through the Ministry, but directly to the municipalities. And let the council and the mayor handle it. It's what matters most to them, isn't it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u35	Thank you. So far, the final point of fact, Mr Herbert Pavera. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u36	I apologize for performing, but it was my colleague Andrle who encouraged me to do so. Because you probably don't know that the vast majority of municipalities and cities already have strategic development plans or rural development programmes, and that's all there is to it. So please don't make up what's already invented.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u37	So, Madam Secretary. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, let me respond to the debate. I'll start with what was said in the end. Yes, we know that larger or medium-sized communities already have their plans worked out by means of other strategic documents. The law also does not prescribe to the community to process something new, some new extradocument, i.e. Those communities that have it processed, they're done. That is why I also mentioned the Association of Local Authorities as who supports this plan. Here, please don't ridicule small towns that they're kind of stupid, and the secretary is a decoy for some kind of money, completely confused to agree. I don't think that's correct. As to whether or not there's any extra regulation. It's something else from my point of view. It is about cooperation between the state, the region and the municipalities so that we play one goal in case of promotion of sport. I would like to point out that both the state and the region and the municipality, it is probably unpleasant for the Union of Towns and Municipalities, it consists of people. I'm looking at the citizens. They are also citizens of the community, the region and the Czech Republic. And if you want some concrete example of how this concept is supposed to work, why it's important, it's precisely for predictability for those actors and for transparency. It is precisely so that it is not "me on my brother, brother on me" but that we can take into account that he has such a document and that he is fulfilling it in the case of subsidy programmes, if the municipality - I note here - in particular the investment - is going to apply. And if you support that municipalities will not have such considerations, they will act on their own, and they may not, against the interests of their citizens, and I do not know if it will benefit the municipalities to be only regions that will process such conceptual documents and may not take into account the interests of the municipalities within their region. It's about cooperation. You paint, dear colleagues, the devils on the wall. As regards the question whether the Union of Towns and Municipalities agreed with the amendment, both the Union and the Association agreed through the National Council for Sport and Discussion. Of course, I will not cover it up, in the Czech Republic everything will be said, I know that the Union of Cities was behind the initiation of the Senate amendment, I will not comment on that in any way, through the National Council where it is part of it. As far as the policy of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports towards municipalities is concerned, I would like to say that, in my work, the possibilities of municipalities have expanded to ask for State resources, as well as the results of the current investment programme confirm that the municipalities have been more successful in terms of state support than ever. Someone might not like that, but it's true. And if we are talking about the fact that we want the synergies of funds in the regions, municipalities and states, we also need to talk about some model of how we will share what each municipality, county or state needs. Finally, let me give you a concrete example that we have come across in the introduction of a new programme to promote children's and youth sports. The firefighter sport within the municipalities became the big beneficiary of these funds. Of course, the municipalities did not ask, requested associations that are established within these municipalities, but probably no one will doubt that the community ultimately benefits as a community of people, and no one will doubt that fire sport in the case of small municipalities is the only sport that is accessible to children. And I would like to say that if we had had the opportunity to communicate more before, the municipalities might have thought more about how they wanted to support this type of sport, so we could prevent them from having a very special situation, because they function entirely on the principle of volunteering, they do not need funding for coaches, and they need more to use 100% of the subsidy to support equipment and equipment and realize the sport. These are details that may seem ridiculous to some, but I believe that, in cooperation with municipalities, regions and states, this can be well tuned. And if anyone looks at the socialists and the ČSSD forebodingly, the rhetoric of the 19th century, they can. We don't regulate. We want to help and cooperate and we want to improve the conditions for sports throughout the territory. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u39	I thank the Minister. Another party to the debate is the President of the ODS. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u40	The political language is terrible. Really awful. Maybe I'm using it, too, so I'm sorry, but the phrases I hear here, that's incredible. We want to work together, which is why we're gonna give you an obligation to the law. Tell yourself what it sounds like. It sounds beautiful when you just say the first sentence. It is about the cooperation of municipalities, regions and us as a state. But since we're not sure, and God knows what you're doing in those villages, we'd better put our duty there. And once again, that belief from every sentence in those subsidies. And those who say the community wants it all to themselves, you don't listen to the secretary. And you should listen to her when she says, "When she gives the grant, we'll look at her development program, and she said it about four minutes ago, and if it's good and it's a great program, there's a better chance." You don't need a law to cooperate, you don't need a duty to cooperate. I live in a village that has about 1,800 inhabitants, and we really don't need the concept of sport development. We've had a good mayor, we've got a good mayor, they're both independent, they're doing it right, and a lot has been done for children and youth sports over the last 12 years. The only problem there is the budgetary determination of taxes and little money. And you, as a government, reject it. I'm not going to ask the secretary if she supported it or not in the government. Because you have the idea that a ministerial servant is smarter, and he chooses according to those programs who deserve it and who the mayor doesn't deserve it. Whereas if we add money to everyone, we'll leave it to the municipalities. And once every four years there are municipal elections, there are politicians making accounts, and if anyone comes up with a better sports promotion program in that community, they'll probably succeed. If someone had given it to their friends before, they would see it in the village, and they wouldn't vote for it or choose someone else. Otherwise, it will work just as much as it does today, because it's very complicated, there's a lot of sports to support. The only thing that's gonna change is that it's written in the concept. [[16.20 hours]] There will be new elections. A new political representation will come at the municipal level. And they say, "And we will no longer support volleyball for men, but we will support volleyball for women." That's a legitimate political decision by the council. But now they're going to have to make an amendment number one to the sport development and promotion plan, because I think the Minister and the officials quite proudly think they know better than the authorities. I'm not surprised, repeatedly, where the government is constantly suggesting that the municipalities can't do that. And small villages aren't stupid. The only thing they don't have is to have officials. And the more you give them official duties, then they have to buy it and they have little money left for self-governing self-governing. Then they can't support their sports teams in the municipalities with as much money as they can. Do you think in a village where there's no official or official at 0.2-time, it's going to be written by the mayor? Or does he order it somewhere to fulfill his legal obligation? B is correct. And that money for senseless concepts of sport development is at the expense of direct support for the villages. If anyone claims otherwise, he's never been to the municipal council, he's never read the budget of a small community, never looked at how much they actually have left to support sport itself. But it promises the Minister and the Socialist Government: if we do so, another grant title. But grant titles are inherently unfair! The budgetary determination of taxes is fair! The grant titles are unfair. But you love subsidies. And it's pretty simple. He who divides money has power. Thus the mayors go to those who decide and ask for the support of their project. And those projects are all the same. Only someone writes them better, someone writes them worse. It's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u41	Thank you, Prime Minister. That was the last one entered into the debate so far. [[Mr Bendl reporting on the right.]] Sorry. Mr. Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u42	Thank you for the floor. Hopefully, I'll make it in due course. I'll sign up right away. I'm gonna try to quote one of those paragraphs here. "The Sports Organisation shall commit an administrative offence by in violation of § 3a para. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 3." This means that each organisation will have to register all its athletes and will have to update the changes, otherwise it will expose itself to administrative offences, and if convicted in an administrative offence, it cannot reach the subsidy because it has broken the rules. That's what you have in the law. So I'd like to ask you what it's going to look like in practice. Who's gonna check it out? How many people do you have in the Czech Republic that won't happen there? And how will that be in practice? Because, of course, one thing is the organization of a professional club that plays top-notch, like an extra league, so of course they'll be fine. But how are you gonna control that in those villages and small towns that someone's already moved there or another coach is coming in who's training them right now? Because often those coaches are the parents of children or something. Who are you gonna get so he's willing to take care of it so he doesn't expose himself to your responsibilities that they're gonna have to update these things under sanctions from an administrative offense? How do you do that? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u43	Thank you. Madam Secretary with priority rights. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u44	Dear colleagues, I will, of course, respond to a question, even if it does not concern the content of the refund. As far as this concern is concerned, I will just repeat what has already been discussed during the debate in the Chamber of Deputies, that this penalty concerns the situation where the recipient of public funding from the state, in this case both non-investment and investment, for example, the association, and you know that part of this is a very often discussed membership base - a member base - so this is a delicacy for pretending to have more members than it has, it is a matter that we have been dealing with for years in the sports environment. It calls into question the sports environment, leads to various cases. This responds to a situation where, in principle, someone lists defective data, which are key to the extent to which aid is to be allocated to him. It's the usual way. If anyone is not interested in the aid, they do not need to state anything and in that case they need not be afraid that if they do not update the data on which the aid is granted, they will be sanctioned. And I would very much hate for us to question from the point of view of public funds, whoever they are, that it is illegitimate to monitor the truthfulness of the information on the basis of which they obtain public funds from the State, the region or the municipality. That should probably apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u45	Thank you, Minister. In fact, Mr Bendl. Or properly logged in? [[Yes, properly.]] Properly. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u46	Properly. Thank you. But I'll be short, of course. What the Secretary of State has told us here is as clear as crystal. We're not going to give you the money on the way of the tax determination to decide for yourself, but we're actually going to take it away from you, we're going to give it to you on the basis that you're obliged to create registers, record everyone, file every change, and on that basis, logically, you're going to get the state money that we took from that municipal budget before, and woe to you, once you make a mistake, we're going to jump on you, because we have to, because that's what the law says, and we're going to be obliged to babysit the state money. Well, that's probably true that you're obliged to defend state money, but it won't go in practice - it won't - in those unprofessional, often in the small villages of existing sports divisions that are there and which would be stupid if they didn't want money when you took it away from their municipal budgets before, so they wouldn't ask the state for it. So they're gonna fill out the questionnaire, they're gonna say, "The coach is Mr. Novák today, we've got 11 kids here, they're gonna send it to you." In the meantime, some kid leaves, the coach changes, that happens three times a year, because they're just not the coaches. And there's gonna be a D.O.D. check, they're gonna get a ticket, they're not gonna be able to touch any money ever again. Or maybe you'll be kind enough to say, "Hey, we'll sort it out, we'll fuck it up a little bit. I mean, it's not really... So you don't have to do it exactly. I mean, that's a total nonsense you're here to approve. But he's full of shit. It just can't work. That's not even socialism. This is simply a bureaucratic obstacle to how to make them vassals in order to reach some money pidi. Maybe some of you end up blowing it off, 'cause in practice, they're gonna find out it's just the big guys you want to give the money to and they're pushing you to do something like that. But for a general sport, for young people to be at some reasonable level, to work in every village and village, you do nothing for it. You're basically stealing their money!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u47	Excuse me, Madam Secretary, you may be a lady, but Prime Minister Stanjura applied first with priority rights. [[Member of Stanjura: De facto!]] Really? Excuse me. So, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u48	It's the political language again. I agree with the Minister that the State should control the resources it gives to someone, for example through subsidies. Hasn't this happened before? Do we need new responsibilities? You can't do it without the law? The answer is: you can! It's that simple. But there's another thing I'm missing from these thoughts. We have many sports sites in the Republic that are not used as it could be, and these are school sports areas. And I'll tell you how self-government works in my city. We have decided that we will offer the school sports centre outside the teaching hours. It costs us quite a lot, about a million crowns a year, because we're paying some caretaker, someone who controls the playgrounds or those kindergarten gardens. That's the right support. And if you give this to the municipalities in the tax budget, maybe other municipalities will add to it, and you don't have to build new gyms when you have built those schoolhouses that are often full. And I understand that the headmaster doesn't have the power to pay for supervision outside of school. Then give the money to the municipalities to do it. It's that simple. And maybe I'll ask you, Madam Secretary, were you in favour of, or opposed to, increasing the budgetary determination of taxes for municipalities and cities?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u49	I ask the Members not to shout at each other. [[ANO Members.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u50	I'd like a little educational window, I've got 29 seconds left. Dear members of the ANO 2011 movement club, members of the government vote on the government. I know that some of you believe that the Minister will come to the government and not vote. Well, at least don't yell at me. Keep that stupid thing to yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u51	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say that my fellow Members from the Civil Democratic Party are contradicting each other. President Stanjura is right, yes, all the data we are discussing so passionately must be processed by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports now. But what is not able to ensure - and this is given, I would say, the question of progress, of time - in terms of the amount of data and the number of requests we have to process, and we are blamed for this, for example. The Supreme Audit Office or the Audit Committee of this Chamber of Deputies, so, of course, we are not able to ensure sufficient verification that these data are updated from the point of view of the Member State's base that we are able to process any relevant control plan. I don't think it's dirty. Moreover, if the Supreme Audit Office or the Supervisory Committee of the Chamber of Deputies invites me to do so, I am obliged to accept this as a minister. That's all true. As far as electronization is concerned, we're talking in one word about how to electronize so that we can have modern public administration. On the other hand, we hear here that this is supposed to be some sort of atrocities to destroy Czech sport. The opposite is true. Our last steps also suggest it. We want to improve as much as possible the methodological support towards the applicants, so that they understand correctly how they should ask for what, it was as simple as possible. And I must strongly turn my back on Mr Bendl's statement about stealing something through you, Mr President. I believe that I have done everything in the last year to aim as much money as possible towards sports clubs, and, after all, the concept of sport, which has been approved by the government this week, government policy is heading in this direction, towards sports clubs. Nothing like this has happened in the past ten years. This means, please - by your means, Mr President - do not tell us about the big boys. We don't know them, our coalition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u53	Thank you, Minister. That was the last one entered into the debate. If no one's reporting, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking about the final... Sorry. With priority rights, the President of the KDU-ČSL.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u54	For the third time, the Prime Minister missed me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u55	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, you're so stealthy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that this long debate will show that we are all interested in sport. I'm sure that's a positive message. At least I'm verbally sure that's the case. I hope it's for real. As far as the actual promotion of sport is concerned, unfortunately, this proposal does not have much to do with it, because the most important thing, namely funding, is also missing from our point of view. I also continue to join colleagues who have been harassing bureaucracy or over-regulation. I don't like it either. For this reason, we prefer the Senate version of the bill. It releases the obligation of municipalities to develop a sport development plan, which we consider to be an entirely unnecessary bureaucratic regulation. The state doesn't give the municipalities a crown on this plan. The original text from the Chamber of Deputies therefore forces municipalities only to have unnecessary bureaucracy. The municipality will either allocate money from its budget to promote sport or not, it is only up to their will. There is therefore no reason to order them only further paperwork by law. And that's what we've been criticizing from the start. There will be a new law on promoting sport, where there will be clear rules on funding. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-28-ps2013-048-01-002-002.u57	Thank you, Prime Minister. We are at the end of the debate. There is no interest in the final words yet. We shall therefore proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, which I will read, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby, and I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 115/2001 Coll., on the promotion of sport, as amended, and other related laws, according to the House press 590/5, as approved by the Senate, according to the House press 590/6.' I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 26 vote, 153 Members and Members registered, for 18, against 106. The motion was not accepted. I note that we have not agreed to the bill as approved by the Senate. Therefore, we shall vote again, pursuant to Article 97 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt this resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 115/2001 Coll., on the promotion of sport, as amended, and other related laws, as amended, in which it was referred to the Senate, pursuant to House press 590/5. I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 27, 155 Members are registered, for 128, against 22. The motion was accepted. I state that we have given our consent to the bill. [[There is an isolated applause from both left and right.]] I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. As I have been informed, the condition has already been met so that we can return to the draft Sales Time Act in retail and wholesale, and this is the presence of the plaintiff of the Senate.
