ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-011-039.u1	39. Government bill amending Act No. 477/2001 Coll., on Packaging and Amendment of Certain Acts (Law on Packaging), as amended /German press 877/ - first reading Before I request the floor of the Minister of the Environment, Richard Brabec, who will submit the proposal under the authority of the Government, I will ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Josef Nekl to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-011-039.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the main objective of this bill is the transposition of a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the Directives on packaging and packaging waste as regards the limitation of the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags. Just for a brief orientation on the subject. For the purpose of the necessary transposition of the directive it is proposed in the legislation on packaging to provide that so-called. a lightweight plastic carrier bag may be granted to the consumer at the point of sale of the product at least for reimbursement of the costs corresponding to the cost of its acquisition. This should meet the requirement of the Directive that light plastic shopping bags are not provided free of charge at the point of sale. At the same time, the proposed obligation, in accordance with the exception of the directive, will not apply to the so-called very lightweight plastic carrier bags. These are sanitary bags, or bags, in which we pack bread. According to the bill, any seller would set the price of plastic carry-on bags himself. However, it must require the consumer to at least compensate for the purchase costs of this bag. The proposed law also introduces reporting of data from records kept by so-called authorised packaging company through an integrated system of compliance with environmental reporting obligations or Ministry of Data Boxes. The draft law also sets out new recycling and recovery targets for packaging waste in Annex No. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I stress that, even after the debate with all the partners concerned, as well as within the framework of the inter-ministerial commentary procedure, these objectives are set to take account of the implementation of the current, i.e. this year, of the incentive and yet feasible. The Czech Republic does not have a problem with these objectives in most of these areas, and in some areas it is even a European leader. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] The proposed adjustment also affects the provisions of Paragraph 9 (2) of the EC Treaty. 10 in which the persons putting drinks into circulation in non-refundable back-up packages are required to offer the same drinks also in returned back-up packages, provided that such drinks are placed on the market. This obligation shall not apply to persons putting drinks into circulation on a sales area of less than 200 square metres. I would like to stress that this obligation is already in the existing law. And even within the interreort, there was a big debate with the relevant subjects.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-011-039.u3	Minister, I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace. Discussors who discuss a subject other than the Packing Act, I will ask that they bring their discussions into the foyer and have the Minister present this government proposal in a dignified atmosphere.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-011-039.u4	Thank you for your support. I can't believe my colleagues and colleagues wouldn't care about the return bottles, but I'm gonna have to deal with it. Instead of repealing the provision, which the Ministry of Industry and Trade initially requested, a compromise solution was subsequently agreed to narrow the scope of the provision to only three of the most common types of beer. The effectiveness of certain provisions of the bill relating to the obligation to provide the consumer with a lightweight plastic carrier bag at least for the reimbursement of costs corresponding to the costs incurred and the obligation to report data from records kept by the authorised packaging company is proposed as of 1 January 2018. In view of the close transposition deadline of the directive, which is the end of November, I would like to ask you to shorten the time for the committees to 30 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-011-039.u5	I thank the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabco and ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Josef Nekl to present his report. - Mr rapporteur, wait a minute, I will say one more apology, and I will apologise to Minister Daniel Herman from 15.30 for departmental reasons until the end of the day. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-011-039.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has explained in practical detail the philosophy of the proposed amendment to the Packaging Act, with the idea that the main idea is to prevent a larger presence of plastic bags among residents. The ones they get for free - I don't know, I didn't notice, there was a noise. Perhaps there are two interesting numbers that by 2019 should not exceed the sale of these bags per person and per year in our country 90 pieces and by 2025 forty of these bags. I don't think that's gonna be a problem here. It's not gonna be a problem with all the other stuff. Perhaps - the directive is supplemented by Annex No. 3, where there will probably be a discussion about increasing the limits for collection of waste in certain commodities from wood to paper, through salaries, through metals through glass etc. But that will certainly be the focus of discussion in the guarantee committee or other committees. So I would recommend that we let this bill into second reading. And I'm also joining the proposal to shorten the deadline to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-011-039.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which two Members are duly enrolled. First of all, Mr Michal Kučera is Member and Mr Jan zahradník will be prepared. And once again, I will ask my colleagues for peace so that the debaters can speak properly. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-011-039.u8	Hello, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us the amendment to the law, or the transposition of the directive of the European Union, which is completely unnecessary. It is precisely a demonstration of the work done by the European Union, which unfortunately, in the eyes of citizens, degrades otherwise the good work of the European Union itself. This standard, I think, will burden our legal system completely unnecessarily, and I think the whole matter could have been dealt with in a completely different way than a special amendment that would involve a number of shopping bags in some supermarkets. This, in my view, is beyond meaningfulness. As the Minister and the rapporteur have already said here, we will be dealing with how many lightweight plastic bags per human being we will be able to consume annually in 2025. If it's 90 light plastic bags by December 2025, or 40 light plastic shopping bags per person, etc. That really seems a little weird to me. [[15.50 hours]] I want to say - and this is also mentioned in the explanatory report, and I think it is worth the attention - that precise analyses of the consumption of lightweight plastic carry-on bags have never been carried out in the Czech Republic. Here I quote from the explanatory memorandum: and given the absence of a single European methodology, it is not possible to establish with certainty whether the Czech Republic is currently fulfilling the above objectives proposed by the directive. I'm quoting that from the explanatory memorandum. We're gonna accept a separate novel for that. It also states that, in order to ensure the necessary transposition of the directive in question, it is therefore proposed to lay down measures in the Packaging Act, which will ensure that the consumer pays at least the costs for the light plastic carrier bags at the point of sale of the product, that is to say, he pays for the bags. That means that we're actually prescribing something that's actually in the businessman's direction, whether he decides to give the bag or anything else to the customer as a bonus, or whether he's going to have to pay for it. I want to say that this amendment really should be directed to some developing countries where plastic bags and waste in general are a huge problem as such. Who you had the opportunity to look somewhere in Africa or India, there the plastic bags really dramatically burden the environment and the overall environment. I don't think this is the case at all in the Czech Republic, that this here concerns rather the recycling and subsequent recovery of waste as such, virtually. what plastic bags are made of and their half-life, in quotation marks therefore, decay. I would like to say that this directive or this amendment will, of course, bring additional administrative costs or administrative demands for the entities concerned, because - here I would refer again to the explanatory memorandum - the proposed law further introduces reporting of data from records kept by the authorised packaging company through an integrated system of compliance with environmental reporting obligations. This means that there will be another obligation here as regards the authorities as regards entrepreneurs, etc. In general, I think, and I would end my speech and follow up on what I said at the beginning, that this whole directive rather shows a pointless step by the European Union, and I regret that this is the way that some of the actions that are going in the right direction in the field of the environment are being demoted. From my point of view, it is a directive that is absolutely useless. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-011-039.u9	I thank Mr Michal Kučer. The words will be taken by Mr Jan zahradník. Mr Simeon Karamazov will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-011-039.u10	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I will not be as lenient as Mr Kučera's European optimist and I will not argue that the European Commission works perfectly with this one exception. It's not like that. Of course, the European Union is burdening us with a whole range of things consisting in their social engineering, and this planning is not just for a period of some ten years, but it is even planning our lives for the entire 21st century to its very end. The truth is, however, that the law before us is another of a series of laws adopted under pressure, which means that once again we are at risk of this mysterious infringement, those sanctions that could be quantified in the order of thousands and tens of thousands of euros per day as sanctions against our republic, so that we may not be left with this law, and we must adopt it again. The only advantage of it is that of the three options that the European Union allows to solve the problem of excess plastic bags all around us, that means to ban them - that is one option, somewhere to record, measure, weigh, collect, terribly administratively demanding - that is the other option. And the third option is by law to charge, which is the procedure chosen by the Ministry. This enabled the wolf to feed and the goat to remain whole. That's the way it is. If we look at the definitions, of course, the definition for us is the lightweight plastic carry-on bag. It has to be said here that it is actually normally sold in supermarkets. Then it's the very light plastic carry-on bag, that's the bag of thin plastic with two ears in which you put two or three rolls, depending on how you decide, or two doughnuts, and you don't have to buy a whole bag of doughnuts, eat two and throw the rest away. I guess that means using these very light bags to prevent waste. The important thing here is that a lightweight plastic carrier bag can only be provided to consumers, it is us as those customers, at least for the cost of purchasing it. That doesn't apply if it's the very light plastic carry bag. These will be free of charge in the place where the goods are apparently displayed. The light ones will be provided for remuneration in a place where a person pays for his purchase. The question is, what's the purchase value of the bag? I have a feeling it's not an expensive thing, that the purchase price is in the order of pennies. So the trader will be able to decide how to evaluate the bag, whether to charge four crowns or 20 cents. In my opinion, it's up to him. Of course, I will recommend to my colleagues in the Civil Democratic Party that, despite some of the uselessness of this law, we avoid the draconian sanctions that the European Union intends to impose on us if we do not accept it and release the law into second reading. At second reading there will be no extra large space for any changes. Only perhaps it would be theoretically possible to consider whether we should consider charging plastic bottles as part of this amendment, which opens the Packaging Act. That's a thing that's very sensitive, because recently we've been dealing with the Air Protection Act here, and I'm already mentioning it for the second time today, where we want to break into people's houses and check if they happen to be the same plastic bottles filled with maybe different ingredients, people don't burn in their boilers and stoves. And here's where the opinion was expressed, now I don't know who said it would be good to back up plastic bottles, and thus motivate people to even lower income categories to hand them in, return them, and for some small money they could evaluate them and not burn them in their tops. But that is a matter that will not be quite simple, and I do not know if we could do it - in addition, the rapporteur here and the Minister propose to shorten the time for discussion to 30 days, so I guess no one would have made it. So it's more of a question of theory. But what I think is necessary to note here, and the Minister and the rapporteur did not, oddly enough, mention it. In the Act, as Annex 3, there is a table setting out the required extent of recycling and the total use of packaging waste. And here you may remember, I'm sure that about 2.5 years ago we dealt with the Waste Act here, and at that time we noticed the great significance of this table, which set limits on recycling and limits on the overall use of packaging materials. And we found out that the Ministry was proposing completely crazy limits, crazy high limits, which, if we weren't able to meet, we would expose ourselves to big fines and sanctions, which would have to be imposed by lawless limits. [[16.00 hours]] That was a good time, and then my colleague Urban and I tabled an amendment that brought those limits back to a normal position in percentage terms. But there is one figure that, after 2020, since 1 January of the same year, determines the total use of all waste at 80 percent. This is a number like each other, but here it is immediately stated that it counts when reaching it, among other things, and here I have to read it, "as one form also energy use and organic recycling." Organic recycling, that's some composting. But energy use requires that we have working incinerators. And when we look at the incinerators, we see that we are not able to put them into operation. Even in Pilsen, the incinerator is still blocked by some environmental terrorists who already intend to squander or squander billions. We have the EIA Act, which to anyone, beside a resident, who would eventually have a legitimate one, but also an environmentalist with an ideological program, will prevent everything from being enforced effectively. So we must not expect that in some foreseeable time - and 2020, it is in a moment that yes - it was possible to count on energy use of waste, including packaging waste. So I think that this number here is too high in my opinion, and that will be the object of my attempt in the form of an amendment to return this number from head to foot and into some real dimensions. In conclusion, we will not propose the rejection of this law, we will support its procedure for second reading, and then at second reading we will try to correct it somehow. Thank you, Minister, for your attention and all of you, colleagues, colleagues, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-011-039.u11	Good afternoon. I thank Mr Zahradník. Another party to the general debate is Mr Simeon Karamazov. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-011-039.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union's popularity has fallen steadily in recent years, and the reasons for this trend are obvious. Instead of solving its own economic problems, Europe opens its arms to millions of migrants whose positive benefits to the economy we can only dream of. Anyone who disagrees is dehonested and identified as xenophobic. Neither the economic differences of its members play any role in European Union policy. The euro is to be extended to almost the entire continent, without any reflection of the situation in which Greece, for example, is in danger of other countries. However, when citizens of smaller states demand foods of the same quality as those available in Western countries, they are told that their taste preferences are different and therefore the quality of food may not be the same. Thus, Čech and Slovák erase meatless pate on bread and enjoy ketchups that share only color with tomato. To make matters worse, the bureaucratic apparatus is still growing and tens of thousands of Eurohujers from Brussels are smiling at us, whose only goal is to meet the conditions for a high lifetime rent as soon as possible. In the meantime, however, they must be engaged in work, which is mainly about inventing more and more senseless regulations. One of these is the proposed amendment to the Packaging Act, which follows Directive No. 2015/720. Not that I want to speak against environmental protection at this point, certainly not. However, I am wondering what problems the European Union is dealing with and which, on the contrary, leaves unnoticed. Do they really think it is necessary in Brussels to regulate the consumption of plastic bags? I suppose so. According to the directive, the annual consumption rate of plastic bags is to fall to 90 bags per person by the end of 2019 and to less than half by the end of 2025. I'm asking you, ladies and gentlemen, what's next. Will supermarkets be required to employ controllers in ten years to advise us on how many purchases we can carry in our hands and how many bags can we buy? Or will the cashiers count our shopping bags and not sell us any more from reaching the limit? I don't know, but comrades in Brussels may know the answer. However, whatever the future plans of the European Union in this area are, I think they will do no good. This is another line of nonsensical regulations that only burden people's private lives. While China's economy and many others are growing, Europe seems to want to regulate itself to death. I understand that we are obliged to transpose the directive, but let us sometimes try to think more about the fruits that our membership of the European Union brings. Let us therefore not be surprised at the citizens who are increasingly discouraged by the European Union. The recent referendum in Great Britain was the last chance for Europe to rethink its current direction. If it fails in this role, the whole European project will fail. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-011-039.u13	I thank Mr Karamaz. With a factual remark, Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-011-039.u14	Thank you for the floor. I would just, Mr Karamazov, through Mr President, do not lubricate the meatless bread pate for the European Union, you are erasing it because someone is making it and because someone is buying it. And, of course, you can also buy a pate that has a high content or share of meat. Indeed, it is not the European Union's fault.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-011-039.u15	Thank you. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. Member Ivan Adamec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-011-039.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, I would quite like to see the idea put forward by my colleague Zahradník here, and that is the question so called. PET bottles, PET bottles. I think and think that this is a much bigger problem now than those PET bags, plastic bags, because unlike those plastic bags that burn very poorly, PET bottles burn very well, especially when something is in them. So, of course, we have these problems that all the smokes that come out of the chimneys look like what they look like, and that in every village, in every town, we have a couple of these guys who drown PET bottles filled with oil, kitchen residue, and so on just to save a few crowns, and they destroy their own chimney and their own boiler. That doesn't bother them much, because they don't really care. Finally, who you have experience in sorting, separation of waste, and you know that in cities today, those separation vessels are virtually everywhere, so who was in it, there were also times when it was a big problem to even report these sorted PET bottles, because as far as I know, once a great customer of this waste was China, then suddenly refused and no one knew what we were going to do with this waste. Eventually, of course, everyone saw benches from the recycling plant, fences from the recycling plant from these bottles, but it's not the purpose. Today, when I look at the product range sold in PET bottles of different types, including beer, the increase here is huge, and the risk of environmental pollution is much worse than that of PET bottles. [[Bags?]] Let me tell you a personal story from the Amazon. When I was in the jungle in the Amazon years ago, Indians, natives, unfortunately, have already used PET bottles, and the problem is that their relationship to the environment is that nature solves everything that it throws away, it just rots, disintegrates. And that's how they treat those plastic PET bottles. They just dump them in the forest, and there's garbage practically forever. I would really like to have a system set up here to buy back these PET bottles, because that would solve a lot of problems. On the other hand, it must also be said that the price of the PET bottle backup does not have to discourage those heaters, because it is still cheaper than when they buy quality coal or wood. I would also like this issue not to fit in, so that we can possibly get back to it in other discussions, because I personally consider it a bigger problem than plastic bags. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-011-039.u17	Thank you, honourable Member. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-011-039.u18	Thank you for the floor. Just a quick reaction. Thank you for this relatively favourable adoption, even in the light of the fact that we have to comply with the European directive in this case, which we can also think of. At this point, I think the Ministry of the Environment has proposed a solution that should have positive effects and is essentially based on the current situation. I mean, most of these big hypermarkets or big stores now charge plastic bags or so-called plastic bags, so it shouldn't be a big hit. And I have to say that there has been a dramatic reduction in the consumption of lightweight plastic carry-on bags after charging in recent years, so it has clearly brought about its effect and I believe that this effect will just continue with this amendment. I want to assure everyone that, of course, the issue of the potential charging of PET bottles is also something that we consider, compare or consider, compare different foreign models, it is not easy. I will certainly welcome the debate that will also be on the committee subsequently, and, of course, we are prepared to defend the level of recycling of the total use of individual materials in committee, so that we can convince ourselves that this is feasible without any draconian problems for processors or producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-011-039.u19	Thank you to the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-011-039.u20	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, I would also respond. My previous speakers, Mr. Zahradník and Mr. Kučera, were also talking about Annex 3. I just want to say that I mentioned it, but it would not be effective to discuss it here in this plenary right now. I'm sure it'll be discussed in the guarantee committee, including the final numbers, the sorting of the waste and its processing. I am also aware that there is not yet a concept for the construction of waste energy recovery facilities in this country. That means that the final number of 80 percent is quite at risk. And I'm saying we can discuss that later on on the committee. I think everything has been said. I'd just add from personal experience, I like it. It is true that the bags are usually sold, but last Saturday I was forced to do something I don't like from my heart to visit a large shopping mall in Prague and do some big shopping. Whatever clothing store we went into, with electronics, they forced a big bag everywhere, even though I refused, no, it's like advertising, so maybe that'll make things a little easier, and people will understand that everything doesn't have to be good for the environment. That's just the conclusion. I would like to remind you that I have proposed, on the basis of a recommendation or an agreement with the Minister, that the time limit for the hearing be reduced to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-011-039.u21	Thank you. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the proposal submitted for consideration by the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee. Does anyone else have a proposal for a guarantee committee? It's not like that. I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the environmental board's commandments as a guarantee committee. Initiating vote. Whoever is for the commandment to this committee, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 321, registered 115 Members, for 110, against none. I note that we have ordered the proposal to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment? It's not like that. Since I do not see any further proposal that we should vote on, I am ending the first reading of this proposal. Sorry, I don't have it written here. It's been designed. I'm sorry, I'm going back. I was warned that the deadline was still to be shortened, that it had been proposed for 30 days. We will therefore vote to shorten the deadline by 30 days to 30 days. Initiating vote. Whoever is to shorten the deadline, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 322, with 121 Members registered, for 86, against 21. The motion was accepted. I note that we have ordered this bill to the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee and have reduced the deadline to 30 days. That concludes the first reading of this bill. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is the item
