ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u1	219. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations The first intervention that Ms Jana Fischerová disagreed with is the reply of the Minister for Education, Youth and Sports Kateřina Valachová on the long-awaited conceptual material of the national plan for teaching foreign languages for the next period. It's press 803, and it's an adjourned hearing. The presence of the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Kateřina Valachová, who is present, was interrupted. I am opening the debate and I am asking whether the Minister is reporting or Mrs Jana Fischerová. Mrs Jana Fischerová is reporting why she refused her answer. My colleague, let me just read - Mr Tejc will have a replacement card number 16 for today. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u2	Good morning to you all. My interpelation was interrupted actually because of the absence of the Minister, so we haven't spoken to each other in this way face to face, so I will now continue with the same tone based on my written interpelation. This concerns interpelation regarding the language preparation of pupils, students and in general - the national plan for teaching foreign languages. I know that this is a topic that is not the first time here, because even some of my colleagues have already intersected this, and I confess that it matters very much to me personally. I'm not a educator, but I'm a person whose hobby is really languages, and I have people around me because I'm also a member of the Chamber of Court interpreters, so I have people who...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to remain calm. There are not enough of us here to listen calmly to Mrs Jana Fischerová, who certainly had reasons for refusing the Minister's reply. Otherwise, she wouldn't have thought of it as the press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u4	...it's an area they're interested in. All I have to do is walk in front of our House. There you can see the 700th anniversary of Karel IV. Emperor of the Four Thrones. And why was he so successful? Not only did he do all he could but he also controlled five foreign languages. And I very much want our youth to be adapted to the world that is changing around us, because I will tell you that even as the world changes around us, I will quote Mr Radek Špicar, Vice President of the Union of Industry and Transport, who constantly repeats that schools should bring pupils to what awaits us in the fourth industrial revolution. The industry feeds us, but we can do it if we modernize it. And if an apprentice doesn't prepare for a basic conversation in a foreign language, he's raising an unemployed person. I want to underline this because I work with some schools. I also feel feedback from parents who have little children. They put them in private kindergartens, where they have the ability to teach mostly in German or English. And then they don't have any more continuity in primary schools. I will now explain why I did not agree with the Minister's reply, namely some of the things she answered in writing. Madam Secretary, first of all, you are not answering my question about the fate of the national foreign language learning plan. Rather, your answer shows that the plan has somehow fallen apart, and the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports is no longer applying for it. Although the last paragraph talks about the need to align a language concept with the national initiative Industry 4.0. That's actually what I was talking about in my opening speech. So my fundamental question is: does the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports intend to adopt the concept of language education or not? I could tell you about the process. I confess honestly, in this area I also watch the pages of the Ministry of Youth and Sports and there I was impressed, it is not published there now, but it was called. Eurostudent investigation. In this context, I found that you have published that in the Czech Republic there is one of the highest proportion of students from all monitored countries who have had a foreign study experience defined also by what foreign internship or language course. But - it is important now - unlike other European countries, especially the countries of the original European 15th, the teaching in the Czech Republic is hardly done in a foreign language. That's the important thing that bothers me, what I'd see. I don't know a school where a really good school course is taught in a foreign language. That's the vision I'm heading towards with my interpellation. So my question is, isn't it a shame? [[Reactions from the O.R.]] I heard it was. So thank you for your support here from among the Members. Two. Another incoherence is that at such a low level of pupils in foreign languages, it was a general investigation, it responds by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports planning to draft projects for operational programmes of research, development, education, which, in my opinion, is unconventional, because it should first be to identify the causes, then only conceptual proposals to solve the problem, so-called. the strategies I lack here, and then the funding to support the changes that are necessary for improvement. [[9.10 hours]] So my follow-up question about this is how the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports wants to assess the success of such an investment. How does he know that these specific things need to be financed? Is the Ministry based on the principle required by the European Commission that there is a strategy underlying the fund's finances? This is very important in all areas, which is why I also ask in the field of education and language education. So what strategy is the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports based on in writing calls for language education? In consultation with my colleagues who are involved in this in schools, especially in secondary schools, I asked what they had experience with this. They say - every small step in helping language education is extremely important, but for example the announcement in April 2015 of the 56th call, when teachers looked at different places, Malta, London, Vienna, so they mostly went where the travel agency offered them a language-oriented stay at the lowest price. Of course they took advantage of it. I'm glad he's going there, but it was torn out in a hurry so the money would be spent, and it didn't always follow the right course as it should be. Every step of the way, when anyone looks everywhere, I commend. It's only good, but it's not based on any strategy. At that time 1.4 billion were used. CZK for this language education in the Czech Republic. There was a lot of unspent European money in language teaching at primary schools last year. The Czech Republic lags behind the European average, so in July 2015 another challenge came, this time with number 57, for the development of English, German and French language teaching in the form of blended learning. I also asked how it went, but only one system used by a single company was used to do it, and the system does not meet the requirements of the challenge at all, because it is not intended for blended learning and is not a solution to English teaching, it only corresponds to the conditions of the selection of the teaching system. If there is conceptual teaching of foreign languages, a combination of different forms is really needed. We know how the development of information technology is now progressing. All of this must be mixed with proper language teaching and a change in the style of foreign language learning is needed. It is a long-term process, we know, in which it is important to change the role of teacher and other principles that have nothing to do with the use of this very only system that was used in challenge 57. Therefore, in schools, thanks to this amateurism and clientelism, if I may call it that, the expression blended learning became synonymous with one teaching program. In fact, the third thing that I find inconsistent in your answer, Madam Secretary, is the passage of your answer, in which the so-called challenges, or templates, are mentioned, as they are called in the context of education, in which there is a possibility to draw support for language education. You're quite extensive in your answer. However, this does not correspond to the 2016 call schedule, Priority axis 3 entitled Support for schools in the form of simplified reporting projects or templates with a allocation of 300 million. Crowns. However, they do not result in such material targeting of foreign languages. I therefore ask what will be the content of the challenges for primary and secondary schools in 2016, i.e. this year, and for next year 2017 to improve teaching of foreign languages. I'm coming to an end in my interpellation. I am proud to come from a country in Central Europe that has also made us famous as a teacher of the nations of Komenský, who has just mastered foreign languages and made us famous. I very much wish that we would make progress in this direction in teaching foreign languages and establishing a national plan for teaching foreign languages. It's very important to our youth, to our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u5	Thank you, Mrs Jana Fischerová. Madam Secretary Kateřina Valachová is about to answer. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Members, yes, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports wants to adopt the concept of language education, including language education in vocational education. It is important to say that the basis of the concept is being developed. This was consulted with representatives of professional associations and employers' associations. Also through this document she was familiar with the basic requirements of the Fundová section, which is currently processing individual challenges. But what is important to say, as the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, we also have the task of processing education 4.0 by the end of this year, which is a document that is meant to correspond with the document Industry 4.0 and on the platform for vocational education that works at the Ministry of Education, it has been agreed that this document should be incorporated into the document Industry 4.0, which means that there should be one document so that we do not have more documents. As far as time is concerned, I would like us to finish these work by the autumn of this year and at the same time incorporate the linking of this national standard, national measures based on national money, with European money. As far as OP VVV is concerned, we are declaring individual aids either through templates or individual projects towards all schools, which means parent, primary, medium and high, but I recognise that it would be appropriate for all this information to be aligned to one timeline and to be clear where we are heading. From the point of view of where we are going, I just want to remind you that the standards for foreign languages at elementary schools have been defined for the first time since 1 September 2013, so we are actually just getting close to the moment when we should also start verifying the extent to which these standards have started to work for us. I would also like to remind the recently approved amendment to the school law, which allows replacing the profiling part of the graduation exam with a standardized language examination, or that in April of this year we approved the creation and revision of curricular documents for pre-school, primary and secondary education at national level, including, of course, language education. As regards the revision of the framework training programme in the field of language education, it should be completed during 2017. However, in the bottom line, it does not make sense to define the partial steps to support language education or to reflect on the situation that is true and described by the Member. I would like to make a promise that we will present the concept in the autumn. As for the partial concept of language education, I shall present it to the Member for information, in principle, in the order of two weeks. Finally, I would like to say that I am sorry, because I know that Minister Chládek promised this concept to Members already in November 2014, and it is therefore appropriate that the work be completed. So I conclude that this will be conceptually concluded in the Industry 4.0, which will also include Education 4.0, but we will present the partial concept as soon as possible and the training platform will discuss tomorrow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u7	Thank you, Minister Kateřina Valachová. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Karel Rais. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u8	Thank you. I was very interested in hearing what the ladies were saying. Of course, I agree with that, because it is basically necessary to realize at least in the last ten years, for example, our university gives at least tens of millions of crowns in teaching actually in the first and second years of students to even the deficit at all, because the students come unprepared. Consider, too, that it is not only the education of students but also the education of teachers. I don't want to touch them, but that's just a necessary condition, not enough, and it's the way in the right direction. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u9	I thank Mr Karel Rais. Now, Mr Chalupa's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to, although I didn't sign up for the interviews, I have some knowledge of the program that allowed schools and pupils to go abroad to those schools, and I know how the selection procedures were conducted. And I think that the people who put in the tender terms for these tender procedures often didn't even know what the issue was about, and those procurement terms weren't quite well solved, and in the end it turned out that the money was actually given to anyone who applied, even without tenders. So if you have someone that I can communicate with in some way so that we don't deal with it here in the House, I'd be happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u11	Thank you, and I ask, who else to debate? Mrs Fischerová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u12	Thanks again for the word. From face to face, Madam Secretary. I thank you for what you promised me, Madam Secretary. I know it's been a long run, and I'm very happy about what you're writing to me in your answer, that you'll keep me informed about the next steps, or when I get invited to these negotiations, I'm not saying to everyone, but which will be so crucial, I'm very happy to be involved, because I want to watch it. What my colleagues said here now about how they reacted. I had a similar setup with the teachers, because it had absolutely nothing to do with it. I, too, had taken such a quick course myself, when we moved from Russian to English, so I know what it meant and how great it was all of a sudden a contribution so that pupils could gradually go to English. And about the challenge that was going on, it was organized through the regional authorities and so on, and it was entered, I know it was very difficult, the impact wasn't what it should be. But I say, any drop that allows the teachers or students to stay in a country where they can practically test their language skills, so thank you for that. So I thank you with this, but I'm just going to ask you face to face that you will keep me informed, and as you promised here that this should be passed on in the fall, so thank you for the words. And if I don't, I'll turn myself in again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u13	So, now a factual remark from Mr Rom Kostřice and Mr Fiedler's proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, thank you for the floor. I'd just like to make a comment. As a university teacher, I witness that a number of texts, especially for doctors or in the postgraduate style of study, are published in Czech. I don't want to say that these texts are distilled in some way, but I had the opportunity once as a student to be in Sweden for practice, and there I was surprised to find that many of these texts are not published in Swedish but in English. At that time, so today Sweden is a relatively small state compared with the Czech Republic, it would certainly be possible for Swedish authorities to simply arrange extradition in Swedish. But they did it on purpose, because, of course, it's more complicated for those students at the beginning, but after they come to some international congresses and other international forums, it's a huge, huge contribution. I think this is a thing that deserves some form of support from us, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u15	I thank Mr Rom Kostřic. Now, Mr Fiedler, at this very moment, the last one entered into the debate on this rejected response to Ms Jana Fischerová's interpelation. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u16	Good morning. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would take advantage of this interpelation, which my colleague Mrs Fischerová has, and it has essentially linked it to my interpellation, this is the House's 826, which is a very similar subject. On my part it is the second in this matter, the first was for former Minister Chládek, because I am also not sure when she will get to me and when we will meet the Minister here again, it is also not certain. I was very pleased to hear what I heard here, but I stress that it was just a promise. I, from the experience that I have, what I'm doing, have already been promised so much and so much claimed as the concept is done, and it's not - and I'm going to use maybe such more harsh words now. Madam Secretary, it does not concern you, of course, I am very well aware of your position, under what circumstances and what you have entered into. But on the basis of my meetings, which I attended with the Ministry of Education officials, I could not this Monday, when there was going to be a meeting, but I attended the previous one, I really have a little doubt that if the same people are still working on it, that we will move on, because these are still the same promises from the same people and nothing is being realized. Round table, April 2015, which I think you refer to in response to my interpelation, I say it is one of the following prints, but it is basically the same subject. I took part in that round table, and there, to my great dismay, I discovered that everything was at the beginning, that they were starting to renegotiate on the parameters of some of the rules of what should be said. To my great dismay, I found that after so many years of saying how everything was prepared, nothing was prepared. And I confirmed it at a meeting I attended at your ministry about a month or six weeks ago. So I welcome your words that you acknowledge the condition that you've given some promise of the autumn term here. Maybe I'd like to be a little more specific for at least a month. At least a month to talk about. Because this is not only related to education, it is as Mr Kostřica said in another professional sector. I know from the workers of the Union of Industry who are simply desperate for the knowledge with which our elementary school students and high school students leave. Comparative tests or comparative studies show that our children's language skills and our students are at a lower level than in the surrounding countries, even though they spend more hours doing so. What my fellow Member Chalupa said, and I have exactly the same experience, many - I don't know if millions or billions - have been spent in an inexorable way. It was just spent to be spent, it was called investing, I was always very allergic to that word. And that was just wasted money. And the concept of language teaching in education is still missing. And now I'm going to take one such remark. I know he won't be popular, but he's going to, he's planning to raise teachers' salaries, which I agree with. I hope that there will be a reflection of the fact that it will be added to those who meet their qualifications and that, in the case of English or foreign languages, we will perhaps add to those who master the teaching properly, they will be qualified to do so, they will complete their education. That's what we've been talking about, I think it was last year, we were arguing about if we waved our hands and let go that teachers were supposed to complete their education, they didn't fill in, they didn't give a shit. I think this is a beautiful opportunity to say now: so those who have completed the qualification, those who meet all these requirements, so we will add to them, and I do not prevent them from being well appreciated. But I'm not gonna like it if it's added across the board to those who don't meet it, who don't have the proper qualifications for it and the quality of teaching. And I hope this debate is still going to take place here in the House attic. I would very much not like it to be a flat-rate increase. We have a wonderful opportunity to reward those who do well in their teaching, complete their qualifications, complete their language skills for teaching foreign languages, and let those who did not do so stand still. So I will finish my talk by asking you, if you could at least say by the time of the month by then and by then it will be done, and I think there will be a number of Members here in the Chamber of Deputies who will be watching closely. And I'll admit we're gonna step on your toes if it's not. But I believe things will finally move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u17	I thank Mr Fiedler. Madam Secretary wants to respond. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u18	In that case, I would specify that the concept of language education will be presented to you in October at the latest, so that it can be incorporated by the end of the year at the latest, in accordance with the Prime Minister's task on Education 4.0. And as for the other topics that have been raised here. Of course, we're working on some, we'll start working on some, but I'll be brief. I will put information on the school committee, and I can use the nearest school committee that will, and then through this press, all Members can get acquainted with it and, of course, they can ask me for any addition. Otherwise I would like to say that, in view of Mr Fiedler's doubts about who is working on the material, for this reason I have ordered it to be submitted to the Vocational Training Platform, where everyone is involved. Tomorrow - and I would also like to say that in recent weeks I have been trying to concentrate on better linking the outputs of the National Institute for Education, the National Institute for Further Education and the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. The situation in what we have done is not so tragic, but there is no endgame. And I believe I can convince you in October with the material. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u19	I thank the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Kateřina Valachová. Mr Fiedler's point of view. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u20	My factual remark saves time. I'd just like the secretary, when the answer is for my colleague Fischerová, I'd like to address her to me. At the same time, I think that we can release the 826 House Press for Mr President, because it was the same topic, thus saving time, because we would have spoken unnecessarily on the same subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u21	Well, I can't, because the 826-- it's, actually, it's here, yes, okay, so we're gonna take that as a done deal. Yes. That you didn't insist on any more answers. Mrs Fischerová has not proposed a resolution and we can therefore end this point. Before we go any further, allow me to clarify my apologies. He apologizes to Secretary Michaela Marksová within 11 o'clock and at 17 o'clock, not as I said, so it will be after 11 o'clock, and for oral questioning within 17 o'clock. Further apologies have been received, Mrs Marie Pěnčíková, within 11 hours for work reasons. Mr Ivan Gabal apologizes further within 12 o'clock, Mrs Golasowská within 11 o'clock, Mr Vít Kaňkovský from 9 to 11 o'clock, and the Minister of Defence from the morning meeting. We will continue by interpelling or responding to Mrs Miroslava Němcová's interpelation on a visit to the President of the People's Republic of China and his delegation in the Czech Republic, which was directed towards the Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. Madame, if you are interested in stating your rejected reply, which you have rejected, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I think it would be right for me to speak briefly, because this interpellation was interrupted at the last meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, about 14 days or three weeks ago, at the time when I finished the opening word, the time limit expired by 11 o'clock. Then the Prime Minister was to follow his speech. So I don't want to repeat what I said here three weeks ago, it probably wouldn't make any sense, although I understand that some of you have been here, some of you haven't been here, but I'll wait for the Prime Minister's speech, and then I'll possibly add my speech and respond to what he's going to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u23	Thank you. In that case, the Prime Minister is going to answer. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u24	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, allow me to respond to Mrs Němcová's speech on the previous responses to the written consultations held here in the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to respond to the various areas which have been the subject of the honourable Member's speech. First of all, regarding the question of President Miloš Zeman's statement on Chinese TV CCTV. I would like to point out here for the government that we became an independent country in 1989, and since then we have decided our fate. It is not always an easy decision, but we have this responsibility for ourselves. We have decided to join the North Atlantic Alliance, we have decided to join the European Union, and membership of these organisations naturally carries with it the rights and also the obligations of the Member States. I am convinced that it is good that the Czech Republic is part of NATO, that it is good that we are part of the EU. And it is probably appropriate that we also coordinate our foreign policy with our allies, which we have in these organisations, especially with regard to the issue of collective defence and security. As far as Czech-Chinese relations are concerned, they have been marked by a low frequency of political dialogue in previous years. This situation was related to some sovereign decisions of representatives of the Czech Republic, which the Chinese party also reacted negatively to, that is, with its own sovereign decisions. State visit of the President of the People's Republic of China to the Czech Republic. The state visit achieved a level of relations comparable to other EU Member States. I would like to remind you that, in the meantime, when we are having this debate here, the President of China visited Serbia here in the region of Central and Eastern Europe and also visited Poland. I remind you that Poland is not only our partner within the V4 countries but also our partner and ally within the EU and the North Atlantic Alliance. And I believe that the level of acceptance of the Chinese President in Poland was no different from the level of acceptance received by the highest Chinese official during his visit here in Prague. As far as the foreign minister's engagement is concerned, as the Foreign Minister confirmed to me, he spoke to the President before attending the Chinese President's visit, talking exclusively about preparations for this visit. The President's statements or positions on the matter were not the subject of their actions. Regarding the question of securing a Chinese visit to the capital city of Prague. I would like to reiterate that this is always a reciprocal issue in such cases. This means on the basis of which our designated state officials are given protection during their stay abroad. Thus, the security measures that we are taking to ensure the protection of the high constitutional officials arriving in Prague, so we expect that a similar extent of protection will be provided to our top constitutional officials during visits to their countries. The police have secured a safe course of the Chinese officials' visit, secured it by standard means. According to the investigations and evaluations carried out so far, the police have acted in accordance with the law and have acted in accordance with their internal rules. All initiatives submitted to citizens in connection with these security measures have been properly investigated by police control authorities. Police control authorities have assessed the police's misstep in the so-called FAMU case. Responsible police officers acted in this case contrary to the instructions of the commander of the measure and were also disciplined by written admonition and also by a temporary reduction in their salary. The preparation and implementation of the protection of the Chinese President and his escort represented a set of many measures, including in the light of previous events in France, Belgium and Germany, in connection with the announced first degree of threat to the Czech Republic by terrorism. Similar measures are implemented by the Police of the Czech Republic when the space in which the designated person is to move is provided, whose security requires greater security measures to be taken. [[9.40 hours]] I just want to remind you that the great security measures were implemented in the vicinity of the Congress Centre in 2000 at the International Monetary Fund meeting, in the vicinity of the Žofín Palace, in the presence of the Dalai Lama at the Forum 2000 conference. Controlled entry for a limited number of people on Hradčany Square and restrictions of entry to the Congress Centre when visiting US President Barack Obama in 2009. Measures on Hradčany Square during the meeting of Dmitrij Medveděv and Barack Obama in 2010. Limited entry to Hradčanské náměstí at the 2014 Eastern Partnership Summit. These were absolutely concrete actions where the police used similar means to ensure the safety of visitors, but of course they are also always about ensuring the security of citizens who are around these events. As regards the involvement of the Czech-Chinese cooperation chamber, this involvement was focused mainly on economic cooperation, identification of specific cooperation projects. Key documents signed during the visit of the Chinese President, including a statement on the conclusion of a strategic partnership or a memorandum on the joint formulation of a draft plan for bilateral cooperation, were agreed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic in close coordination with all the institutions involved. As regards the issue of incidents that occurred during the stay of the Chinese President. According to the Ministry of the Interior, only one offence was committed during the whole three-day security measure. It was a Tibetan flag theft, and two dozen misdemeanors took place. That means one felony and two dozen offenses. In part of the investigation in relation to the post-mortem persons - these were carolers - and the conflict with Chinese activists is said that there has been a mutual attack between groups by means of verbal attacks and signals, possibly a short-term physical contact, but the police have solved the separation of both groups. In this way, the purpose of the procedure, which was evaluated as sufficient due to the intensity of the struggle, was fulfilled. No person in this context has been further addressed by the police. Regarding questions concerning the activities of the Embassy of the People's Republic of China here in Prague. If it were proved that any representative office urged its compatriotic community, foreign nationals, to activities that do not comply with the laws of the Czech Republic, then naturally our party, we understand the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, would respond strongly. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs identified a member of the Embassy of the People's Republic of China who was in the Czech Television footage and claimed to be a member of the mission staff. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs subsequently asked China's embassies to explain its presence and activity on the ground and, at the same time, drew attention to the need to comply with the rules laid down in the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations as well as international practice. In response, the Embassy of China stated that the presence of its diplomat was not outside the scope of the relevant Convention, as it was intended to ensure the communication of relevant Chinese citizens with the Czech authorities. As regards questions relating to participation in individual protocol actions. I would like to state that the selection of members of the government who participate in the signing of individual documents during foreign visits is always selective. During the visit of the President of China, the Minister of Culture was not a member of the national delegation. On the guest's side was not represented by his restorative counterpart and negotiations with the nature of the case did not concern the ministry. No memorandum on cultural cooperation was signed during the state visit of the President of China. The area of culture was mentioned in the Declaration on the conclusion of a strategic partnership. However, it was mentioned very briefly, more briefly than other areas, such as the issue of cooperation in science and research or cooperation in agriculture, where the ministerial ministers were not present at the meeting either. The State Department confirmed that the Ministry of Culture was involved in preparing both documents. The Czech draft plan for bilateral cooperation, which follows the signed memorandum, contains specific inputs and incentives from the Ministry of Culture. honourable Member, honourable Members. I have devoted myself to several specific headings which have been mentioned in the framework of Mrs Němcová's interpelation. I was based on the documents I received from the Ministry of the Interior, which I received from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in connection with the visit of the President of the People's Republic of China here in the Czech Republic. So much so at this point all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u25	I thank Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. Mrs Miroslava Němcová is still reporting for the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u26	Thank you again for the floor. I thank you for this answer, which, I must admit, is a little more comprehensive than the one I received in writing, and also because I am here, or because I have received in writing, an unobtrusive answer, considered such a poor answer, so I asked that it be transferred to the premises of the Chamber of Deputies and we could discuss it and at least in this way get some more specific answers from the Prime Minister. So let me zoom in on that. In my interview, I asked about four circles relating to the visit of the Chinese President to the Czech Republic. In the meantime, it's been three months. This thing seems to have lost its charge, and it is also losing public interest in what actually happened in those days, but I still think that since the subject has already been opened, it is also supposed to be closed in some sense. The first issue I asked the Prime Minister about was President Miloš Zeman's statement on Chinese television, where he said - quote: There were very bad relations between the former government of the Czech Republic - I stress the former government of the Czech Republic - because this government was very submissive under pressure from the United States and the European Union. Now we are an independent country and the creation of our policy is based on our own interests. I asked the Prime Minister whether he had dealt with the President during the preparation of the visit and tuned foreign policy together, because every expression of the country's top representatives means determining the direction of our foreign policy. There was not a word in the answer I received in writing to this question. Secondly, I asked if Lubomír Zaorálek dealt with the President. Not a word in a written reply. So today I learned that the Minister of Foreign Affairs had dealt with the President before visiting the Chinese President. That he dealt with him on issues that may concern some degree of our interests, Chinese interests, but I certainly understood that the President did not introduce the Minister of Foreign Affairs to how he would build his performances and how he would present them. That is, by finally being a free country and finally independently determining what is and is not our concern. Now, the Prime Minister here has reminded us of the fundamental faults in the twenty-five-year-olds of our society, i.e. joining NATO, joining the European Union. And I think that if he insists that these were positive acts in the life of the Czech Republic, then he should immediately, after the President of the Republic actually questioned them, so he, as Prime Minister, was responsible for foreign policy or government as a whole, he should immediately reserve himself against what he chose as the output of the President of the Republic. It didn't happen that way. We only hear it today in the House at three months' distance, when I'm afraid almost nobody cares anymore. I want to say, however, that the Prime Minister has missed the chance to stomp on and say clearly what is the interest of the Czech Republic and what is not, even considering that he might not have done a good dot at the Castle, but I think he should not play for this. That he should care about what is in the interests of the Czech Republic. So much for that point 1, what she represented during the visit, or how she was framed by President Miloš Zeman's words. [[9.50 hours]] In this context, it must be pointed out that she probably doesn't just fall from the sky, that somewhere such an expression had to be taken, there is no way I think the President of the Republic just brought it up. He was following something, and someone had to advise him on the direction of this statement. It brought me to this, who might advise him, what I learned from open sources, that, on the proposal of the castle chancellor Mr. Mynář and Mr.Nejedlý's advisor, Mr. Miloš Zeman became the official advisor to the Czech President Miloš Zeman, I don't know if I'm going to say it exactly, Ming Jianming, and it is written in public sources about his kinship with the influential Chinese army clan, and it is not only mentioned in our Czech comments, but he writes about it for example. and National Interest Security Magazine. So I guess it's interesting to watch what the President of the Republic says, who he's surrounded by. And if I have also read that this name of the Lord, again I apologize if I say it well, Ťien Mingo, that it was written somewhere, that it was not much to say, that China was rather nervous about it, because perhaps he is the son or grandson of an important military representative in China, and he is still such a somewhat mysterious person to remain, and his interests are to remain hidden somewhere, then I thought I would at least learn from the Prime Minister at least a hint of what I am saying here. Because I'm not prying classified information out of him, I'm not getting under the skin of what only he knows because he has access to other types of information than I do. I only ask about the public resources, and I thought that the Prime Minister, in the seriousness of the subject, would dare more and describe the context a little bit deeper. If he didn't do it, I have to do it. As far as security is concerned, the second circuit was to secure a Chinese visit to the capital city of Prague. I agree that there have been various serious meetings of international institutions in the past, there have been influential Heads of State or the most influential Heads of State, but I remember for example. to visit US President George Bush Jr. and Barack Obama. As in the case of George Bush, a younger ordinary citizen, I was not limited to almost nothing, I walked the streets of Prague, just as I needed, on Wenceslas Square, where his speech took place, even though it was protected by some barrier, but in any case half of Wenceslas Square was not unlocked, so that no one could be allowed there. I remember visiting Barack Obama, where at that time as a representative of the Chamber of Deputies, but along with me and the ordinary citizens, I got to the castle square. It is true that there were checks that we had to go through the security frames, that this ensured the security of Barack Obama and allowed him to perform in front of the Prague panorama and to tell the world about the news, but we could normally come there. There were no such terrible maneuvers as in the case of the Chinese President, when actually from Hradčany Square, we know what it looked like, people were driven out etc. I also asked in this context what was the real role of Mr Jaroslav Tvrdík, because there is no point in hiding that she was influential. Yes, he's at the head of some chamber, I don't know, business friendship, Czech-Chinese. Yes, I respect that, such a position, such chambers in the Czech Republic are certainly many and their representatives, like groups of friends of the Chamber of Deputies, are invited to visit our country by someone to whom they, by being friends of the groups, give their relationship, so they are invited to do so. I understand that, to some extent, these groups are also involved in preparing such peak visits. But what took place in the case of the engagement of this group, it impressed me that it organized the whole visit, more Czech-Chinese group of Mr. Tvrdík than the government itself. I would almost say that the Czech-Chinese group, Mr Nejedlý, and here the Chairman of the CEOC Ming Jienming board, were the main figures who probably secured it, and probably the entire Chinese embassy with them. And this is the third circuit that I have covered my questions in my written interpelation, i.e. the role of the Chinese Embassy in Prague when visiting the Chinese President. I asked the Prime Minister directly if he saw the footage on TV. Now it was not described in the written reply, now in the supplementary oral reply he described that the carolers who were passing by were actually not attacked by Chinese activists, that it was just a push and a little bit teased there and the police separated them, and thus everything happened normally. So I was not impressed with television. I felt that the older lady, who was brutally driven there, was attacked by the gentleman on the tram, the cameramen, the trick-or-treaters, so I felt that the activity was definitely not such an attack between them that the older lady was throwing herself at the Chinese defenders of the communist idea, but that she normally went there with the Tibetan flag, and that was enough as an excuse to attack her. So this statement that it was actually a mutual struggle, and it's not really knowing who and how he provoked them, so there's no way I'm taking it because I have eyes and I've seen the footage on TV. I will not be convinced that these organized groups, which I also ask, intervened against Czech citizens in the Czech Republic. After all, about the fact that the protesters were organized, about which some servers brought information, I will name IHNED or ECHO 24, which quoted the words of one of the participants of the seminar that took place a few days before the Chinese President arrived at the Chinese Embassy. Quote: We met on Friday at the Chinese Embassy in Prague, where we were to receive instructions to welcome and support the Chinese President. The recruitment took place through various and unofficial organizations, Chinese employees of Huawei or associations, such as literary, association guides and others. Each group of ten had a leader. From the head of the consular department, we have been warned about sensitive topics such as Tibet or human rights. We were given instructions on how to behave when someone was protesting the visit. The demonstratives are to scream, not to be afraid to lay hands on them, but, if possible, not to hurt people, to tear the flags down. End of quote. The embassies were to equip the embassies with flags, banners, various sirens, and simply everything that would help to intervene such organized ten-member groups that each of their leaders had, so that these groups could intervene against the Czech citizens and their words either shout them out, but, if possible, not hurt them, but raise their hands, in any case, and not allow the Czech citizens to show themselves in the territory of their own country as they want and as they feel they need to be. On what I wrote in this interview, on these words about organizing those fights through the Chinese embassy, the Prime Minister did not say, better said, I can show it here for you. [[shows the sheet in A4 format]] My questions have the range of almost one printed page. The answer to this point has a range of 2.5 lines of the Prime Minister in that written form. I didn't get any answers in writing to whether he knew about the organization of these groups, if, and certainly has analysts both the Office of the Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, he got this information from public sources, as I quote them here from public sources, so if they immediately dealt with the Chinese embassy. [[10.00 hours]] Now all I'm hearing is the one isolated case that since I mean the Czech Television reportér, or now I don't know which show, he made it matter to make it clear the functioning of the consular representative, who was simply, forgive me the word, caught, couldn't get out of it anymore, couldn't lie out of it, he himself says he's a consular representative, it's obvious that the Číňan are organizing against the Czech citizens. Well, since things didn't work out any differently, the Prime Minister here seems to touch him a little bit and admit that something was going on, but that the Minister of Foreign Affairs sent some kind of not-not-not-not-not-not-not-no note, but some request to express the Chinese embassy and the Chinese embassy told us that everything was okay. Thus, although the written form was insufficient, it is still insufficient to supplement the oral form that I have heard here, because the main thing is that there is evidence that the Číňan were organized against the Czech citizens, which is in no way affected by the Prime Minister. I think the steps against the Chinese embassy were supposed to be completely different. If I now recall the rhetoric not only of the Prime Minister, not only of the Czech Republic, of the Czech representatives against how Brusel forces us some ideas about how our society should look, how it should be governed, what everything is to be adopted as laws, or not, and we are very critically opposed to it, I do not understand when we are able to tell what is or is not our concern, so how do we let these organized groups act inside against Czech citizens, that seems completely incomprehensible to me. And I reject the fact that the Czech Government could do so against the main duty it has, i.e. defending the interests of Czech citizens. I think that this chapter is in no way closed to me, that is, a chapter that concerns the activities of the Chinese Embassy. I understand that this is a hot topic, that few people want to do it because it is such a poking into very powerful structures, very rich structures, and anyone who tries not only to see it, but a little bit to look into it, so of course they come across a huge wall of silence, overshadowing, barriers that he has built here in writing, and then in the oral Prime Minister, he does not want to look at the situation of what the 2013 security report describes about strengthening influence - now I would like to quote precisely, not to say anything wrong. The BIS report, I quote: "In the case of China's power and its intelligence services, 2014 was marked by the emphasis on influence infiltration into Czech political and state structures and the collection of political intelligence, all with the active help of some Czech citizens, including politicians and civil servants." So there's evidence that something's happening here. A visit to the Chinese president just lit it up. The spotlight was... These events were suddenly illuminated and became clear not only for BIS personnel, but for all who saw the visit and judged it a bit. As for Huawei, which I mentioned here that she was hosting some, or she was among those recruitment units that were supposed to protect the Chinese President here, I asked a question - and that was not answered in writing, nor today - about what the Prime Minister knows about this company. If she knows she's been eliminated by Australia because of a security risk from a tender to build a nationwide high-speed Internet network. If the Prime Minister knows that the Committee on Intelligence of the American House of Representatives called this telecommunications equipment manufacturer a security risk in 2012 and recommended that he be closed down for entry into the US market. Indeed, Huawei withdrew from the US in response to the suspicion of cyberespionage. It was similar in Canada. And now here we see massive advertising and its support by CEFC and companies, without a doubt, Mr Tvrdík and his other groups in our territory. I asked because what I can find out is only information from public sources. I have found this information, read it, written it down, told the Prime Minister that I am asking him to explain to me whether when Američan, Kanaďan, Australan see security risks in this company, fear cyberespionage, do not want to admit them to any high-speed Internet contract, and suddenly our arms are wide open in the Czech Republic, so if the risk has passed for any miraculous reasons. In 2012, 2013 for the rich western half of the world, that was a risk, and suddenly it's not a risk to us? I didn't get that two months ago, or when I got the answer, not a single word of answer today. So that's the second thing I consider absolutely fundamental. And I didn't get an answer. That was the third circle of questions. I called the fourth circuit in a written interpelration a protocol to secure a visit. And I must say that I was interested in this, that once again I only registered the special theatre that took place at Prague Castle when signing various memorandums of cooperation in all possible areas. Suddenly I noticed that it was signing some more extensive, broader memorandum of cooperation, which meant that culture should have been mentioned. I think the Czech Press Office said exactly when it said it sounded like this: both parties confirm to formulate a bilateral cooperation programme, the first proposals the governments will exchange according to the text of the memorandum in June this year. Perhaps it would be good if we learned what the first proposals were, because today is the last day of June, so probably the governments have already exchanged them. And specific projects could cover up to 15 areas, such as the use of nuclear energy, the development of road, rail, airport infrastructure, agricultural technologies, sport and culture. And that culture was what was said in the public sphere in various media. And then I noticed a speech by the Minister of Culture who said he didn't know anything about it and that nothing was discussed with him, that his ministry was not involved in any of these activities. Now I know it did. But I simply cannot accept the situation that immediately after the visit takes place, comments are being made. And it seemed to me that Minister Herman was a bit offended at the time and disdained: well, there's a sign at the castle, there's some mention of culture, but neither I nor my office know anything about it. Okay, I understand that it's been three months, you've sort of tuning it all out, and you've created this fairy tale that you're gonna tell us how it was actually all right. But the first reaction is evidence of something. And I asked in my interview about the first reaction. That the Minister of Culture could not go to the Castle, I think it was given especially by asking here in the House, refreshing your memory, and suggesting the memory of 80,000 Tibetan monks who were murdered by the Číňan in the 1950s. And then followed the reaction of the Chinese Ambassador, or her deputy, who then visited the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with an urgent complaint, namely Minister Herman. And the deputy said that we have a quote before the Chinese President visits: "This act may harm not only the President's visit, but also the overall positive direction of current relations. " This was the statement of a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who made this information available. I understand that if the Minister of Culture here in the Chamber of Deputies decided to honor the memory of 80,000 Tibetan monks, so that the door was closed to him at the Prague Castle, especially during the Chinese visit. Maybe they're opening up again now, and he'll be able to go back there in some negotiations. But it was pretty clear at the time. And hanging on our noses about the fact that the Ministry of Culture was actually being dealt with, but because it wasn't so important, it's in some package of all kinds of cooperation, so that it'll somehow hide in it, and the Minister knew about it, so I'm not going to let this story get forced into my head. This seems to me that it is not worthy of either party - the Minister of Culture, of the other party - of the Prime Minister, of the third party - of me as a representative of the Chamber of Deputies. [[10.10 hours]] That's how much I react to what I've learned. If I were to sum it up, I consider it absolutely vital what he is doing here, perhaps the right word is acting out, the embassy of the People's Republic of China, how power he usurps, how much he enters our country's internal affairs. And it doesn't seem to me that the government has done anything with this situation in a satisfactory way. The second conclusion is such a doubt about the business that - it was always stressed here, what a huge business it would be for the Czech Republic, what a wonderful thing it would bring us. We can see that even on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, the most frequent visits are from the People's Republic of China. We just approved two others on the Organizing Committee. It must be said that the investments of the People's Republic of China in the Czech Republic between 2003 and 2015 represented 0.36 - 0.36 percent of all foreign investments! Germany 21.9 percent. If it doesn't strike anybody as being disproportionate, that the circus that was around the Chinese visit, that it's the entity that invests the most here, most of all that depends on our relationship, then I'm convinced that's not the case. But I'd like to leave that to the economists, too. Perhaps it is a reflection in the future that it is good to strengthen investment. Each state is interested in allowing its business sphere to participate in some overlap in other spheres where it does not yet have such opportunities. I understand that very well. But it can't be at the expense of us being vassals and somebody whistling both internal politics and how we're supposed to act on foreign issues. In these foreign matters, I mentioned just by saying Miloš Zeman. In internal politics, I referred to what he is doing here, better said, under the silent approval of our government, the Chinese Embassy in Prague. I do not agree with this policy of our government. I think it should be true that relationships must be balanced. I'm the master, you're the master. It just can't work any other way. And the Czech government is elected by Czech citizens to defend their interests and cannot stand by as they are attacked physically and so on on the streets by a group of Chinese embassies. In writing, the Prime Minister did not disclose the FAMU context. Now he's touched them so easily. Unfortunately, this case also closes to such a short list of silences, because events three months ago are almost as if from prehistoric times, as if no one cares anymore. In the meantime, so many important other things have happened. But I think that these are indications that the system of government is not in the hands of our citizens, that is, the security of our citizens, and that it will allow another power to enter the internal affairs of our countries in a way that is unacceptable to me. That is why I would like to see what I have mentioned here, no matter how much more information about how the Chinese warriors were organized, the Prime Minister would still be here to elaborate. Also the fact about Huawei, i.e. security risks, if the Prime Minister would still touch it and explain to us all the information I have from public sources. And maybe he'll tell me that they're not true at all and that it's all different. But I'd like to see what he's covered up with silence, and now he's raised the lid, and he's made a statement about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u27	I thank Mrs Miroslava Němcová and the Prime Minister, if he wishes, for the debate. [[He doesn't want to.]] The Minister of Culture is reporting for the debate. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u28	Thank you, Mr President. My colleague, my colleagues, thank you for mentioning Mrs Němcová, who was concerned with culture. As the Prime Minister said, certain documents for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs concerning the general cooperation in the cultural area between the Czech Republic and China were supplied, but these were not specific matters directly related to the Chinese visit. At least that's not how I was informed. But the standard cooperation between resorts and in the field of culture is ongoing, so of course the documents were supplied. I expressed myself in the sense that it was quoted here, precisely because I was not directly involved in the visit and I was not addressed in that matter. Because there was some information about my so-called. anti-Chinese attitudes, so I like to take this opportunity to reiterate that I have no anti-Chinese attitudes. On the contrary, I consider Chinese culture to be respectable, deeply rooted in spiritual traditions, and I like to participate in, for example, Chinese ballets, theatre performances. It is true that they are mostly organized by exile groups, because art based on the spiritual traditions of ancient or ancient China in the current People's Republic of China is not entirely free to operate. It is mainly a theatre performance by Shen Yun, which is very connected with the Falun Gong movement. And that's another big issue. I have had quite an intensive contact with the representatives of this Falun Gong movement since I was Director of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, and I receive regular information about the truly brutal violations of human rights in China, organ transplantation and restrictions against members of this movement. And that was the reason for my critical attitudes. I believe that there is a need to fully promote economic exchange, tourist exchange, cultural exchange, that is absolutely okay. I am very pleased that Chinese film companies are coming and filming with us companies, but it is simply not possible to postpone the issue of human rights, it is not possible to forget it and that is the core of my attitudes. That means I am not interested in any anti-Chinese attitudes, just as I did not take any anti-Czechoslovak positions before 1989, as it tried to impose on me at that time State Security. I spoke on this issue at my meeting with President Zeman, who asked some questions in this context. And when we were just talking about issues related to the persecution of the Falun Gong movement, the President expressed an interest in literature documenting the persecution of members of this movement. I supplied these materials to the President, and the President told me in our interview that he would study them and possibly be involved in the matter. Which I consider a very positive signal. And if it helped even one person to alleviate the repression of the current Communist Chinese leadership, that would be just fine. So I thank you for what has been said here for your interest in these important things, and I also considered it important to say my positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u29	Thank you, Minister Herman. Anyone else for the debate? If not, I think the honourable Member is proposing a rejection of the answer. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u30	I'm thinking of how to close this interpellation because it's clear that it's gonna stay open, no matter what happens in the House. The Prime Minister refused to answer very clear, specific questions. I think they were formulated so clearly that if he wanted, he could come and answer. It's obvious he doesn't want to. I just have to take note of that, it's not in my power to convince him, break him, force him. It's his responsibility. I can only say that I am completely dissatisfied with the Prime Minister's attitude like this, and I must conclude from this that he really wants to watch whatever the President is doing and whatever the Chinese embassy is doing, so that he is not going to burn his fingers with it. [[10.20 hours]] Thank you for the speech of the Minister of Culture, who has touched rather on the aspect which he has dealt with for many years and is related to his appearance in the House, that is, the human rights one. He didn't explain much about the cooperation. He said there was some evidence, but it's obvious he wasn't allowed to go to the castle because he provoked the memorial service here, so the door closed to him, and with all the signatures, however general they were, he wasn't allowed to be, even though his resort was involved. I think what he said here about the persecutions of uncomfortable groups in China has its weight, too. If, for example, We know from public sources that in 2013 2,400 people were executed in China, in 2007 it was 6,500 people and that 80 percent of the executions in death row signed voluntary consent to the surrender of their organs, so I think that what the Minister said here should also be taken into account in the context of the whole visit and of the huge exhilaration of some of our country's representatives. It's probably an important sentence that Mao Tung said to the address of the executions: head is not chives, when it chops off, it doesn't grow. And the Mao Tung is still looking down on Tiananmen Square, all of them towards it... most or probably the whole communist Chinese representation still has it as the enormous authority to which they claim to refer. So, ladies and gentlemen, knowing that the head isn't a chives when it chops off, it doesn't grow anymore, I'm gonna leave this interpelation open. I will not propose any resolution by the Chamber of Deputies because our vote cannot mask the weakness of the Prime Minister and his government in this failure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u31	I understand that according to § 112 para. 5 you're not suggesting the Prime Minister's refusal to respond. But the Prime Minister is still reporting for the debate. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u32	Thank you. Madam, honourable Members, I would really like to make a few more comments before the Chamber of Deputies will vote on the interpelation of Mrs Němcová. I really tried to get honest information about the Chinese President's visit, and I tried to inform the Chamber of Deputies. It was a top visit to the highest representative of the People's Republic of China here in Prague. He came at the invitation of the President of the Czech Republic. The visit was provided by the Office of the President of the Czech Republic and also, as is standard in such matters, by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic. So it really was a standard official visit to the country's president, who is the second largest economy in the world, the president of the country, who is a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, and the country's president, with whom we are trying to develop trade and political relations intensively. I believe that both the scope of the adoption of the Chinese President here in Prague and the scope of the security measures were consistent with the importance of this visit and was broadly consistent with the security environment in which we are moving in today's world. I'm afraid we just can't afford to be naive. And I remembered when the MP here was talking about her walking around during her visit to the American President here in Prague... It would be beautiful if we could afford such things in the future, so that there really is no risk of attacks, so that there is no risk of terrorist attacks. But I'm afraid the world's changed a lot over the last few years. He's changed to worse. I'm not happy about it either. I'd rather we didn't have to take such extensive security measures. I'd rather there was no attack at the airport in Turkey. And now I don't want to say that the security measures were primarily due to terrorist attacks. But whenever such a high visit comes, when the President arrives, whether it is the United States, China, whether it is Russia, or perhaps if a German Chancellor comes, we simply have to consider the role and weight of these people who play in world politics, because wherever they perform, they obviously act as high-ranking representatives of their countries, and they also take risks. They risk being targeted by a terrorist attack. And I would not want the Czech Republic to underestimate anything in the event of such visits. So it was one of those dimensions. Maybe it wasn't the main dimension, but it was there. Just an effort to ensure the maximum security of a high constitutional officer who has arrived for an official visit to the Czech Republic. Second thing. I mentioned the statistics, and I mentioned it on purpose. One felony or one suspicion of a crime that the police are saving, that's one thing, about 20 infractions. When we look at the media depiction of this thing, the public debate it raised, how much there was by interpellation to me here in the Chamber of Deputies, I feel that the reality is a little different than what was created in a virtual environment. If there were massive attacks, if there were massive conflicts, the police would have to file more criminal charges, there would have to be much more offences. The reality is different. I have no reason not to trust the police that she didn't do where she should have been, or that she might have acted selectively. The police must defend compliance with the law and it doesn't matter if the law violates a Czech citizen or whether it is violated by a Chinese citizen or, for example, a United States citizen or any other country. So this is where the police were acting. And in my opinion, the extent of the crime identified and the extent of the offences identified is not large enough to suggest that there was something extremely unacceptable on the streets of the capital or that there may have been some widespread clashes between supporters and opponents of the Chinese President during his visit here in Prague. I think that in this regard, even though there were protestors in the streets who came to express their political opinion, let's say their negative political opinion about the presence of the Chinese President in Prague, so there were people in the streets, especially the Číňan, who came to welcome their president, so the police managed to maintain security. That's what I think is one of the primary tasks of the police that we logically want her to do. The situation hasn't gone out of control. The situation didn't develop chaoticly. The police have secured security. In the event of conflict in some situations, they were able to separate the supporters of the different opinions in time, and that is the role that the police should play in democracy. So I believe that there have been no use by the police of instruments that would be disproportionate. And I firmly believe that any suspicion, any misdemeanors will be consistently and fairly investigated so as to respect the law and to respect the rules. The same must, of course, be observed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in order to respect both the rules and representation, the embassy of States here in the Czech Republic, and it is not possible for any of their activities to be directed, for example. against respect for public order in our country or against the rights that our citizens have, including the right to exercise the right of assembly and freedom of expression here in the Czech Republic. Even the scope of the contractual documents that have been signed, the agreements that have been signed do not therefore exceed the scope, the level that is usual for other countries of the European Union. If a strategic partnership agreement was signed during a visit to the Chinese President, we are once again just one of the other countries that has signed such an agreement. I've been visiting China in the past few days. I was trying to support our exports there. And right before me, German Chancellor Angela Merkelová was visiting China. She did not come alone, but she came with several German government ministers because Germany and China have a German-Chinese government dialogue, i.e. that representatives of the Chinese and German governments meet once a year at a joint meeting and deal with German-Chinese relations. [[10.30 hours]] Thus, the fact that we have such intense political contacts does not get out of the way of how active the Brit, the Francouz or the Němec are, and I also remind you of a visit to the Chinese President now in Poland. Once again, the reception was at a completely comparable level to the Chinese President's visit here in Prague. I want to refuse to hide anything, to suppress anything. I have tried to convey here all the information that I have received as Prime Minister on the basis of the relevant interpelation, and I leave at the discretion of the Chamber of Deputies, how they will stand up to this interpelation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u33	Now Mr Michal Kučera's factual comment and then Mrs Miroslava Němcová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u34	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I must refuse to defend the massive ones in the quotation marks of the security measures that sound from the Prime Minister's mouth, so it also sounded from the mouth of the Minister of the Interior of Chovanec, and the defense of the massive measures was that the security situation had changed. I mean, it's often likened to Barack Obama's last visit to the President of the United States. I mean, President Barack Obama came here after September 11, 2001, when three thousand people died after the attacks on New York, he arrived at the top of Al Qaeda, he was on top of Usáma Bin Ládin, he was on top of Saddám Husajn. I don't think the security situation has changed so dramatically. But what has changed is the attitude of this government to how it will approach these things. That means the security situation hasn't changed so dramatically, but our government's view has changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u35	Thank you for keeping time on the point of fact and Mrs Miroslava Němcová still in the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u36	Thank you. The Prime Minister probably did not listen when I spoke here a moment ago and I said that I wanted to keep this issue open and I do not want it to be decided by a vote in the Chamber of Deputies because, given how vaguely he stood up for a written answer, how he avoided the painful issues that I raised here, no vote will make it clear. So I do not wish the House to vote. I would not like to interpret it the way Vice-President Vojtěch Filip tried to do it, i.e. that I have no objection to the answer, or that I do not want to vote against it. I do not agree with the answer, but I do not think that the vote at this point can bring about any conclusion to the questions that the Prime Minister is avoiding. On the contrary, it would be a confirmation for him that he doesn't have to do anything anymore and that things have closed and we can check them out as a thank God solved. And I just don't want to contribute to that. At the same time, I was also worried about the last assurance of the Prime Minister, when after three months at the Chinese embassy, he said: The Ministry of Foreign Affairs should guard against... So I imagined that the next day the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because they saw what I saw, they acted, they sent notes, they just did something. If I now learn that it should do something, it merely confirms my theory that this visit was directed to suit those groups that will profit from it politically or economically, but in the interests of Czech citizens, their position on the foreign scene was in no way beneficial. Well, that's my final word for this interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u37	Thank you, Mrs Miroslava Němcová, and I am against the fact that I have acted against the Rules of Procedure in some way. I shall state paragraph 112 (a) of this Article. 5: There shall be a debate on the answers to the written question on the agenda of the House meeting. On a proposal from the Interpelling Member, the House may adopt a favourable or disagreeable position in response to the interpellation by a resolution. In the event of a disagreement, the Government member shall prepare a new reply within 30 days. I state, and you can check on the screen record, that I merely stated that Mrs Miroslava Němcová did not propose a dissenting opinion pursuant to § 112 para. 5. Then I followed the Rules of Procedure exactly! Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u38	Mr Vice-President, you have just said that you reserve yourself against the accusation that you have not acted under the Rules of Procedure. But I don't remember making any such accusations here. I merely said that I did not agree with the interpretation, that I like the Prime Minister's reply and that I do not request a dissenting vote. I said I didn't like it and that the vote couldn't decide. There was not a single word about whether or not you are following the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u39	Thank you. Since no motion for a resolution has been proposed, I am done. We will continue by interpelling number three on the agenda for today's meeting, and this is the interpelling of Mr Zdeněk Ondráček on the matter of foster care when he disagrees with the interpelling of Minister Michaela Marksová. Even this response has been interrupted, and that is until the presence of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová, and since the Minister is not here, he remains interrupted. It is also Mrs Markéta Adamová's interpellation to Minister Milan Chovanc. Ms Markéta Adamová is absent, pursuant to § 112 para. Therefore, there is no debate on it and that is the end of the question. The next item is the interpelation of Mr Petr Bendl to the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka and it is an interpelation on the case of Najmr. Interpelation shall be submitted together with the reply as printing 822. Please note that Minister Jurečka is not here, but Mr Bendl is reporting for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, colleagues, Minister Jurečka has long avoided contact with the Chamber of Deputies and often does not participate in the Chamber of Deputies. They are among those who even have a lower participation in the Chamber of Deputies and its vote than, for example, the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic has something to say about the extent to which he is engaged in the thematics which he should be primarily engaged in, and this is Czech legislation and an improvement in the environment for farmers' functioning. I am this interpelation on Mr Najmr's case, which I will at least partially explain, and I will have to leave it open before the Minister comes to the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies in the framework of the interpelee, I sent this interpelee through the President of the Chamber of Deputies last year. I sent an interview saying that in a natural way, the Office of the Government will always be aware of it and will receive my interpelation, or the interpellation of the Member will always be given to the relevant minister. The Minister of Agriculture did not reply to the Members, namely to me, the Interpeller, but sent answers to the Office of the Government, which is only an entry point, and he sent a reply to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, but not to the person who interpelled. So I started looking for where the interpelation was, and why the Ministry did not answer me in due time, and then I learned that the Ministry had sent the answers to a completely different place than where it belonged, that is, to an interpelling Member. It already seemed quite suspicious to me that the Minister of Agriculture and his team at the office who brought him there did not know that he was to answer to the relevant interpelling Member. [[10.40 hours]] The case is for you who, I believe, have not read it, but I will simply describe it. The landowner decided to terminate the lease relationship with one tenant and signed the lease with another farmer. The farmer applied for a deposit in the LIS, which was made, and the original tenant transferred his business or his business to his son during the raining of his notice period. And the Martyrium began, because the original tenant claimed that actually the relationship, or virtually. His son claimed that no relationship had ended and that they had a further right of use to the property he had already received, I will say, the original tenant's statement. The Ministry has dealt with the case since 2014. In the meantime, the one who got the statement was harvesting the grain of the one who had the lease signed in 2014. And in the end, you might wonder, or maybe you shouldn't wonder, the Department of Agriculture has taken the side of the original tenant with an argument that's interesting. And I quote directly from the answer of the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka: "To your question it can be said that landowners could not give valid statements to a person who was no longer a tenant of their land, virtually. their parts of the soil blocks, since the person transferred it, his company, to his son." I think it's an obvious attempt at least to cheat. And because the case has been dragged for one and a half years and it can be almost direct to be approached in this way by landowners and other farmers who have received a lease in good faith, have been registered in LPIS, have grown grain, in the meantime it is being harvested by someone else and a year and a half it takes the Ministry of Agriculture to decide, and finally it will be true who, in my deep conviction, does not have a lease at this time or does not have it from the moment he has been fired - it is scandalous. And I think the Minister of Agriculture here should explain it in front of everyone and tell people who move in agriculture how he wants to do it in the future when he can't decide for a year and a half, and then decide for the benefit of someone who doesn't already have a lease. Thank you. And I ask that this interpelation be interrupted until the Minister of Agriculture intends to attend a written interpelation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u41	Okay, I understand your proposal. Have a good morning. This means that we will be voting on this interpellation to be interrupted into the presence of the Minister of Agriculture. I am opening the vote and asking who agrees with this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 129, with 107 Members registered, for proposal 59, against 1. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been approved. The discussion of this interpelation has been suspended. I'll read the apologies that arrived today. Today, Mr Jaroslav Zavadil apologizes for health reasons, further to 12 o'clock Mrs Golasowská, from 11 to 13 o'clock for work reasons Mr David Kasal apologises, from 14.30 o'clock for personal reasons Mrs Bohdalová, from 10.15 to 12 o'clock for work reasons Mr Soukup and then on 30. 6. on account of illness, Mr Andrle apologizes. We'll proceed to another interpellation. Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka responded to Mr Miroslav Grebeníček's interview on the lack of information provided by the Prime Minister on 21 January and 22 March 2016 to the Chamber of Deputies on Government activities and to a request for information on the alibi attitude of the Prime Minister and the Government as a whole to identify and address the real causes of the migration crisis, to prevent the causes and take forward effective measures to manage security risks to Czech citizens. Interpelation shall be submitted together with the reply as a print of 824. I am opening the debate and registering Mr Grebeníček's application. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 21 January this year, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka spoke here in the House with information from the Government of the Czech Republic on the migration crisis, which is a serious threat to Europe and therefore also to the Czech Republic. At that time, everything was said in the premiere. Among other things, the announcement that we are proven to be in the midst of the largest wave of refugees since the end of World War II. However, what was at that time staggered was the fact that the Prime Minister had completely lost sight of the causes of this crisis. He spoke for a long time only about the means the EU and the Czech Government want to face up to its consequences. But not to mention any, not only the migration crisis, its causes, and not to offer procedures and means to overcome it, this must always be seen as a fundamental logical and factual error, and this is a policy that should lead a country worse than laziness. All the more so, the idea that the Prime Minister presented to the House at the time was rather comical. However, the Prime Minister repeated the same mistake at the House's ongoing meeting on 22 March 2016. Again, not a word about the real causes of the migration crisis and not a word about their resolution. Just a lot of talk about late firefighting, half-steps and the means it's gonna cost. Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Vojtěch Filip, then, drew the Prime Minister's attention to this repeated serious lack of government information and called for a response. Any migration crisis can be resolved, and I quote his words only when the causes of the crisis are resolved. I therefore ask that the Government's position in the debate be supplemented by the resolution of the causes of the crisis. To my surprise, even after a direct call for information, the Prime Minister remained silent. He did not give the requested information to the House. This was also the reason why I decided to ask him to provide this information in writing. As you could see from the Prime Minister's reply to my intervention, which you have at your disposal as Parliamentary press, I did not receive a qualified reply, but a comical message reminiscent of a little intelligent attempt at some kind of political training for the team. Instead of qualified information or qualified information on the causes of the migration crisis and instead of communicating what measures the government is taking or taking to prevent and manage security risks to Czech citizens, the Prime Minister has provided me with ideological phrases and a whole range of completely false claims. [[10.50 hours]] koneckonců all, President Bush of the United States expressed similar ideas in Prague in 2002. They are also based on remarkable knowledge. I was very amused by the fact that the North Atlantic Alliance was established in 1949 because of the Warsaw Treaty, which, as is widely known, was established in May 1955. Bush was obviously of a different opinion. First the Warsaw Treaty was established and then the North Atlantic Pact. Too škoda he didn't bring with him at least one average-educated primary school history teacher out of a few hundred of his advisors, who might have told him what it was like on the plane and what the sequence actually looks like. He would probably learn that what started in early 1946 the Prime Minister of the British Government Winston Churchill in Fulton, America, began with the formation of the North Atlantic Alliance on April 4, 1949 and continued after March 31, 1954, when the Alliance rejected the Soviet Union's request to join NATO, and Churchill publicly admitted that at the end of World War II he intended to arm German soldiers against the Soviet Union, culminated in May 1955 by incorporating and re-arming the post-fascist Federal Republic of Germany. This January, European Council Chief Donald Tusk said that the European Union has only two months to deal with the refugee crisis, otherwise the Schengen system can collapse and the European Union can end as a political project. A few months later, the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, said: We overreacted; people have had enough of Europe. He also added that many are already overeating all those standards and directives, when Brusel is completely unnecessarily interfering with the competence of national parliaments. No doubt it serves everyone to honor if he is able to admit his mistake. The Czech Prime Minister has not yet found the courage to do so. So with some hope, I prefer to see Pope František's speech, who recently said that the West should ask itself the consequences of exports of Western democracy to territories such as Iraq and Libya. He added: Faced with Islamic terrorism, we should rather ask how too Western model democracy was exported to countries such as Iraq, where a strong government had previously worked, or Libya, where the tribal structure survives. We cannot go on like this without taking these cultures into account. To the question of whether Europe should accept so many migrants, Pope František replied: It is not possible to open its own door to irrationality. More important, though, is to ask why there are so many refugees now. And he called war, lack of development, and the world's economic system that fell into the adoring of money. Of course, conservative behavior is expected of the Pope. But he says how bad capitalism is and how fundamental changes must be made. He is therefore a greater critic of the vices of existing capitalism than the Czech Sobotka Social Democracy or its coalition government. Yes, it is for me in this matter, and I am not hiding that I am a tolerant atheist, a contemporary inspiration not from the Czech Prime Minister, but from the Catholic Pope. At least US President Barack Obama acknowledged that the chaos in Libya was the result of the biggest mistake he made in his top position. He just didn't expect to rule the country after the overthrow of the government. Yes, another country is in ruins, millions of people's lives have fallen into chaos, and the crowds of refugees headed for Europe have become very dense. However, the same thing that Obama allegedly accidentally committed in Libya had happened before in Afghanistan and Iraq under very similar circumstances. It's happening in Syria today, too. When Gaddafi's regime was Kaddáfí, this was justified by an effort to protect Libya's civilian population from civil war. However, civil war is taking place there and there is a population fleeing to Europe. And just for the record, the United States is fighting a permanent war. President Obama, who allegedly wanted to change his predecessor's policy, fought more wars than Bush did. For Obama, the United States has waged or waged seven wars. No, I really don't know what he won the Nobel Peace Prize for. When the Prime Minister of the Czech Government, in January and then in connection with the call by the Vice-President of the House to negotiate on the migration crisis in March of this year, avoided answering a number of important questions, it was dishonest and, given the security interests of the Republic and the citizens, not very responsible, but I could then believe that the Prime Minister deliberately avoided answering those questions because he was afraid to answer them. I could have thought at the time that he wasn't talking about what he didn't want to lie about. In fact, it would not be the first or the last of the brave ones, of those who are in conflict of interest when they are to fulfil their obligations towards citizens and the Republic. Unfortunately, more often than is well, we are witnessing how some political businessmen prefer the commendation of their sponsors and protectors over the interest of Czech citizens in a secure Europe and a peaceful world, in a timely and consistent solution to the causes of the migration crisis. On the one hand, there is an undisputed interest among the citizens of our Republic in putting an end to the time of preparing coups, inciting wars and subsequent humanitarian disasters and the migration crisis, and on the other hand, there is the slave servility of many Czech politicians to those who trigger these crises and who threaten the security of Europe and the world. No, the way to address humanitarian disasters and migration crises and reduce security risks is not to bribe Turkey or to distribute refugee quotas or to pay fines and contributions for the sins of others. And the government and Prime Minister can't know that. Dozens to hundreds of billions of dollars a year have been invested in wars, coups, and arms exports, training and arming potential and real terrorists over the past two decades. And to face only the consequences, not to name and solve the causes means to count on these crises as a lasting reality for today if for the future. In reply to my written interview, the Prime Minister demonstrated the undignified role of the proverbial ostrich, which instead of finding real solutions puts its head in writing. Yes, the talk is and must be about the fact that migration waves coming to Europe have grown extremely strong and their nature is changing. And today, merely a politician who is completely irresponsible or just a man who is stupid and blindly loyal to his foreign protectors would deny that these threats arose or intensified as a result of force politics, aggressions and occupations organized by the United States and their group of willing. Yes, I am talking about superpower ambitions, aggressions and war crimes supported or co-organized by the Member States of the North Atlantic Pact, or if you want it to sound better, the North Atlantic Alliance. Certainly, when, in November 1990, a declaration was issued about the end of the Cold War following the successful completion of Vienna's disarmament negotiations between NATO States and the Warsaw Treaty -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u43	Ambassador, I'm sorry to enter your interpellation. Unfortunately it is 11 o'clock and at 11 o'clock we have a fixed OKD point, so I am forced to interrupt your interpelation and we will return to it at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u44	Mr President, I have no reason to oppose your approach.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u45	Thank you for your cooperation. I thank you and finish the morning block by interpelling. At 11 o'clock we have a fixed OKD discussion point, in any case standard is that in the first half of an hour may fall proposals for editing, changing the agenda of the meeting. This is Mr. Laudát. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u46	Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, I stress the "Deputy House" and the "President-in-Office," allow me to say, in retrospect, that there has been moderate progress with the coalition, but certainly not within the limits of the law regarding participation. Your turn is like drum music again, so it's all pause. And just because the President is excused, I would urge you to do something about the fact that various committees and subcommittees are being convened into the proper House programme. So this morning at 9 o'clock -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u47	I apologize for entering into your speech, Mr Member, but I will ask you to keep your voice down so that all of you, including me, understand what Mr Laudát is speaking. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u48	Thank you. I am speaking to you as the representative of the House's supreme leadership. At 9 a.m., President Böhnisch, ČSSD, convened the Committee on the Environment and at 9.30 a certain Mr Gabal subcommittee on defence and security policy and strategic concept of the Czech Republic. I don't know if the war's coming yet, that it's so urgent that it needs to be called into the proper House program. So much for a statement and a tough fifty-sixth urgent call: please prevent this from happening in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-001-219.u49	Thank you. We have already discussed this issue with the club presidents, in any case we will return to the Gremium and remind them that there will be no meeting of various committees and subcommittees during the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I wonder if anyone has a motion to change the agenda. I don't see anyone. In that case, I'm opening a fixed point for today's day, and that's it.
