ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u1	217. Information from the Prime Minister on the situation in the European Union following a referendum in the UK on the withdrawal from the European Union I ask that the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Bohuslav Sobotka, take the floor. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u2	Thank you. Good evening, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members. Let me speak to the Prime Minister's information on the situation in the European Union after the UK referendum. The result of the referendum on the withdrawal of Great Britain from the European Union is not a positive report for Europe or the Czech Republic. It is a decision that is very serious, and it seems that it is also a decision that is irreversible. At the same time, this is a decision with a huge human, political, economic and geopolitical impact. So far, we can't exactly estimate all the consequences of brexit or quantify them. It'll show the future more. The responsibility of the government I lead is to prepare and implement the Czech Republic through the period of change that is ahead of us, to ensure that stability remains guaranteed for our citizens, that prosperity and maximum security will be guaranteed for them. I believe that this is only possible within a single, strong and also stable European Union. Not outside of her. If we look at the main priorities that are ahead of us at this point: Firstly, I believe that the European Union must now demonstrate elementary unity and stability. Second, calmly and factually, we should also break up with the United Kingdom. Thirdly, we should concentrate on priorities that are important for our citizens, on economic growth, on employment, on social cohesion and, last but not least, on security. The decision of British citizens does not please me and I personally regret that Great Britain is leaving the European Union. It is a country that was a model of functioning and traditional Western democracy for us in times of communism. Our modern history was intertwined very significantly. During the occupation in Britain, BenešBenešův Czechoslovak exile government was established. Our airmen bravely helped defend Britain from Nazi attacks. Our soldiers often fought in various places in the world during World War II in British troops. After 1948 and also after 1968, many Czech and Slovak political refugees found a new home in the UK. Ladies and gentlemen, the United Kingdom has always supported our entry into NATO and has also supported our accession to the European Union. We have long understood the Brit, especially in terms of security issues, but also in terms of the protection of democracy and human rights. We Čech therefore considered it natural and logical that we now share membership of the European Union with the Brit. We have considered this to a large extent to complete our good relations with each other. That is why the decision of British citizens in the Czech Republic in a referendum is so important and so shocking at the same time. On the other hand, honourable Members, the British decision does not mean the end of the European Union. All the other 27 Member States have clearly confirmed on this Wednesday that they are interested in continuing this unique project of peaceful cooperation between European countries. And the fact that the Brit have decided to leave the European Union does not mean the end of relations and cooperation between the European Union and Great Britain. What happens next? In terms of sports terminology, the ball is now on the British side of the field. Great Britain must first officially announce its intention to withdraw from the European Union. Only then can we begin to negotiate. In doing so, we will discuss two things - the Treaty on Breakup Conditions and also the arrangement of new relations with the country, which, as I have already said, has always been close to us. I wish it were a matter of substance, calm and rational. And the Czech government will do its utmost to do so. However, negotiations with the Brit will certainly not begin before autumn. The outgoing British Prime Minister refused to make an announcement about the performance this week and left it to his successor. But his successor is not yet elected. Thus, we have at least a few months to wait for the necessary formal step that results from the treaties, and we should make the best use of this time. What is good to stress at this point? Until the negotiations are concluded, i.e. with a high probability of at least two years, Great Britain remains a member country of the European Union with all rights and obligations. This does not change immediately the conditions for our mutual trade and investment, travel and neither does the British contribution to the European budget. And what is extremely important does not change the rights and obligations of Czech citizens living in the UK. The result of the referendum was significantly disrupted by the British political scene, the government conservative party and the opposition. It also has its distinct negative economic impacts. We can see it at the collapse of the British currency or at the reduction of the rating of Great Britain. The period of political uncertainty should therefore not last too long, especially in the interests of the Brit themselves. It is also very likely that the efforts of Scotland, which already has significant autonomy today, has its own government, has its own parliament, will also be part of the British internal policy after the referendum. At the same time, the Scots declare that they are interested in staying a part of the European Union or joining the European Union. If, through a new referendum, Scotland succeeds in promoting a separation from Britain, it will strengthen efforts in Northern Ireland to join the Irish. It is clear that the new British government is waiting not only for negotiations with the European Union, but, above all, for the fight to maintain the territorial integrity of Great Britain, as we know it today. This too is the result of a referendum on leaving the European Union. However, honourable Members, there are also specific warning signals that are directly affecting us today. A few days after the referendum, the Polish cultural center in London was attacked by vandals, writings such as "Gone with the Polish vermin!". There have been other incidents. This is an indication of how the atmosphere of the campaign before the referendum in Britain turned against foreigners, especially those who came to Britain to work from the countries of the European Union lying in the middle and east of Europe. The significant presence of economic migrants from the new Member States of the European Union has become an important argument for Brexit supporters. Even many people from the Czech Republic complain about how the atmosphere in the country toward foreigners changed during the campaign before and after the referendum. Such acts of hostility, hostility, extreme nationalism must be clearly rejected, and we ask that the British government speak out against them and intervene. I have taken advantage of the European Council's meeting, I have asked the personally resigning British Prime Minister Cameron to do everything he can to change the atmosphere in his country. Our citizens are supposed to have the same rights in Britain as the Brit have in our country. They work there, contribute to the economic growth of the country that hosts them, and do not deserve to be targeted by campaigns conducted by populists or nationalists. [[18.10 hours]] The outcome of the British referendum will, of course, have an impact on the Czech Republic as well. In the UK, over 40,000 Czech citizens officially live. According to some estimates, there may be up to twice as many. Great Britain is the third largest export market for us, and we have a positive trade balance with Great Britain, with a surplus of over 130 billion last year. These figures clearly show how connected we are in Europe, and it is also clear that even if the Brit are outside the European Union, they will still need us in the European Union and we will need them. For the future arrangement of relations between the European Union and Great Britain, we will seek a balanced agreement that will not harm our economic interests and that will not harm the rights of our citizens. We must ensure that the conditions for Brit access to the European internal market are consistent with the maintenance of four fundamental freedoms: the free movement of persons, services, goods and capital, and must be clear in the future that our citizens who live and work in the UK will have the same conditions as the Brit who work here in the Czech Republic. In order to be well prepared for negotiations with Great Britain, the government set up a working team on Monday to address the effects of Brexit and prepare the basis for negotiations on new relationship settings. He will try to find opportunities in Britain leaving, and opportunities that we can take advantage of especially in supporting companies that will want to move their European headquarters from Britain to the European Union. This team should also address the further direction of the European Union, or how the Czech Republic sees the future form of the Union. We will be in control of the terms of the UK's departure during the negotiations. We will control them through the European Council. It will be the European Council, which will define the negotiating mandate, will approve its outcome by qualified majority and will also decide on the possible extension of the two-year deadline. Personally, I believe that a two-year deadline may not be enough to negotiate the difficult conditions of Britain's departure. As far as the future form of the European Union is concerned, I would like to call for a debate on the future form of the European Union and on you, Members of the Chamber of Deputies, to the debate as well as on the representatives of the parliamentary political parties, because this is now our country's most own interest and its future. The Czech Republic has an open, export-oriented economy, we are in the middle of Europe. Our prosperity is firmly linked to our ability to export our goods and services. The EU market is a dominant market with an 80% share. Our prosperity and our success are thus linked to good neighbourly relations, free movement and also to a functioning European economy. This is why the Czech Republic is a country whose future we need to see in the European Union, not outside the European Union. In my view, there can be no doubt about the political sense and economic contribution of our involvement in the successful post-war cooperation project of European states. The outcome of the British referendum makes us think about where the Czech Republic sees the European Union in the coming years, how we imagine it, what we want it to be, what a legacy we leave to our children. It is clear that the European Union will continue without Great Britain. But the European Union cannot remain the same. The Union must be more attractive to citizens and also more useful. It must be less bureaucratic and more operational. They must offer their citizens sufficient space of freedom, security, prosperity and also give a clear hope for a good future. The Union must gain greater support from citizens so as to withstand the attacks of those seeking to dismantle it. Those who today propose that the European Union decompose are unable to offer a safer alternative and are unable to offer an alternative prosperity project. I am convinced that we need to participate actively in the reform of the European Union as Čech. We need to clearly define our priorities, we need to work on topics that will bring us together within the 27 countries of the European Union, and try to avoid those that can potentially divide us. The great internal market of the European Union and the benefits of it, as well as economic support from the richer countries of the European Union through European funds, are not a matter of course. Although that is how most of us feel after 12 years of membership of the European Union. Our economy is growing over the long term, mainly thanks to simple access to the half-billion-dollar market and support for European funds. It is also a fact that, thanks to the Czech membership of the Union, a number of investments have been coming to us since 2004, new jobs are being created and the standard of living is increasing. What our contribution to the debate on the future of Europe should look like. I think we should leave aside the debate as to whether more or less Europe is needed. We need to focus on a better Europe. The Union should also focus on the practical restoration of convergence, i.e. the approximation of wages and standard of living, towards the richer countries of Europe. The differences between the old and the new Member States are still huge in terms of standard of living, in terms of wages, and they raise permanent debates about social dumping. After all, economic migration within the European Union is also due to huge differences in living standards and remuneration between the old Member States and the new states that have joined the European Union in the last 12 years. In order to bring the standard of living closer to the European Union, we must use the instruments at our disposal, cohesion policy, European funds, strengthening investment, completing the digital market, completing the energy union, promoting free trade across the European Union with goods, but also with services, strengthening the labour market in order to create quality and better paid jobs in the region of Central and Eastern Europe. honourable Members, in view of what is happening in the neighbourhood of the European Union, we must also be able to take much better care of our own European security. Europe must have a stronger foreign and security policy in order to be fully respected by its neighbours. In future, we should have European capacity to carry out our own military and civilian operations quickly in crisis situations. Europe must guarantee its citizens security. It is therefore necessary to deal more strongly with the increasing threats of terrorist attacks. The migration crisis has shown us very plasticly over the past two years that we must have a much stronger common protection of the external border. We must have the ability to stop illegal migration and help preventively at its origins. In my view, the slow response of European institutions to the migration crisis has undermined the confidence of many people in the European Union's ability to manage the security and humanitarian aspects of large migration. Here too, the European Union's capabilities need to improve considerably. The threats of terrorism, religious fanaticism, wars and instability around Europe as a result of climate change, and all those responding to large migratory waves, are so serious that no country can face them on its own. If we are to protect our citizens, it requires cooperation and strong alliances within a stable European Union. The European Union has been designed by its founders as an instrument of cooperation between nations in Europe, a major preventive project to prevent the repetition of national conflicts, wars that we experienced in both the 19th and the 20th centuries. And this, honourable Members, is no phrase. Peace in Europe over the past decades has proved that the European Union has been working as a safeguard against conflicts between states, and we must therefore keep the Union in the future. If we do not do this and if the situation gets out of control, Europe can become a nationally motivated and competitive country from a Europe of cooperating and mutually respected countries. Just like it was in the first half of the 20th century. I think we all remember what uncontrolled nationalism led to and what Czechoslovakia did then. Returning 70 years ago must be an unacceptable idea for us in this respect. [[18.20 hours]] Together with our partners in Europe, we should start looking quickly for ways to reach a more effective and active union. We will only ensure a credible and actionable Union if all 27 Member States bring their diversity to the negotiating table, their unique view of the matter. We must not suppress diversity within Europe, but we should support it. We must leave as much room as possible for individual states to deal with things where common rules are not needed for all 27 Member States. And we also need the European Commission, which will be less bureaucratic and will help to seek compromise and balance more. We also need to strengthen the position of the European Council, where representatives of individual EU Member States sit. It is not possible for the weight of the European Council, which represents individual Member States, to be suppressed and reduced in favour of the European Commission or the European Parliament. European institutions have been designed to balance each other. That is why I consider it important that the Czech Republic insists on strengthening the role that the European Council will play in the changes in the EU. If we are debating reforms, the modernisation of the EU, the driving engine should be all 27 EU countries. It cannot be a task that is normally assigned to the European Commission. I don't think that's gonna end well. So the aim is for changes in the Union to be controlled by the Member States, to be their engine and to initiate them. We must also be faster in our decision making. We should bring things to an end quickly and efficiently. This is not only a call to the Commission or to Parliament, but also to us, individual Member States. Finally, honourable Members, I would like to point out once again that the really active and actively understood membership of the Czech Republic in the EU is a matter of priority national interest. I see a positive future and a guarantee of further safe development of the Czech Republic in the EU. But in an EU that is capable of action. An EU that can reform itself. The EU, which is useful to its citizens and Member States and which is also credible to them. I want to thank you for your attention. I want to call for a debate on the active role of the Czech Republic in the EU, and I also want to call for the challenges that are ahead of us during negotiations with the UK on brexit, but above all during the debate on how to reform the EU and improve its functioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u3	I thank Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka and we will continue with the debate that I am opening. Before I give the first word, allow me to state the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. The Minister of Education, Youth and Sports apologizes until the end of the meeting day and at 1850 pm Mrs Marie Benešová. The first party to the debate is Mr Marek Černoch and I will announce another one. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u4	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. We have heard what we should hear here, but we have not heard what the Czech Government will do for it. Prime Minister Sobotka has once again shown himself to be a person who ignores citizens' views after the British exit. Yesterday, he leaned on the UK for even taking the liberty of holding a referendum. According to the Czech Prime Minister, the folk referendum itself was already a mistake. Mr Sobotka thus stood on the side of Commission President Juncker, who is not suited to the will of the British people, so he constantly attacks him. Both gentlemen were evidently moved by the gall that the proud and brave islanders destroyed their European home. We were all able to see again the position of the Czech Prime Minister and the whole EU on the referendum. If it comes out the way it needs to, it's okay. If you don't, it's a mistake. But a referendum is a legitimate instrument in which people can express their opinion. There is, of course, a need for analysis, model situations, economic analyses so that people can have information and make a decision, but the possibility of a referendum is completely legitimate and it is a legitimate instrument that unfortunately our government is afraid of. Now to the very position that the Czech Republic is supposed to take after Brexit. The message from the Brit is clear. We do not like the European policy of an ever closer Union and we want to make our own decisions. That's how Britain decides, and that's how Britain presents it. Well, that's what every judgmental person has to present. What was the reaction of President Juncker of the European Commission? Quite the opposite. The United Kingdom's appearance wants to use the euro to expand the euro area so that the euro is paid everywhere. Even a slap like Britain's withdrawal from the Union didn't raise Juncker from his Eurocentralist policy. In our opinion, the procedure is supposed to be completely opposite. The functioning of the EU must be substantially revised and a common basis for cooperation between European States. The common basis is called the common internal market. This is the only real contribution of the EU. The other things, whether it's asylum and security policy, a ban on the possession of weapons, or forbidding powerful light bulbs, have become, in a better case, nonsense, in a worse case, a thing that threatens us directly. The European Union needs to be brought back before the Treaty of Lisbon, i.e. to a situation where individual Member States were sovereign, to the advantage of the common market, but at the same time to make their own decisions. As I outlined earlier, something like this is not possible with people like Juncker or Mogherini. Therefore, it is imperative that Juncker finishes at the head of the Union. It must be replaced by someone who will be willing to listen to citizens' views and who will turn the helm of integration back to freedom and sovereignty of individual Member States. The call for these changes clearly does not come from the Czech Government and therefore we want it to come from the Czech House. Therefore, on behalf of Dawn, I propose a resolution: firstly, the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on Jean-Claude Juncker to resign as President of the European Commission. Secondly, the Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to open negotiations on the return of the EU to a state before the Treaty of Lisbon. Thirdly, the Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to support the launch of a referendum on the continuation or withdrawal of the Czech Republic from the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u5	I thank Mr Marek Černoch. Mr Chalupa, with a factual remark, will be prepared by President Fiala. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Prime Minister, members of the government, all present. I am somewhat disappointed by what the Prime Minister has said here, because it is again dozens of words, sentences - we should, we could, and so on. I expected to learn something concrete here about what this government and its prime minister wanted to do in the EU so that Brexit would not repeat itself. I'll repeat what I said this morning. If the battle's over, then today we're calling the king naked, everyone really knows how to do that. But we have witnessed the migration crisis and other problems of the EU for a year and a half, we are talking about it in the Committee on European Affairs and in the subcommittee on migration and asylum policy, we are raising various topics, and we have not received a single response about how these issues have reflected in what our representatives in the EU are actually doing and doing so that this Brexit does not occur. That brexit happened, and if we don't act and talk about specific things, we have a big problem. And that lost battle may not be a lost battle, but it may be the beginning of a lost war for the existence of the entire EU. So I'm really, really sorry, but to listen here to what the average citizen gets based on information from the media, it's like a waste of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u7	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I will ask my colleague, Mr Fiala, to be patient because I have two factual points here, namely three, by the Prime Minister and Mr Benešík. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u8	I want to assure Mr Chalupa that Brexit will not really repeat itself. It's already happened. You may have listened badly, but it's clear that it's irreversible. Although we have noted some speculation that there might be a so-called second referendum and so on. But truly, Mr. Ambassador, Brexit won't happen again. It's a process that's happening now. We're gonna have to deal with this. And I think that we have a clear plan of how, as the Czech Republic, we will proceed how to negotiate with Great Britain - and I have clearly named here what our priorities will be. If Britain wants access to the free market, of course we want the highest possible rights for our people and our workers in the UK. As far as security and migration are concerned, I have devoted a large part of my speech to this and you should have listened more carefully. And it was the Czech Republic, which, for two years as the V4 Presidency, pointed to obvious errors in the European Commission's migration policy and some of the Member States of the European Union. And it was the Czech Republic, which proposed from the very beginning what the whole mainstream in the European Union already coincides with today, and that is to strengthen the protection of external Schengen borders. And it was us as the V who proposed the closure of the Western Balkan migration route, which greatly helped cope with the migration crisis. And it was the Czech Republic, which, as one of the first countries in 27, proposed the establishment of a common European border guard precisely to strengthen the protection of the external Schengen border. We listen carefully to what is said in the parliamentary committees, and we also look carefully around and have been able to evaluate the migration crisis realisticly from the very beginning. Unfortunately, I say, unlike some colleagues in the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u9	I thank the Prime Minister for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Ondřej Benešík, also with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u10	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, we must realise that in this referendum the Brit have decided fairly, not the citizens of the Czech Republic. They've decided what they've decided, and we just have to act. When it comes to the referendum itself in general, sometimes with a joke, and I think it may not be a complete joke, he says that the first referendum in the history of mankind was when Pilát asked the crowd whether to go to the death of Ježíš or Barabáš. We have to realize that, too. The important thing is also that the Brit have very much considered migration issues in the referendum. But beware, they did not consider whether the migration of non-European countries to the European Union, including the United Kingdom, should be the opposite. On the other hand, they were bothered by the Brexit supporters who wanted to get out and want to get out, the migrations from within the European Union and the benefits that these people have taken to the United Kingdom. I say very briefly that these people are much more annoyed by a Polish Catholic than a Pakistani Muslim.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u11	I thank Mr Ondřej Benešík. Now a factual point - whether President Kalousek insists on a factual point? [[No.]] It doesn't. Such a factual remark by Mr Chalupa and then by then by President Fiala. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u12	Thanks for the word. I assure all present that I am listening very carefully to everything that is going on in the European Union, to what we discussed this morning on the Defence Committee, to what I am learning on the subcommittee on immigration and asylum policy, on European matters. And the fact that I said brexit, that's an approximation. Because of course we can talk about czexit, Polish exit and so on. If we're going to have this conversation in the form that we're essentially practicing here, that we're repeating clichés and phrases, and we're not saying anything concrete that we could actually discuss, we're really not going anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u13	Thank you. Mr Marek Černoch's point of fact is now still being made. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u14	Thank you. It's a real question. Prime Minister, a clear question. I beg you for a clear, brief answer. Do you want Jean-Claude Juncker to continue at the head of the European Commission? Yes or no? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u15	Thank you. Mr. ODS Chairman Petr Fiala. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to move a little outside of the internal coalition conflict that is taking place here, and I will try to be very supportive of the government and all other parliamentary parties, because I consider the situation that has arisen in Europe very seriously, even though everyone may not realize it. I think that in the coming days questions will open for the Czech Republic regarding the quality of our national sovereignty, the community we want to be in, and the pressures we will face. And that it is appropriate to try to find here, try to find some national consensus, at least a minimum consensus with which we could promote our interests in the European Union. Of course, there is no point in repeating that the Union, as a result of the British referendum, has come into a new, completely unprecedented situation, that it is a step into the unknown, that this can also mean the end of the integration process. We'll see. Of course, no one is able to imagine all the consequences in Brussels or anywhere else today. When we look at the first reaction of Brussels politicians, and often the reaction of a very hysterical one, we realize that they just didn't admit things, they didn't want to admit them, and they don't accept the reach of what happened now. In any case, we can say that this is the end of the EU as we know it. And it's clear to me that after a few days and weeks, we're gonna be witnessing a backpacking: these people didn't know how they were voting, and it could happen again. We know all this from the past from referendums that were repeated either in Denmark or Ireland, or from referendums that were ultimately ignored in a sense, such as referendums in France or the Netherlands. But what happened in Britain is something qualitatively different. It's not gonna go down. For the first time, there has been a vote on the country's withdrawal from the EU. The vote was clear, the Brit said yes, we want to get off, and we want to get off. And the EU without Britain - the EU without Britain, I stress this - is a completely different project than we knew, and Mr Juncker can tell us what he wants. The EU, as it was created from the European Communities, was, of course, created as a structure to which the United Kingdom belongs. Brexit is, however, and so we must understand, or let us try to understand, of course, an opportunity, or it may be an opportunity. This is the last chance to change the EU to be a community of economic prosperity, political stability, security, and also, and I stress this, and also an attractive model of interstate order, which is by no means at present. And one more word I'm stressing, and that's the word "last." Last chance, last chance. The EU is not only increasingly alienated from citizens - and I like to use the word 'disappearance' here, and I have to admit that some of the concepts used by the left have their charm and their interpretation accuracy. The Union has been alienating its citizens for years, but it has recently also clearly weakened the forces of European countries rather than strengthening them, and it cannot solve any major problem that we encounter in Europe. And more and more people have said: we do not need such an EU. And British citizens have said so, and with them more and more citizens in other EU countries are saying so, and so am I. If we do not change the EU, we will all sink with it. [[18.40 hours]] brexit is opening up a historic opportunity for reform. And perhaps representatives, at least some representatives, European political elites, and perhaps the government of the Czech Republic also understood that. There's a little hope. Over the past week, we have heard from long-standing advocates of the European Union's current direction, namely the tightening of integration bolts, regardless of what reality is and what citizens think of it, from these supporters of deeper integration, that the Union needs to be changed in order to better suit the interests of EU citizens, that it needs to be reformed. I don't mind them saying that now, and they were laughing at us when we said that years ago. I take it pragmatically. If there's a chance of change, let's do it together, let's do it together, both realists and improvement of pro-integration ideologists. But even in this call for reform, it is necessary to read, understand and translate what is actually being said in the European language. From the mouth of the President of the European Parliament, Martin Schulz or the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, we have been able to hear calls for Europe in recent days, which is more operational and efficient. And if you deal with the European Union as long and in detail as I do, you would know that action in the Brussels language means strengthening integration at all costs, and efficiency in the history of European integration has always been contrary to its democraticity and public support. So we have to be very careful here because it seems that the same toxic content is being offered here wrapped in a more modern packaging. And this idea of reform needs to be rejected immediately and clearly. When Mr Juncker no longer resigned, and unfortunately, even the voices of the political parties represented in this House, he was not dismissed, and when he did not resign himself, at least it is necessary to tell him clearly that we reject the reform he had in mind from the outset, because it would not have been a reform, it would have been a continuation of the wrong path so far, only we would have followed that path even faster and even more ruthless. Future reform must go in exactly the opposite direction. Stop integrating at all costs, maintain the internal market and return part of the decision-making to national states, eliminate unnecessary regulation and, on the contrary, start more together to take care of defence and security. I want to make it clear in this context: it is not at this time in the first place about when and under what conditions Britain will leave. That's one of the topics, of course, but it's not the first topic. The first and main issue that matters is what the European Union will look like and how it will change. In this regard, we must also have a political debate in the Czech Republic. Many of our representatives, including myself, have spoken in this context about the need to seek national consensus, national consensus. I myself called for the negotiations of all democratic political parties immediately after the announcement of the outcome of the British vote, and, as I said at the outset, I want to help this search for consensus, the search for consensus on national interests, in my speech today. I have listened very carefully to your speech today, Prime Minister, but I have also listened to your speech at the press conference after the Brussels European Council meeting, and I can say that I agree with a number of general principles on how to direct reflections on future integration, particularly: the European Commission should be a less activist government, but rather an institution seeking to find compromise and agreement in areas where Member States want to cooperate. Furthermore, I agree that the position of the Council as a champion of the interests of the Member States should be strengthened within the institutions of the European Union. Integration should have greater respect for the diversity of the national interests of the Member States. Also, as you said last Friday for Czech Television in the immediate response to the result of the referendum, the Union should be more flexible. I also agree with you that cooperation between Member States in the field of security and defence should be strengthened. But it also needs to be said right at the beginning of the debate to make sense of what we disagree about. For example, we do not agree on a fundamental matter, and this is about the need to open contracts. Yesterday, at a press conference in Brussels, you said that opening contracts is not on the agenda because it would be too complicated a process. But I am afraid, Prime Minister, that if you are serious about the need for reform of the European Union, and I want to take it so badly, you and the entire government will have to get used to the idea that the reform process will be difficult and touch essential things, otherwise there will be no reform, and it will only be empty phrases that your coalition partners here accuse you of. The process will be difficult, and it will also be difficult because the new strategic geopolitical and political situation that is becoming the departure of Great Britain from the European Union is complex. And the Czech Government, Czech diplomacy, but also political parties as representatives of the public will have to look for answers to this new situation. Let me briefly summarize at least the main points of this situation, so that we all realise what is going on here. One. There is or will be a change in geopolitical balance within the European Union. By leaving Great Britain, the European Union is losing something we could call an Atlantic anchor. And our task will be to establish relations with Britain so that it will continue to be a bridge of transatlantic ties with the United States of America, so that it will also be our reliable and key partner not only in terms of defence, but also in terms of security and intelligence cooperation. When I talk about geopolitical balance, I must also remind you that it was the United Kingdom, which has always balanced the traditionally more open relationship between some other Member States with Russia within the European Union. Influential centre of gravity will shift more into the heart of Europe within the European Union, which means that Germany will become a central player of the Union, even stronger than now, with a central influence, especially because of economic strength, and not only because of it, but also because of the capacity of civil powers, when many countries are even considered to be a pragmatic crisis manager, right or wrong. And let us remember what it means and what it means for the Czech Republic as well. Germany has been and is the main supporter of closer integration of the euro area, which should be an instrument of closer political integration in the eyes of Germany. In the end, this variant of development, which I am now presenting, is also envisaged by the Czech Government in its strategy for the Czech Republic's action in the EU. And that's the problem. And this is a big problem for the Czech Republic, because the eurozone is problematic, it is problematic economically and structurally, and by shifting the centre of gravity of power to Germany, to Central Europe, it can be assumed that political pressures will arise and strengthen us to join the debt union as quickly as possible to enter the eurozone. After all, the first signals are already coming up. The Czech Government will have to answer the question of the extent to which it is in the interests of the Czech Republic, how it will respond to these pressures and challenges, and to what extent this development is combined with calling for more flexible and freer European cooperation. [[18.50 hours]] But let's pour some pure wine right at the beginning of our domestic debate. The strengthening of Germany's influence raises further quite specific questions. For example, whether the German concept of the Hard Core Union in the form of the euro area will also mean the pressure to adopt the German concept of EU, energy, or migration policy and other related issues. These things can't be ignored, they can't be talked about. The Czech Republic must have a strategy for these things. We need to know clearly how to proceed, what is beneficial for us and what we will defend and who we will defend ourselves with. These things need to be discussed immediately. Secondly, another element of the new strategic environment is related to this issue, and that is what is called differentiated integration. And the differentiated integration that the Czech Government is now talking about is, of course, a reality in the European Union to some extent, and, as you yourself said, Prime Minister, it should play an even greater role in the future arrangement of the European Union. But - but - The Czech Republic must prevent the creation of a Union of two categories, such as the integration core around the euro area and other members of the European Union who will be members of the second category. This will be an extremely difficult debate, and not only an extremely complex political debate, but also an extremely complex legal debate. And the guide to how out of this discussion may be the principles contained in the Reform Treaty, which Britain has negotiated with the Union, which is not legally valid, but some of its proposals are still politically up to date. I think that, as the Czech Republic, we should take this into account and work actively with these principles in the negotiations on the future organisation of the European Union. I am thinking, first of all, of the interpretation of the principles of the ever closer Union, which was confirmed by the European Council in June, when this does not mean that everyone must move at the same speed towards the same objectives, as well as the principle of equalisation of the political representation of members and non-euro area members, which is extremely important from the point of view of the Czech Republic. The third characteristic of the new situation is the search for a new balance between European institutions. You yourself mentioned, Prime Minister, that an intergovernmental element must be strengthened and that the role of the rada should be strengthened. This is fully supported by the Civil Democratic Party, because we said so a long time ago. Of course, what is at risk must not happen and what we are witnessing in these hours is that the European Parliament and the European Commission will use the current debate to further strengthen their powers. It is Brexit and the growth of radical extremist parties virtually throughout Europe or in all the countries of the European Union that shows that this path of strengthening the Commission is not leading anywhere to strengthen these EU institutions. It's a road to a dead end. But it is in this context that the question is whether we will settle for an informal, let us say, customary change in the role of the individual EU institutions, which is happening, or, I think, a more correct way, we will want to codify this change in the primary law of the European Union. And I think, and I want to say this clearly also when entering this debate, that the mechanisms of the current treaties, such as the mechanisms of the Treaty of Lisbon, do not give much space to change the roles of individual European institutions, and that a revision of the Treaty of Lisbon will be necessary. Another question that we, as the Czech Republic, should ask ourselves if we do not want to contribute to the sense of alienation of our citizens, is the question of which policies and which policy areas we set aside so that qualified majority cannot vote on them, not to re-vote on qualified majority, so that those who are already there can be excluded from this, so that situations such as those in the case of quotas cannot occur, that we can be overvoted by a qualified majority on such a fundamental matter that concerns the sovereignty of individual countries. And for this, and I think we can all agree that this is very important, for this is also a need to open contracts, and for this there is also a need to change those contracts. From what I've said, it should be clear that without changing the contracts, we won't be able to avoid them. But all those who are afraid of it, I would like to make sure that the changes in contracts are very likely to happen either way, because, after the departure of Great Britain, the new weight of votes in the Council must be codified, references about Britain, exemption protocols that Britain has negotiated, etc. must be removed. etc. So contracts are likely to be opened. We should be prepared for this situation, and we should not resort to old habits - to denying reality, in this case by claiming that contracts will not be opened. The contracts will open. Let's have a debate about this. And let us discuss what we want to change as the Czech Republic in the treaties. Otherwise, we'll be surprised that someone changes it without us, instead of us, for us, and we'll have things that we don't want there. I want to believe that the government, face to face with all these new challenges I'm talking about, will find a lot of courage and face the problems. The worst thing that could happen to us is to wait and see how things are going to turn out in Brussels, Berlin or Paris. We need to know what we want here in Prague, what the European Union should be like, what the European Union is like for us. We need to formulate this here and then enforce it in the negotiations and try to get the others to do it. Otherwise, others will decide for us. And that's unacceptable to me. And I hope - I hope still - that this is unacceptable for most of you too. At the same time, I would like to call on the Government to take a really active stand on the upcoming developments within the European Union, to take advantage of the new spaces that are opening up, and to take advantage of the very probable or almost certain opening of contracts to protect the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic. And that's not a phrase. It has absolutely specific content. If we disagree on nothing else, there are two things in which the Czech Republic should already negotiate exemptions, and that is an exception to the automatic adoption of the euro, and that is an exception to asylum and migration policy. Prime Minister, I will address you once more. I am glad that you have left your initial position to address the situation as quickly as possible and recognised the need to formulate a new strategy against future developments in the European Union. In this context, despite all the helpfulness that I hope I have demonstrated and demonstrated here, I must express my opposition to the format by which the government has decided to address this new strategy, and this is the establishment of a working group, a working group of wise people, which should formulate the principles of the new strategy by September. And as I understand it, the opposition should be invited to comment on the results of this group's work. [[19.00 hours]] This is not a good procedure. This procedure, which the government elects, justifies doubt as to whether you really mean your reform statements. Because this is a de facto copy of what Mr Juncker is doing at European level and how the European Commission is progressing, when a group of supposedly enlightened bureaucrats will determine the political representation of what to do and when everyone else will be faced with a finished cause. In this context, I ask you, I ask, please, that the working group's format be extended and that the democratic political parties represented in Parliament participate in the work of this working group from the very beginning of its work. This is the only way we can achieve a result that reflects really common interests, which can then defend the political representation of the Czech Republic regardless of how it will be composed. For the Civil Democratic Party, I want to say that we are ready to actively and constructively participate in the work of this working group. In order to prove it, I am already setting out, at the end of my speech, the five principles that we will be promoting in these other debates. The citizens' Democratic Party will support such reform actions, which will first lead to a more flexible and much less regulated Union. Secondly, to the Union with a greater voice from the national states. Thirdly, to the Union, which will maintain integration only in those areas on which Member States agree. Fourthly, to the Union with a strong internal market. Fifthly, the Union, which will cooperate more closely in the field of security and defence. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that these are principles on which we can agree, because they are principles that are in the interests of the Czech Republic. We are ready to discuss their concrete fulfillment. And I hope, I dare to hope that the government will not reject this offer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u17	Good evening. Thank you to Chairman Fial. And now, with a factual remark, Vice-President Vojtěch Filip. Please, Mr. Vice-President. After that, Mr Ivan Gabal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, members of the government, ma'am and gentlemen, I will only actually respond to President Fiala's speech. Yes, the European Union without Great Britain is something else. But Great Britain was not the founding state of the European Union and it also became something else after its entry. And it is not the British people's fault that they decided to leave in a referendum. We have pointed out the incompetence of the European Commission over the long term. Among other things, the referendum is also a message to all national governments to stop respecting electoral promises. Because the disgust when I have to use the right words rather than the disillusion that is being used, about what political representation does after the election, is here permanently present. As regards the confirmation that it is incompetent, of course, the step taken by President Juncker is the President of the Commission, who is proposing a actually forced euro area. How can we, at a time when the turbulent situation in all the national states of the European Union is going to be removed from monetary policy, and therefore, if you want, a policy that will be based precisely on how the value of the koruna against other currencies will change? And I do not really think that the emancipation of Europe cannot go the way when there will be more bureaucracy, but there is simply a need to return the rights of individual national states. And I have to say, the only thing I can see is that a supra-governmental organisation becomes an intergovernmental organisation. Because without that step, we're not really going to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u19	I thank the Vice-President. Another point of fact, Mr Ivan Gabal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, I will have three brief methodological remarks to set some things straight. First, the marginal exit of the Brit is 51.5 to 48.5. I do not want to train from statistics, but precisely because the mandate is very weak, it threatens that its strength in terms of European law and its enforcement by the Commission or negotiator can lead to very destructive internal policy developments and the collapse of Britain itself. This means, it is not that the state of disintegration of Britain will trigger a European one, i.e. the state of disintegration will trigger a European crisis rather than the other. We must be very careful not to blow up Britain in this negotiation. Second point. The experience shows that the lies behind the Leave campaign are of great value. And that price will be paid by the whole of Europe. Because not only the Brit were voted on, but we were voted on as well. Second, it is important, and here I would ask the Prime Minister - in a week's time, we have a NATO summit ahead of us, which means that the issue of exposing the European Union's northern wing through Britain's potential departure as a carrier of nuclear deterrent force and seats in the Security Council must be compensated for by much closer cooperation between NATO and the European Union. And we should prepare for this for the next summit. I would also very much like to call a special committee on defence or defence consulting groups, to mention and possibly to Parliament, so that we can think about what we will support and want there. It's very important. It is the first summit after this event. A third technical point, and I would recommend that the Minister of Finance take a look at the new WTO round and its conclusions, because, in my view, his conclusions will not allow Britain to reach the status of Switzerland or Norway, and it will be very difficult to obtain relations other than that of Argentina. [[Time warning]] That goes on to our companies, our workers and all that, and we should know exactly where we are. And the last -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u21	No, I'm sorry, but your time is up, Mr. Ambassador. If you want, sign up for another note. And please keep the time limit. Mr Zdeněk Soukup, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u22	Very briefly, ladies and gentlemen. There is a lot of talk here about the need to promote reform of the European Union. I ask how it can be enforced if, as the Prime Minister says, the opening of Lisbon is not yet planned, or if so. The Maastricht Treaty? That's the quadrature of the circle. Basically, that's almost impossible. I would also like to think about the fact that it says here that there is a need to strive to strengthen economic, social. At present, the situation is that economic reinforcement can basically make us a target country for migration. That's what we want to avoid. We know that at present the European Parliament, the European Commission, is working very hard on certain directives. For example, the directive on the unification of asylum policy. Or a directive to unify social policy. Again, these are the things that can bring us to a situation where we become the target country. That's a clear intention. Then I'd like to say something more about security. We will strengthen European security. I think that we should prepare ourselves for the worst and, at the same time, with European security, also take care of our security. I was just listening to Viktor Orbán's speech here. He's very clear about it. There are states, there are countries that already think like this on the back wheels. And in conclusion, let me make one such comment, considering, a metaphor. Our participation in the European Union is a marriage of reason. If one of the partners is out of their minds, I'd say the marriage is losing its worth. I don't want to summon evil spirits, but we have to prepare for something like this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u23	Thank you. President of the Chamber of Deputies with priority rights. Is that real enough? Okay, Mr. Chairman, factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. You know, I always liked reading Perry Mason. And Perry Mason said it's impossible to eat pie and want him to stay on that plate. And this has reminded me when I listened to some of the arguments that are falling here, calling for a return before the Treaty of Lisbon and to Maastricht even, that is a new one, and at the same time in the same speech I hear calls for the strengthening of the European security or the European Union's ability to act on the world stage. It's just not compatible. Let us see what was the result of Lisbon. Strengthening Europe's role on the world stage, creating mechanisms that enable Europe to take action on the world stage. And if we are calling here for a return to national states or some free group, it is, in my view, directly against the interest that the European Union should be able to manage the big issues that we are facing here. And if we think we can solve migration on some kind of free cooperation format for national states, we just can't figure it out. We need to address this at European level, we need European solutions. So I would welcome a substantive discussion, but also a rational discussion with arguments that we are able to justify, and not just some kind of call and shots into the air: let's cancel Lisbon, let's cancel Maastricht, it'll work out. It won't. Because there will simply be no contractual mechanisms for the policies we need.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u25	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Martin Novotný, Mr Petr Fiala, followed by Mr Jiří Dolejš. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u26	Have a good night. I would like to respond to the speech of the President of the Chamber of Deputies by such a simple question. Do you think, Mr President, that Euro-Atlantic civilization, our Western world, which we did not yet belong to at that time, and today, were stronger in solving problems and promoting our will in the world in various fires of danger, potential immigration sources, at a time when the leaders of independent and autonomous European countries, such as Margaret Thatcherová, Helmut Kohl or Francois Mitterrand, spoke for this Western world? Or, it is at a time when, for this Western world, people whom almost no one knows in Europe speak, with dubious democratic legitimacy, who did not go through the fire of any elections, illegitimate their policy of contact with citizens, people like Jean-Claude Juncker or Mrs Mogherini etc.? I believe that the Western world, in promoting its influence on the planet as a whole in various fires of danger, was much stronger, more operational, even before President Barack Obama weakened this Euro-Atlantic bond with his policy, and before Europe weakened itself by its rapid integration. I think historical developments have shown that. To me, it's completely incomprehensible that a lot of people don't see it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u27	Mr Petr Fiala, after him Mr Jiří Dolejš, then Mr Hamáček. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u28	My factual point is also a response to the speech of the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Well, it is the reality of you, through Mr President, that really condemns you from the very opposite. The Treaty of Lisbon does not allow the European Union to be stronger or more actionable or even find any solutions. It is precisely on the example of the migration crisis that we have seen very clearly that all the solutions that have been found and declared to be European solutions have been solutions that have been adopted by countries at an interstate level, even across countries that are and are not members of the European Union. Just as the European Union has evolved, the process of European integration, as we have codified it into treaties, including Lisbon, has not contributed to any strengthening of Europe's capacity for action, addressing the problems we face. About what I was talking about. I wasn't talking about going back, 'cause when there's all sorts of quotes, I'd remind the old one, too. You don't enter the same river twice. And that is quite clear in this case. But the opening of contracts, even if some national and Union officials are denying it now, is quite obvious. And when they open up, we should want to change them, and we should want to change what doesn't work in them. And the Treaty of Lisbon is the main candidate for change. I do not know a single example of something that really works better than before on the basis of the Treaty of Lisbon. As far as the security and defence that I am talking about is concerned, cooperation between European countries can be actively developed and we do not need the Treaty of Lisbon or the provisions in it. We can also do this on an interstate principle. We will still have to if the United States changes its approach to defending Europe. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u29	Thank you. Mr. Jiří Dolejš, after him President Hamáček, after him President Černoch. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u30	It is early evening and we are discussing the future of Europe. I think that we should at least try to put so many topics to someone - and I think that there is someone to debate who, besides the government parties with a certain responsibility - has prepared something with which the Czech representation will probably go to the summit in September in Bratislava. And if there is a debate on the contractual basis of the European Union, let us face it that such a substantial change cannot affect the contractual basis of the European Union. And narrowing it down to changing the geometry of European decision-making is absurd. That is not what the citizens of the European Union expect of us. So, yes, we ratified the Treaty of Lisbon. I have a feeling that the ODS colleagues voted in favour of the ratification, as they call the modus desperandi, it was no different back then. But many of those who voted in favour of ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon had a lot of pain in the hand. Let us admit that it is probably not okay there, that the revision is on the table, but until that September at least we should talk about whether we want to revise the Lisbon Treaty towards liberalisation and back up the European Union to a free agreement, or whether we want to better set up a balance of decision making so that Europe finally has a European citizen equal, small and large European states are equal and European peoples are equal. That's the point! Check and hold Brussels bureaucracy accountable! That's what we're talking about right now. Because if it wasn't, maybe there wasn't even a problem with the brexit. And let us not question - my colleague Gabal - the British referendum. Yes, it was only 48% of people. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] But there was a million-dollar difference. It is legitimate and I dare say that even in the cradle of democracy in the British Kingdom, they will not question this referendum. And turning myself to death until it comes out -- the right result, it's not a good card for democracy. [[The President apologizes and draws attention to the time again, but Mr Dolejš continues, so the President turns off the microphone. The rest of the speech off the microphone.]] Thank you for turning me off. I wasn't to stop. I admit it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u31	You weren't to stop. President of the Chamber of Deputies Jan Hamáček, after whom the President of the Chamber of Deputies Mr Černoch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u32	I'll try to respond. Firstly, one can agree with what colleague Dolejš says that it would really be worth creating a discussion platform over what the Czech Republic will go to Bratislava with. I think that is, of course, a substantive argument, a substantive proposal. I think the government will respond adequately to this, even in the House, I think at the level of the Committee on European Affairs, we can have this debate. About what my colleague Novotný said. You know, they're always a little limpy in the historical analogy. We need to look at the situation at the time and the problems that these people have been dealing with. And I don't know how Ronald Reagan would handle the migration crisis. That's a hypothetical question. And if we're talking about the effectiveness of crisis management, I think we can agree that one of the most effective methods was the diplomacy of cannon boats. That's what Great Britain did in the 19th century. When there was a problem, she sent a gunboat and they solved it. But we're in the 21st century and we just don't use some tools and we can't even use them. So the historical analogy, in my opinion, must be used very carefully. And the contractual framework. So, of course, we can launch a debate on the amendment of the contractual framework. But we must also ask what the debate will look like and what the expected outcome will be. And I do not think that in Europe most states are ready to return before Lisbon or Maastricht. Therefore, the only result of this debate, virtually. There may be a two-speed European Union to discuss the opening of a contractual framework, where the strong core comes with some solution, and now it puts us before the choice - either you accept it or it does not count on you. And that's what we don't want. Therefore, I would very much warn against opening up this debate, because I don't think it's going to end well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u33	Thank you, Mr President, for keeping up the time, or I would have turned off your microphone. Mr. Chairman Černoch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u34	I would like to respond to President Hamáček from his previous contribution. Brussels, below which it has been heading in recent years, is unable to protect its external borders, which we have seen during the migration crisis. The only result is the directives; they are regulations that are very often only informative in the form of a committee of European affairs. There's nothing we can do about it. That's not the way, and that's not the way we want to go. On the contrary, I think that the system of change towards the greater powers of the national parliaments, the Member States as such, so that they can decide on their own matters, that this is the right direction that the EU - or Europe itself - should be, because it is probably hard to talk about the EU today, that has ended in brexit. This is the only way to talk about Europe and the future of Europe. Greater powers for Member States to take into account the sovereignty of the Member States. I think that's the way. And once again, I would ask the Prime Minister if he could answer a factual remark as to whether he wanted to keep Mr Juncker in charge of the European Commission, because the articles that came out of the Czech Government said that even the Czech Government felt that Mr Juncker was not a man in his place. But those are the kind of political dances. So, frankly, manly, I'm going to say, whether he wants to or doesn't want to remain Mr Juncker at the head of the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u35	Now, with a point of fact, President Stanjura. After that, Mr Fiedler, Mr Novotný. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u36	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to the President's speech. In his speech, I think that the President of the Civil Democrats, Petr Fiala, put his hand to the debate and formulated ideas for us, things that we should promote together, and called for us to work together on this from tomorrow. I think it's the first one. [[unintelligible]] And then let's argue whether the contract or the contract must be formally opened. Otherwise, we're going about this the wrong way. But the President of the Chamber of Deputies said that then he was in danger of being a two-speed Europe. That's why I'm reading from it that we're supposed to be part of a hard core. But that does not go together from what the Prime Minister said and what we appreciated was that the aim of the reform is to vote - a flexible Europe. So what's flexible about it? You either jump in and do it our way, or you'll be somewhere else. I don't think that's it. But I think there is a much better method that we have proposed today - citizens' democrats. Specific things, analysis of what is not to be dealt with by qualified majority, but by consensus. Analysis of what we think will be for the Czech Republic. And if we agree in the Czech Republic, then we can promote our opinion on the EU. And we don't have to succeed either. We know that we don't have to succeed. But we offer an active role to defend Czech national interests. We believe that we have defined the areas so that we can agree on them, I do not say that we agree on them. And I think we can go into detail at the expert debate of the work teams. I wouldn't want to have a confrontational debate, because it's not confrontational on our part yet. We can be different in terms of things. I respect another view on the issue of European integration, but we really think that the EU must change or it will end. We'd rather she change. And let's look together for the position of the Czech Republic to change, and then let's look for allies. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u37	Mr Fiedler, with a factual point. Mr Novotný will be ready. After him, the Prime Minister, after him, President Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u38	Good evening. I'll admit I haven't been here all this time for this debate. But from what I hear, I've already registered two different approaches here. First of all, what my colleague Jiří Dolejš said about the fact that greater authority and small states should be strengthened. That they should all be equal to each other. Then I noticed from the words of President Hamáček and from the other words of other European politicians that this is not a principle that must necessarily be reckoned with. That there is still talk of a two-speed Europe. We should probably figure out what and what the positions of government will be that will negotiate in Bratislava. And here I am pointing out that we have already witnessed that the Chamber of Deputies adopted a resolution or had a tendency to equip the government with a mandate for negotiations at this level, and in the end, unfortunately, the Prime Minister's conduct was not in line with the House resolution. I even registered, now I don't know if I'm coming out of the media, from the media, that it was an advisory vote. I therefore have an answer to my written interpellation, which did not come to this morning, that the Prime Minister said that he took for granted that the government was responsible to the Chamber of Deputies. And I hope that, especially in this matter, this will apply. [[Voice from the O.R.]] It won't work. Yes? So, please, let us hear the Prime Minister's words or signal that the government will not be responsible for this Chamber of Deputies. That probably doesn't need any more comments. Everyone, you Members, citizens, if you're watching this. There's nothing to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u39	With a factual remark, Mr Novotný. After him, the Prime Minister, after him, President Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u40	Thank you for the floor. I totally share the Herakleite statement, which was recalled here that we will not enter the same river twice. There's no way I meant some kind of reminiscence. Real content solutions from the time of the great figures of European history. I meant something completely different, systemic. That these people had the advantage of operating in an institutional system where they had a mandate, of which the resulting authority to make substantial decisions and, at the same time, the functional means to implement these decisions. The European Union does not have either in its present form. On the one hand, its representatives have very weak regard to the mechanism of how they are generated, authority, legitimacy. At the same time, the mechanisms available to them for implementing their measures are very often zero. And we see this inability to ensure, for example, the protection of external borders, etc. I was talking about the institutional framework. That is all President Fiala mentioned when he mentioned the need for revision of the treaties, which define the institutional framework and the way in which decisions are decided and implemented. If we do not admit that it is fundamentally wrong to deny the entire historical experience of the functioning of democratic institutions both in Europe and in other parts of the Western world where integration processes took place, such as in the United States, we will not move further and under the boiler will boil more and more.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u41	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr. Prime Minister, with a point of order. After him, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u42	Thank you. I've been thinking a lot about whether to use the factual point, because there are a number of colleagues who are waiting with the proper ones. But I wanted to do it again because there were some things that I would like to respond to in time. One. I certainly take the proposal to involve parliamentary parties in the debate on the mandate for our EU negotiations and positive changes in the EU. Let's either form a working group or expand the government. Let's agree on some functional scheme so that it makes sense, and let's use the two months ahead of us to try to define the areas where we agree. I don't think we agree absolutely. I'm sure we have different opinions. This also shows the debate about institutions, where to strengthen Europe, where to leave it as it is. So we don't have to agree in a hundred percent, but I think there are areas where we could define a wider consensus across the political parties. So I agree with the proposal and let's expand the working group or modify it. Let's do this in the next few days to agree exactly on the format. And second point. I'm just here to discuss, colleagues and colleagues, to see what were the arguments that led to Brexit. They were not European bureaucrats. These were workers from Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary on the British labour market. That was the problem. You know that Britain has opened up its labour market. She hasn't taken any precautions. At the time, we appreciated that we actually had the opportunity to enter the labour market immediately. And today, years later, it turns out that perhaps those countries that opened up the labour market gradually, from the point of view of their own people, were able to deal with it. [[19.30 hours]] What did these people argue about? That Eastern and Central European workers cut wages, that they burden infrastructure, that there are too many people and children into kindergartens, that they are overloaded by doctors in those cities where workers from Central and Eastern Europe came. This was the strongest argument used in Brexit. [[Time.]] So please, let's talk about reality the way it looked in Britain.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u43	Thank you. President Kalousek, after him Mrs Miroslava Němcová. All factual points. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u44	Thank you for the floor. The Prime Minister made it easy for me because he made the offer, and I thank him for it. The government group is, I understand it as an expert group, but every expert group must have some political task, and we should try to agree on the basic priorities that the Czech Republic will promote in the talks without bothering you with the priorities of the TOP 09. In general, I think we all agree that we need to have a clear position on what the EU has to do and needs to do, that is, where its competences should rather be strengthened, and what it does not have to do at all, that is, where its competences should be decentralized. We may not find this entirely common ground, but an attempt at a common political assignment and at least a strong majority opinion is necessary in my view. We are signing up for this debate with a completely constructive approach and knowing that we will strive for the future of the Czech Republic within the framework, in our opinion, of a single grouping where a safe and prosperous future can be ensured. We're taking this very seriously, and we're applying for the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u45	Thank you to President Kalousek. Mrs Miroslava Němcová, Mr Miroslav Opálka will be prepared with a factual remark. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u46	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I first signed up for a proper speech in this debate. After putting the debate into my view, the President of the ODS, where I think he has created a good basis for the future debate, I have withdrawn my contribution because I want this logical order, which has been outlined here, to have the accession negotiations. My point is, therefore, now only about how the debate is diluted, for example, by the Prime Minister's words, which indicated the main reason for the British decision that they had reservations about Central European migrants on the labour market and that Brussels bureaucrats had no influence on it at all and did not blame it on it and did not discriminate against it at all. And I don't think we can look at things with that kind of simplification. I mean, if I was a British citizen and a week before the referendum, Jean-Claude Juncker told me what he said to the Brit, that is, that they are deserters and that they will not be dealt with kindly, so even though I would think a hundred times about getting off or not getting off, at the end of the day, which is coming, I would say that as a sovereign citizen, I would not be taking this note of my country and my history, and that I would eventually decide in the vote for the performance just under the impression of these most obvious messages. And if anyone is an accomplice to that result, and not one with a small share, they're these lunatics, Jean-Claude Juncker and Martin Schulz.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u47	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Miroslav Opálka, with the final factual remark so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, I know that there is a direct transmission, but this overuse and abuse of factual comments is really imminent. I would like to remind you of Section 60, as well as to the Governing Meeting, that a factual remark responds to the course of the debate or a procedural proposal is given on the way in which a point is discussed, but it does not have factual opinions on the subject. When I take all the speeches in factual notes, including colleagues from my club, these were factual positions on the issue at hand. I mean, we've been negotiating for one and a half hours. There were only two in the discussion, and otherwise we used up the time with comments. So, if this is not a factual point, the President may withdraw the word and this withdrawal is final. I would call on him to use paragraph 60, point 3, to get in line with those who are properly logged in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. I take note of the Rules of Procedure, and I just want to point out that if you did not have a factual point, Mr Martin Lank would have already spoken properly. Please, Mr. Ambassador, duly logged in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u50	Thank you for the floor. I didn't quite see it coming. And even though what I'm saying here, I'd be able to fit into a factual note, but I didn't want to take advantage of it. I would just like to return the debate to what was said here more or less at the beginning, so that we don't forget it. I would like to follow up on my colleague, Marek Černoch, and support the challenge that has been raised here. It is a call for Jean-Claude Juncker to resign as President of the European Commission, because the main argument has actually been made here. The only thing that can't be blamed here is that the United Kingdom and its citizens have made the wrong decision. It's starting to look like the EU is absolutely perfect, only the Brit have somehow misunderstood today. I think it's pretty obvious here that Mr. Juncker and I can't go any further. Mr Juncker is a model prototype of an unelected Brussels powerman with enormous powers to reform the EU, regardless of the views of European citizens, and there is the cornerstone of injury! We want to reform the EU fundamentally. We don't want to destroy it. We want to take, ideally, Brussels all competences that are not directly related to the common market. Today, the common market is basically the only positive thing about the EU, and we must preserve it. However, the other Brussels powers towards us, in our view, must be abolished, whether it is a dysfunctional asylum policy and a lot of other things. I think we all know that Mr. Juncker will never allow any substantial changes. It is absolutely evident from what he says and how he behaves. After all, before the Brexit vote, he said that the small concessions that the Prime Minister had negotiated were the maximum. And I feel that this is a clear message for the Czech Republic, too, that it will not be heard on the call for the release of the Union. The job of Jean-Claude Juncker is simply to be recruited by someone who will reform the EU because otherwise he has no chance of surviving. And I am asking you to support this resolution, which will be presented by my colleague, Černoch, in a detailed debate. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u51	Thank you, Mr Lank. Another duly applied for is Mr Leo Luzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u52	Mr President, Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, how duly signed up, I am very pleased to have gotten to the microphone by late evening, and I will therefore not delay. It said here what was the topic of brexit, but the referendum in England was known for about a year. Six months for sure. I have never heard from the mouths of our representatives, whether European or local, that the issue discussed among British citizens is immigration from Eastern Europe. Did any of you hear that this problem was in Britain? I didn't hear that. Our media didn't say anything about it. And suddenly, out of the blue, it's a problem, and we're guilty of it, we Východoevropan Europeans are guilty of it, that the Democrat Brit have decided what they've decided. I don't want to question it, but I'm merely pointing out the flow of information that flows into our media. [[19.40 hours]] Personally, I think that the EU's demise, because I have also heard such an expression, has launched the migration crisis and, above all, Germany with its approach to common European unity, to the protection of Schengen. That was the basic moment that Europe, let's say, had an altercation inside, and unfortunately, the Brit took a ride on this. And if there was a percentage distribution of what affected the British voters, in my opinion, that's the rock that triggered the avalanche. So not British citizens, but Germany's policy towards the migration crisis was the problem. But I'll go back to the basics that bother me more. It turned out the way it did. And what happened? The Council of all wise founding members of the European Union was immediately convened. I stress the founding members. We're all for Europe, aren't we? Other states. How are we feeling? How does the Prime Minister feel when he has not received an invitation to the meeting, what will happen next to the Europe that the European Union has called? I consider this to be significantly worse than the result of the euro. Here it has become clear how Europe means about the unity of the European Union, how Mr Juncker really means about how we should operate in Europe. The second moment came when the European Parliament voted on Mr Juncker's distrust. Here, let us say that of our MEPs who voted in favour, I assume the ODS, I assume the Free and Members of the KSČM voted in favour of the appeal or distrust of Mr Juncker. Everyone else supported him. He trusts him. He believes he will find the right way out of this crisis. But here I hear something a little different. And I'm afraid I hear it from the government's mouth. I hear it from the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who has openly expressed his distrust to Mr Juncker, on the contrary, the Prime Minister believes in him. This is what I expected to hear here as a clarification from the Prime Minister's mouth about the disharmony in the foreign policy of the Czech Republic towards the representatives of the European Union, what is the reaction of the Czech Republic to the fact that it was not invited to the basic meeting when it was resolved what actually happened, that we were left aside as other states. I consider this to be a kind of blackmail on the part of the European Union. And what is going on now is that, on the contrary, we must all embrace the euro as quickly as possible, as a signal that Europe is strong and that we can do without Britain, I consider it a very bad signal to Europe. But what's worse, we have a Visegrad Four. The press provided information that Poland was quick to look for ways to adopt the euro. Poland is the state that took over Visegrad's leadership. Has any of our representatives been in Poland to find out what the real situation is, what is the timetable, or whether Poland is serious? I expected the Prime Minister here to mention this in his speech when he said that after the Brexit of Poland as the leader of the Visegrad Four, he would have a vote for us in Europe. He doesn't. And it even looks like they're gonna leave us who don't have the euro, and they're gonna quickly associate themselves with the group that has the euro, because if a single Europe is going to come up with a multi-speed one, it's going to be the ones that have the euro and the ones that don't have it. And what will be the position of the Czech state? That'll be a question that won't be easy to answer. I think that shaping the commission, even if the expert committee, as has been said here, will be quite problematic, because, as has already been said here, we have different views on the outcome of the committee. We all agree that we want a stronger position of the Czech Republic, namely the smaller states of the European Union, against the big ones, or Lisbon. We are denying certain decision-making powers of the large states against the small ones. If this is a signal that the Czech Republic will send to the European Union, then yes. But I would still welcome the signal coming from the Visegrad Four, because it is now the territory and the number of people who play a significant role in Europe, and I would very much like it if the first task of the Foreign Minister imposed by the Czech Government was to go around all members of Visegrad and see how we are looking at this as partners in this matter, especially when Bratislava, I presume, will host the European Union summit on this matter, because only in the unity of us small ones is the chance to be, let's say, a little equal partner of Germany. And now Germany will be dominant. And I'm not happy about the last words of German politicians, and I'm worried about it. Recalling the relationship of the second large country, France, with the Czech Republic, is also often problematic. What is the relationship with the unity of the European Union to meeting European directives, criteria - well, France, she can afford not to follow the guidelines, but you little ones, you just have to. It is simply time to make order in the European Union. But that order will not be made by the Czech Parliament, it will not make ten million Czech citizens, because we are simply small. But we have a chance in Visegrad. I therefore call on the Prime Minister to speed up the negotiations on this matter within the framework of Visegrad and to introduce us to the Visegrad Group's position on this matter and to the joint action towards the European Union in the near future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u53	I thank Mr Luzar. Mr Ondřej Benešík, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, a decent response to what has been said here is indeed the biggest problem at least from my point of view, which has largely decided on Brexit, migration from within the European Union to the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom has negotiated an incredible number of exceptions, so-called opt-outs and opt-ins. They do not have to participate at all in any sharing of migration outside the Member States of the European Union. The United Kingdom is completely out of control in this regard, it does not concern them. Just some migration crisis does not concern the United Kingdom unless they want it to concern them. Let's just remember that, that's what it is. What bothers the Brit is migration from the Member States of the European Union, especially from the newcomers, including the Czech Republic, although we have played a relatively marginal role in this, to the United Kingdom. That's just a fact. And we've been dealing with this issue, imrvére, just talking for a year about the so-called inwork benefits that bothered the Brit. So some migration crisis, some statements and missteps by Angela Merkel couldn't play a part in this. And if they were involved in this, it's just because they were lying and misinterpreted. But the United Kingdom, with its past as a colonial country, simply has so many migrants outside the European Union who will be coming there and there will be some migration crisis, some million people who will come to Europe, can certainly not throw them apart and can not even throw them apart simply because it does not concern them. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] And once again, what bothered the Brexitists is a Polish Catholic, not a Pakistani Muslim.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u55	Thank you. Mr Leo Luzar, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u56	I just hope the Brit don't mind the Czech atheist. To the reminder - I would like to return - to France and to the French tunnel connecting the island with the mainland. Those camps that are there waiting to be flown to England, the Francouz might comment that it is the immigration wave and migration that France currently feeds and cares about. I wonder if by leaving the European Union, it will stop the tunnel operation for a while and allow the few Pákistánec that the Brit welcome to go to England. Through your colleague Benešík. If his commission, which he leads, knew that Britain's basic problem was migration from Eastern Europe in the long run, what did it do to promote that it was not really a problem? How did it work within the information flow to British citizens? Really, like -- we knew it, and we kept quiet so we wouldn't crash Europe's unity? These are questions that may be worth answering for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u57	Mr Martin Novotný, Mr Ondřej Benešík, followed by Mr Martin Novotný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u58	I promise it'll be a factual point. However, I have long responded to one of the basic ideas of the Prime Minister's speech. He mentioned how important Britain was to the history of the Czech Republic. I would like to say how important Britain is to me today: how Parliament works there. We all know that Parliament is an organ where robots don't discuss the words learned, but that there is actually a passionate discussion going on, about as passionate as before the exchange of views between Mr Benešík and President Fiala, but on a microphone, not in benches. And as a result, this passionate discussion generates something like the country's position, which then, to a certain extent, or to a fundamental extent, must be held by the government. All of us who criticise the institutions of the European Union, so I think that we should also consider ourselves to what extent in the many debates we have had over the last two years on various issues, this Parliament has generated any position, wherever it has moved and helped or committed the government to taking some foreign policy position. I think that we have never succeeded before and that this is one of the things in which, as this Parliament, we should sweep ourselves off our feet when we are criticising the European Union. And I criticize her very often. This debate may end with no result. The only positive I see in the offer of the body where representatives of political parties would discuss, but as usual no position and position of the Czech Republic has generated and generated this parliament for the nearest period.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u59	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Ondřej Benešík, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u60	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, briefly. What my esteemed colleague Leo Luzar said. I do not think that any Member State and its politicians should engage in any other Member State's campaign. Let us remember that he was involved, albeit indirectly, with the US President. He reaped criticism. And who didn't participate in the campaign? The Queen of Britain, she hasn't said anything about it. It's just their business, their politicians. And I don't think there should be any criticism of the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic right now that he was supposed to do anything about it. No, that's what David Cameron was supposed to be doing, not Bohuslav Sobotka. Let's just take it the way it is. Yes, we can regret something today, somebody's celebrating, somebody's sad about it. But this is a matter of the United Kingdom and its Majesty's subjects, not citizens of the Czech Republic. And just for refills. The Prime Minister kind of scolded me for still using the term, even a little symbolically, Polish Catholic. There I would add what he says: for example, there is also a Hungarian Protestant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u61	Thank you. With the factual remark of Mrs Miroslava Němcová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u62	Thank you for the floor. I just want to set the record straight with my colleague Martin Novotný on the fact that the Chamber of Deputies has not generated any position concerning the current situation in the European Union. There are two exceptions. One is from February 2015, when we called on the government as a parliament not to accept mandatory quotas or any form of quotas that subsequently appeared. And although the House confirmed this clear position, the government did not follow it. The second resolution was from March this year, when the Chamber of Deputies asked the government not to accept the impossible conditions of Turkey, such as visa liberalisation, and the President, after the House voted, told us that this position would not be followed by Parliament. So here we see the differences between the British traditional parliament, its concept of democracy, and what dispute we have with the government. And I leave that aside, since the beginning of 2015, at least we have desperately enforced any debate on migration, the European crisis, and we have overcome the immeasurable obstacles that the government has put in the way of this debate. And it has always been, except for some coercion, when she knew it had already escalated, that she simply had to let go of the debate in plenary, and it happened in those two cases where a resolution was adopted, which then the government did not take seriously. This, I think, has also unfortunately undermined the debate within the Czech Republic, has escalated opinions within the public, which I think is losing confidence that our government will cope with the situation, just as British citizens have lost it in their government and in European bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u63	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Schwarzenberg is now duly registered. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u64	Mr President, honourable Members present - otherwise I greet this empty House. It was interesting that many of the key issues of today's policy and foreign policy for the Czech Republic aroused such great interest among us Members that I see, above all, empty seats here. But that's aside. I think we should really take a look at what happened. We must not forget that there are 50 years behind us to build the European Union from the Treaty of Rome until today, which is an extraordinary, successful history. We must not forget what was achieved by the peaceful at that time. We must not forget how much of our prosperity and the rise of our country, the reconstruction of our industry, the repair of our cities and so on would not be possible without the European Union. We should at least realize that sometime. And we also need to realize, when we look at history, that the unification processes were usually accompanied by bloody wars, whether it was Italian unification, German unification, both needed three wars. That even unification of the United States required several wars and then civil war before the United States got its final form. On the other hand, we have really achieved much without a drop of blood in Europe. Of course, the European Union is getting on our nerves. To me every day by some step, by some useless regulation, sometimes by not very prudent statements made by its representatives. But all of this, when I compare with what has been achieved, are really little things. Now to the brexit itself. I happened to be in London two days after brexit happened. It was interesting for me that, after the outcome of this referendum, which was quite close, a massive movement in the UK was raised pro-European, which was not at all until then, because most people took it for granted. And as people told me, who themselves supported Brexit, they voted in favour, never expected them to win. They never expected to really get in the position of having to leave the European Union. They express it - as many screams of people who are screaming at the European Union in our pub, they are complaining about the European Union. So we need to see all of this in this context as well. [[20.00 hours]] But let us ask what the task of the Czech Republic is in this situation. I would say, and my predecessors have rightly said here that it is a really sad fact and harmful for the Czech Republic if the United Kingdom had finally left the European Union. He still has two years to negotiate. Let's see what comes out of it. But I think we should avoid all the strong words. If I ever hear it from Brussels, Paris or others today, but unfortunately in the House, they're good enough to go, we'll give them a kick to leave as quickly as possible, so it's a deep mistake. Let us not forget, Great Britain is the fifth largest economic power in the world. He has a very successful policy, he has an excellent army, a fleet and an air force. In many ways, it is a role model for all European countries. Therefore, I'm sorry, we, who had a different history, should not be here today to condemn them. On the contrary. The task of Czech politics should be to dampen emotions in Brussels, establish links with all parties and try to ensure that relations for the future, whatever they may be, are the closest between Great Britain and the EU. Not punishing the rebellious Brit, but long-term and patient negotiations on the new form of our relations, us, the EU, and Great Britain are necessary today. And the Czech Republic can contribute to one thing here. Do you remember how Czechoslovakia fell apart? At that time both parties argued, so to the world's amazement they found a peaceful solution, not a slap in the division of the Republic, let alone a shooting like in Yugoslavia. And it was possible that both sides, as well as the Czech side, behaved really generously then, we were really friendly with the Slovák, Slovák in a lot of us. It was a friendly and friendly meeting and let us admit that it contributed to our excellent relations with Slovakia today. Whoever's in charge or who's in charge in Prague, those relationships are excellent. We should tell this to Brussels sometime. How it is worthwhile not to lose common sense in a critical situation and to be helpful to your partner during the divorce. I would ask the Czech Government to speak in this sense in Brussels. It is from our experience and from our need that we continue to maintain close relations with Great Britain. They play a bigger role for us than we see at first sight. Here is a great task for Czech diplomacy and for the Czech Government to really help sober thinking take place on both sides. Even in Brussels and in the capitals of our partners in the EU. Thank you for your attention and I wish the Prime Minister and Secretary of State good luck in negotiations over the coming months and years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, have a nice evening. Thank you, too. Now, with priority rights, the Prime Minister is reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u66	Thank you. I will really try to respond very briefly to the debate that has been going on here so far. I think that we should continue with it in the working group, where representatives of parliamentary political parties will be invited, so that we can use the summer to try to find some identical points in terms of the position of the Czech Republic, first of all, on the conditions for the departure of Great Britain from the EU and secondly on how the EU should change. It is clear that the EU has not ended with brexit. I'd like to reject all these catastrophic visions that have been overshadowed here by decay, decay, extinction. Neither the UK will perish, nor the EU will die. And I welcome what has been said here that we should approach these negotiations with Great Britain rationally, calmly, and that the Czech Republic should be the country that brings the peace into it. It is clear that we must agree with the Brit to settle our relations, but it must be an agreement that will be mutually beneficial. And I don't think it's gonna be easy at all. It is clear, and I agree with what has been said here that the transatlantic link between the EU and the United States is weakening by Britain leaving the EU. I also think it is important that cooperation between NATO and the EU is strengthened. I hope that this will also be declared clearly during the Warsaw Summit. I want to go back to what was very loud in the debate here, to think about why the Brit have actually decided to leave the EU. They decided in a referendum. The result was relatively close, but it was the result that was obvious. There were more opponents in the Union who came to vote. You may recall that Europe has prepared a certain offer for the UK. It prepared some proposals for amendments that were negotiated before the referendum took place. The Czech Republic and V4 also contributed significantly to this. And even then, from the perspective of the agenda opened by David Cameron, it was clear how he felt the problems in British public opinion. And I'm going back to what I said here and what Mr. Benešík said. One of the main topics that decided on the outcome of the British referendum was the situation on the British labour market. Of course there were other topics. There was a debate about how many Brit people were taking into the common budget. There was debate on the extent to which they had to adopt common EU legislation. But this clearly was not the reason for last year's migration crisis, because Britain has a negotiated exception - it is not part of Schengen. It has a negotiated exception with regard to European asylum policy. That means this was not a topic that would resonate in the debate before the referendum. This topic was a question of the presence of a large number of people from Central and Eastern Europe, including Visegrad countries in the British labour market and the problems it has brought about from the perspective of some Brit people. And when we look at the centrifugal tendencies that are in Western Europe, what's happening, the debate in France, it's happening in Holland, it's happening in Britain. What's this debate all about? There's a question about posting workers. They're running around social dumping. It is around the fact that people from Central and Eastern Europe are willing to work for much lower wages than employees in these countries. The campaign is turning a lot against the EU enlargement that took place ten years ago. I really want us to reflect reality in this debate. And the reality is touching us directly, and I think it touches us very strongly, because the Czech Republic is one of the countries that came to Europe. We have taken advantage of the fact that the old Member States have gradually opened up their labour market to us. Our people work there, live there, work there, study, and, of course, the creation of this problem affects us as Čech in a significant way. And I'm sorry that no one here in this debate mentioned what we're gonna do about it. [[20.10 hours]] There has been talk of EU reform, but the main problem has not been mentioned, these are the huge differences that are at the standard of living between the old and the new Member States. Huge wage differences. And we experience it every day, we're at the limit of the break. We have borders with Germany, we have borders with Austria. How to make an economic policy in Europe that will promote the convergence of living standards? When we talk about reforms, they can't be reforms for reforms. We always want something concrete, useful for people who live in Europe in terms of their real problems. And what people feel is the question of security, what they feel is the question of economic growth, jobs. So please, let us make a realistic assessment of the reasons that led the Brit to make their decision so that we don't jump to any conclusions and think it doesn't concern us at all. It would also be good to clarify whether we want to reform the European Union or whether we want to step out of it. Because those who propose that we leave the European Union can hardly talk about any reform. We can only do this reform if we sit behind the negotiating table if we have our influence in Europe. Yes, we can multiply it by operating within the V4. It is not possible for the reform of the European Union to be negotiated in formats other than format 27. This must also be the basic platform where the negotiations will take place and where the decisions will be made. But we also meet with our colleagues from V4, we coordinate, that is, we also use formats that are different from those of 27. But there must not be conclusions, there must not be decisions, those other countries must not be faced with a finished matter only on the grounds that a group or part of the countries of the European Union have agreed. And I would like to conclude by also clarifying the reform of the European Union. The European Commission cannot make changes. This must be initiated, supervised by the European Council. That is where the Heads of Government of the various European countries sit. The Commission can prepare documents for these changes, it can calculate these matters, it can give legal opinions on them. But we cannot ask the Commission - and it would be wrong for us to ask it - to propose what changes should be made in the European Union. This must be the initiative of the Member States sitting on the European Council. This should be discussed in the European Council. And I hope that this debate will also take place at a meeting in Bratislava in September, and that the Czech Republic will definitely, and I can guarantee that and promise you, participate in this debate clearly and actively. Thank you for today's discussion, for the topics that have been raised in it and I am ready, and I say this for the whole government, we are ready to discuss it with the opposition and look for common proposals on which we agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u67	Thank you, too, Prime Minister. I'm recording two factual points. Mr Stanjura has the first. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u68	I would like to respond, under the Rules of Procedure, to the speeches of some previous speakers. I'm really surprised by the courage of some of us who know why the Brit decided to perform. I think there were a thousand and one reasons. You're accentating one here. But the fact that they're payers that somebody promised them they'd have more money for the health system because they're upset by senseless regulation, bureaucracy, that's one reason next to another. And until there are some high-quality sociological surveys available, that's all it is. Let's take this as a fact. I've noticed some sort of reprehensible performances against the Brit here. How dare they do that. I think it's a false tone that it shouldn't be. And the Prime Minister is right about the Council and 27 prime ministers. But be careful. How did it all start, who had a meeting after brexit? Twenty-seven countries or six founding members? And that's what we have to say from the start, like the state, that it's wrong. We can't wait for six founding members to make a deal and then say - so be with us at a hard core or nothing. So it's not so clear that everyone wants to argue in the 27th format. That's just not true. And I think it's our job to formulate a national position, to look for allies, first among their neighbors or in the V4, or where they'll be willing to listen to us, and try to get ahead. And one more thing. Let us not forget that some of our neighbours, who have the most European integration at heart or mouth, have blocked our access to the labour market! For seven years, those who tell us about the free movement of persons, capitals, services have blocked Czech citizens' access to their markets. I just want to say, let's not forget it, let's be fair. And on the contrary, the Brit have made it possible from the very first moment. And we shouldn't forget that either. We should appreciate that. Just like the Prime Minister did today. That's right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u69	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Sklenák. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u70	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate is clearly not going to come to a conclusion. We've been acting here for more than two hours. Even participation in the negotiations, I would say, not entirely corresponds to the seriousness of the subject. I believe that the views of the various factions have been expressed here. The Prime Minister's information has been heard here, and I think it would be a good idea to interrupt the debate at this point and return to it after the holidays, and I therefore make a procedural proposal to interrupt this item in the September meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u71	Okay. It's a procedural proposal. I will put it to a vote without debate. [[Mr Stanjure is reporting.]] Yes, of course. If you have a counterclaim against this proposal, please bring it forward.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u72	I'll make the counterproposal. I find it quite bold to say that the debate is not coming to an end when one member of the Chamber of Deputies is registered. Not 10 plus 1, but 1 plus 0. So if anyone needs a break, I have a procedural counter-proposal to suspend the hearing for five minutes. I do not know if Mr Snopek wants to speak until the 21st hour until we can act and vote. If it's not enough, then it's reasonable to interrupt. If that time is enough for him, we can vote. It's not our fault. We're 10 out of 16. I see those empty government benches. But it is not our fault that, in our view, the key point of this meeting, the really key point of this meeting, is taking place under such a small participation by our colleagues. It's just not the ones in the O.R. That's what I'm saying to those who aren't here right now. I think that in September we can get information not from the Prime Minister on the situation in the EU, but from the Prime Minister on how political negotiations between the political parties represented in Parliament have progressed. Whether they found a matching national position or not. I assume that this will be the point here and that we will discuss it as one of the priorities, if not the first priority of the September meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u73	Thank you. I therefore note your counter-proposal to suspend the meeting for only five minutes and then continue to discuss this point. I want to ask if anyone else has a counterproposal against what President Sklenák has made. [[This is MP Sklenák.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u74	Yes, it is true that there is one debater in the debate at the moment. But let me remind you, there were four of them at the beginning. It's just by using priority rights and factual notes, so that time for one logged in -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u75	I apologise for entering into your debate, Mr President, but make a procedural proposal. There is no open debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u76	Yes. Please let me finish, Mr President. I really consider it undignified to vote in this situation, and therefore I would like to ask for a break at the meeting of the Social Democracy Club by 21 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-30-ps2013-048-03-005-217.u77	Okay. Thank you for justifying your proposal. I interrupt this point and interrupt this meeting until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Thank you.
