ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-003-004.u1	4. Proposal for the Public Procurement Act (Departmental Press 637/9/ - returned to the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. The resolution has been delivered to you as House Press 637/10. I welcome Senator Radek Martínek among us. I ask that the Minister for Regional Development Karla Šlechtová speak for the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and for the amendments tabled. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-003-004.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Senator, I am presenting to you here a returned draft of the Government Procurement Act, where the various parts of this law, which we have also discussed here in the Chamber of Deputies, were debated at the Senate meeting. The Senate returns this proposal with an amendment, namely changes in the date of effectiveness. This law left the Chamber of Deputies with a date of application three months after its publication in the Collection of Laws. The Senate proposes six months to become familiar with this law, mainly for territorial contracting authorities. I would like to mention a few things that tie to this law. This is indeed a completely new law. It's not a novel. We want to cultivate both the contracting environment and the candidate environment. I must say that we are already getting information that this law is really being awaited. Some entities are even holding back their contracts and are already waiting for a new law. Of course, as a petitioner and also as a gesture of the national coordination body, I must also mention the risks associated with this law and its effectiveness. Today is 19. 4. and from now on this law should be effective, because until yesterday we basically should have transposed three European directives. What are we in danger of? It is a standard procedure that the European Commission takes towards all legislative steps. This is, of course, the European Commission's management against the Czech Republic, which can be assumed to have been received. However, the secondary effect of efficiency, whether it is three months or six months, has, of course, an impact on all contracts co-financed from European sources, especially in that case, because from now until the period of application of this law, contracting entities will follow existing legislation. It is, of course, possible that the European Commission will take a so-called position on this approach, which will say that we will receive so-called flat correction from today to the time of application of this law. However, in order to get acquainted with this new law, we as the Ministry of Regional Development are already doing many trainings. For example, today my employees train judges, we train the Police of the Czech Republic, we train the Ministry of Justice, we train the SAO, of course, other subjects, resorts, regions, municipalities, of course, except schools. Of course, we have the plan planned, and we're able to handle it for three months or six months. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-003-004.u3	Thank you, Minister. I ask if Mr Lukáš Pleticha, who is rapporteur for the Guarantee Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, wants to speak first about the amendments tabled by the Senate - that is not the case, Mr Jan Birke of the Constitutional Committee - is not the case. I am opening a debate in which Mr Jan Klán was the first to come forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-003-004.u4	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, Mr. Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen. To begin with, allow me to justify a certain extension for a period of six months. I'll vote for the Senate version. In particular, two reasons lead me to do so. The first reason is the discussion with the mayors, where they fear that the law will be both complex, he is partly complex, like every law on public procurement, is a completely new law, as the Minister said here. I've said many times here in this debate that this is the first anti-corruption law. This is one of the key laws that I am defending and defending here, because of course it is necessary to implement the directive of the European Union. But the second factor that leads me to support the Senate version is that some countries in the European Union will not be able to implement the directive anyway. So maybe we were in a hurry here, under some arguments, of course, that we would be suspended from subsidies and various things. I understand, of course, that the directive should have been implemented by 18 April at the latest. I understand that. That's the way it's normally and clearly given. And then we must immediately inform the Commission of the wording of the implementation in our legal order. Between then, I was looking for various information on the state in which other countries of the European Union are in, and now I will give you a brief introduction. For example, the legislative process has already been completed in Slovakia, so they have already completed the implementation. In Hungary, the Public Procurement Act implemented by the Public Procurement Directive was announced on 2 October 2015 in a collection of laws, so it has also been implemented. In Poland, the bill was passed by the Council of Ministers, and it will now be forwarded to the Sejm. In Austria, the draft law - the directive on public procurement has already been transposed into Austrian law and was unanimously approved by the National Council on 10 December last year and subsequently by the Federal Council. However, there are countries, countries of the European Union that are not able to do so. For example, Belgium is one such country. In Belgium, the draft law was forwarded by the Government to the Council of Representatives of Belgium on 25 January 2016. So they're way behind us, and they're planning implementation sometime in October or November of this year. [[16.50 hours]] Many times already mentioned by Finland - the new public procurement directives have not yet been fully implemented, but their timely implementation remains a priority of the Finnish Government. France - Directive 2014/23/EU was partly implemented on 29 January 2016 and will gradually be fully implemented before the end of the implementation period on 18 April. In Holland, the bill was put on the agenda of the House of Representatives' plenary session of the Netherlands, i.e. since 29 February this year. Croatia. The government process for the adoption of the bill will begin on 7 March, so they are also behind. For example, Cyprus - The implementation bill has not yet been referred to the House of Representatives of the Republic of Cyprus. In Lithuania, the new public procurement directives should be implemented by 18 April, but according to the available information I have, the directives will not be implemented until then. Hungary, I was talking about this, about Poland as well, but in Poland they have the problem that implementation should be completed in June 2016. In Portugal, the new public procurement directives were partly implemented by the 2015 Act. As regards, for example, Sweden, the bill should be passed to Parliament in April 2016, but it will probably not be discussed until the end of this year. These are the arguments that I use to vote in favour of the Senate version, which in some way postpones efficiency for another three months, so that, of course, it can be explained and, in my opinion, there is no rush, of course, when other EU Member States have a problem with implementation. Finally, I'm going to make a little comment on the bill. Of course, I supported him at third reading, I have no problem with him. There's a lot of very good stuff in there that's been worked out. For example, not-for-profit organizations have a problem with this, which I think is their problem. I am glad that we managed to push some things through there either on the committee or here at the Chamber of Deputies meeting. As I have already announced, I will, of course, be for the Senate version, and if the Senate version fails, I will support the House version. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-003-004.u5	I thank Mr Klán. Another duly registered member is Mr Petr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-003-004.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, we have a very spicy situation here where the representative and former Minister for Regional Development Radko Martínek is coming to defend the amended version of the Public Procurement Act, which says: the effectiveness needs to be shifted six months, because it is not real in practice that those who are touched in such a short period of time are able to teach the law and use it in such a way that he has a chance at all to be perfectly used, which is what we have pointed out here as opposition Members in the first, second and third readings, but Minister Šlechtová, I would like to quote: "I want to say here what we are at risk. If there is no law, we can expect to receive a letter from the European Commission about a month from the European Commission to suspend all payments for European subsidies." Well, I wonder who's right, whether the current Minister of Regional Development or the Minister, excuse me, or the former Minister of Regional Development, a member of the largest government coalition, a parliamentary club, where I think you're breaking up in this, because social democracy in the Senate is the club's strongest. I must say that if the proposal to shift efficiency by six months came to the Chamber of Deputies, I would certainly support it, but I cannot support the law as a whole for several reasons and I will say at least some of the main reasons that bother me. The first one is multi-work in over-the-counter contracts in a single procedure without publication, in simple terms without a tender. Those with an over-the-counter contract may have more work than 50 percent. This is how you passed the law, and I consider that to be a serious reason not to vote for the law at all. I think it was a huge mistake. The second serious reason is that Czech companies will have to uncover their own structure when applying for public contracts in the Czech Republic, not abroad. I consider this to be a second serious mistake, which will lead to a trend that we are criticizing together. For foreign companies, just an honest statement, the government coalition doesn't mind, Czech companies will have to uncover the structure. Again, these are two things that bother me extremely, and even though I'm more of a fan of the Senate proposal, which more or less confirms one of our comments, and serious comments that the bill is being made in a hurry. The Minister here admitted - a hundred amendments made by the Ministry of Regional Development? About 34 were their own, or at least in our public administration committee, because it was all done under great time pressure, and plus dozens more, maybe 70 amendments were taken over by individual Members from the Ministry of Regional Development, and what quickly arose under pressure was corrected. I think that if we had more time, and I don't think it went through one or two votes on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee, to ask that we discuss this at the next meeting, I think that we could still do a number of things to improve the law, such as removing the chance to have 50 percent more work. Fifty percent more work on over-the-counter public procurement in a single procedure without publication! I - at least those of you who have ever been members of the government, whether local or regional, you have to know what it's about. That if someone competes for a billion in JŘB, so that they can have up to 50 percent more work, we really didn't help public contracts in the Czech Republic and their transparency, although you often say that this will happen. So don't be angry, but that really doesn't support either of those proposals, however much I agree with the senators that moving efficiency is a wiser solution. The question is whether the Minister will be right or if it does not touch the Czech Republic and ultimately it will not be right that the Czech Republic will stop the EU's financial flows completely, because the law will not be valid yet. I don't think that's gonna happen. I am convinced that, and I said it here at first and second reading, that the European Commission will be lenient in this regard, regardless of the fact that Europe has completely different problems than assessing the details of the Public Procurement Act, I think, at this time, especially when it is being discussed by the Chamber of Deputies at that time and there is already specific material for plenary. I think this has not yet happened in any EU country, so that someone should be sanctioned in a situation where the draft law, which has touched the relevant European directive, has been discussed by the House or Parliament of the relevant European country, so that the European Commission considers this to be a non-compliance with EU rules. [[17,00 hours]] From my point of view, the law is bad at least for the two things I've named here. I do not want to delay any longer, but these are the things that I think are calling to heaven and should change in the future in any case if the government MPs agree with them today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-003-004.u7	I thank Mr Bendl. I have two factual points before Mr Grospič, duly registered. First of all, Mr Ivan Adamec, then Mr Jiří Koubek. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-003-004.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, colleagues, colleagues, I confess that today, as former senator of the Senate, I was pleased in both cases. In the first one, it actually caused the refund of the non-approval of the bill, which was discussed here in such a turbulent way. In this case, the extension of the time limit for the law to apply. I don't know. Sounds like military to me. Most of the gentlemen who are here in this venerable assembly have certainly been in the army, and there has always been a hurry to wait a long time. It looks exactly the same to me. I'm not gonna say anything more about the bill, because I've spoken here several times. However, I only have a brief question for the Minister. It concerns my one amendment that involved the electronisation of public procurement when I criticised that it was not written directly in the bill, but how it will be dealt with by a special decree, with the fact that I have now found out about the national electronic tool where various doubts about its functionality are expressed in the future. And since I know that the intention is that, in fact, within two years, the Ministry should use it compulsory and in 2020, everyone else must, which I do not like at all, because I would rather see the competition of the private sector there, I would like to know what it looks like with this instrument, because the reports that I have registered have not been very reassuring to me. Thank you for your attention and thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-003-004.u9	Good afternoon, honourable Members. Let's keep going. I thank the honourable Member for complying with the time limit on the point of fact. I will ask my colleague Grospič to be patient, because there is still a factual remark from Mr Jiří Koubek. Then Mr Grospič, who is duly applied for. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-003-004.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make a factual comment on the Minister's speech. I'm only responding now because I was looking for it in the explanatory statement to the law. I will interpret the Minister's words when she said here that some new contracting authorities are already waiting for a new form of law and delay public procurement. So I looked it up because I know that the secretary had it processed in her draft law, specifically in the explanatory memorandum somewhere on page 184, graph 27 Development of the open contracts and number. There is a graph sometime from January 2011 to December 2014, with the fact that twice in the course of this there has been an amendment to the Public Procurement Act. It is clear from the graph that, on the contrary, contracting entities are always in a hurry. They are in a hurry to award public contracts under the existing law. When the amendment was valid from the fourth month, i.e. April 2012, six times more contracts were awarded in March under the old law than in the following month of April. So the Minister's argument that the contracting authorities are delaying because they are waiting for a new law is exactly the opposite. He's totally odd. From my own experience, as I could talk to the mayor, everyone will be in a hurry to carry out the contracts they are planning according to the old law. Now we're not assessing whether the old law is better or whether the new one is better at something. But they know him, they're ready for it, and the contracts will be done by the old man. That means, I think it would be good for the Minister here to argue honestly and truthfully. And if he doesn't know, let him read his own reason message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-003-004.u11	Thank you, Mr Koubek, for keeping time on the point of fact. We will continue by speaking with Mr Stanislav Grospič. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-003-004.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government and my fellow Members, I will join my predecessor because I wanted to say exactly what he said here in his point of fact - that the effect has the upcoming law completely opposite. Those who can, and municipalities are beginning to take advantage of it, are trying to make use of the existing old law on public procurement, because there are quite a lot of concerns about the new one that has actually been passed by the Chamber of Deputies. He has already returned from the Senate with one amendment. I would like to say that it is so symbolic, because the original law number 137/2006 Coll. It's been ten years. I am not quite sure if the directives that impose this on us mean 2014/18 European Directive 2014/23/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of concessions and Directive 214/25/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of contracts by entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors and repealing Directive 2004/17/EC, whether they present this and whether the Czech Republic is actually exposed to a risk of delay and penalties unless a new law on public procurement is implemented quickly enough. I think that my previous speaker, colleague Klán, has made it quite clear that there are a number of Member States of the European Union that are in the process of implementing these laws, or even their preparation, and not quite clearly also take these European Union directives into account, that they are aware that they are bringing a number of problematic places and inequalities to entrepreneurs who are based in their mother countries. It also bothers me that companies that operate and have their headquarters in the Czech Republic and apply for public contracts will be able to and have to disclose their ownership structure, while foreign companies, companies from other countries, will basically be exempted from this obligation by an honest declaration. This, I think, sets unequal conditions, and in terms of combating crime and combating the black market and spilling financial capital, it is quite an essential thing that should not appear in this law. What further leads me to do this, and I was talking about it here at the beginning when the law first came to the Chamber of Deputies, that it is so bulky and so graphically described in contrast to the previous 2006 law that it will be very difficult for municipalities and other public bodies to deal with it. However, I think that we could at least, in this situation, comply with the simple and quite clear amendment tabled by the Senate to the Parliament of the Czech Republic, and that is to postpone the period of legisvacation for at least six months and create an environment that is at least partly adequate for municipalities or other public bodies to learn about the terms of this law. Unfortunately, I have a personal impression, which confirms to me a number of mayors of smaller municipalities, that it primarily creates a potentially environment for the large business of various companies, which will be used to provide public procurement services, and that it will be the very life of municipalities, and especially those of small and medium-sized municipalities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-003-004.u13	I thank Mr Stanislav Grospič. The debate continues with the priority right of the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club, František Laudát, so far the last one entered into the debate. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-003-004.u14	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the TOP 09 will not support the Senate proposal, just as it did not support, given, for example, the limit of the multi-working original proposal that left the House. However, we do not think that the Senate's decision was entirely considered because, like the Minister, I also fear that the consequences can be very painful for our country as regards the position of the European Union. Then the question is, and that should be answered by the actors of both the House vote here and the Senate, whether they have considered and have obtained all the data, simply what is less evil. Of course, the media should also address political parties who are responsible for not being affected by implementation by the end of April of this year, when this has been known many years in advance. [[17.10 hours]] I must say in this, I was very disappointed by the behaviour of the previous Minister for Regional Development, today's Commissioner Jourová. What she promised was within about two or three months, and all of the economic committee remember this, the technical amendment to this law. And then she promised that by the end of the year, that means by the end of 2014, this implementation, a completely new form of law will be prepared. Neither of them happened. The technical amendment, where only a few parameters were to be modified, became such a puffed-up proposal, which caused another time slip. Madam Secretary Šlechtová inherited it. And today we are in a situation where it continues with regard to the European Union - if you support the Senate proposal, as if, as I have heard here, this will probably happen - there will be a complete fiasco going on with regard to behaviour towards the European Union. It is simply impossible to blame, as President Zeman did when the Austrian President arrived in the Czech Republic, who also dropped the EIA on Brussels. Everyone knew for almost ten years that the legislation - that there was a problem. And the current government had at least two years to solve the problem. I didn't. In fact, a number of very unpleasant things can happen here. If the mayors, and I understand them, have a problem that they won't be able to act under the new law now - they knew about the European directive for a long enough time. However, I accept that they will not examine any intermediate products, which the directive is that the resulting form in Czech form will still be different. On the other hand, they don't have it in a number of countries yet, so there's no danger, or we don't think there's a... He didn't say it wasn't a threat. Most of the time, it was connected to the sentence "we don't think it's a threat." And I think you should - and now I'm talking to the government, to the government coalition - be precautionary. Always take the worse options than "we think it's going to be okay." They also thought with the EIA - we warned the Deputy Minister of Environment Peštová on the Economic Committee, let her negotiate exceptions in that law in any case. It didn't happen, and the consequences are completely fatal today. And I think that... I can imagine an analogy scenario when I see the European Union's behaviour regarding the recognition of the EIA, that there may be a scenario here, that the mayors, where European money will be, will also quickly compete, and then the European Union will say that it will not give them money because they have followed the old legislation and that they do not recognise it. Or there'll be corrections, and maybe there'll be more. I don't know, because it's still juggling with impressions, concepts, theories and assumptions, but never with facts, or very little with facts. I have suggested here whether it would be worth interrupting this point, for example, by 9:00 tomorrow, so that the coalition either agreed on a unified position or at least to approve the original proposal. I don't think there's any support for that, so I won't even suggest it. However, all I'm saying is, if you approve of the Senate form, you may be able to help the mayors, but it is another huge notch on the way to trouble towards the European Union. Potential, with a high potential risk. Indeed, it is not possible to summon lana meetings and shout something there without knowing the nature of things. It could cost a billion, maybe even more. I'll take it a little bit that it's the same. Really, start working towards the European Union. And how much time does it take to implement the standard? It's been a year. It's been two years? Isn't it time to think about the need to push the officials of all these ministries into the inter-ministerry, that it's probably necessary to make things work better? Because of the non-compliance with the transposition of legislation, I'm afraid this isn't the only law, and it's often baffling... We even offered the last time I went back to the past, then Minister Jourová, not to do it through the interdepartment. The technical amendment, when several numbers were really supposed to change. That we'll take it across the political spectrum as MPs, and we'll just run it through here in 14 days. It didn't happen, and now we can pay for it again. I therefore call on the coalition to agree in some way that will not harm the interests of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-003-004.u15	I thank Mr František Laudát and I see another application with Mr Adamec's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-003-004.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I have been very brief. I do not want to moralize the government coalition or the European Union here. But I'm going to ask the secretary directly what happens if we approve the Senate version. Because I think that's a crucial question. If it's going to be a quarter of a year later, what's going to happen? I don't think anything's gonna happen. But I'd like to hear it from Madam Secretary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-003-004.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. A colleague, Mr Fiedler, is still reporting for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-003-004.u18	Thank you for the floor. I would like to take advantage of the fact that the Secretary is here because we will be discussing the Senate version and the House version. There's a 50% increase in both versions of the multi-work. You're putting it down... even though it's not the subject of the vote, I'm aware of that. But after the martyria that we spent with this law - and I still remember the opening presentation of the Minister here in the House, how she demoted us all here - if you're satisfied with the 50 percent version. Here I think it was said by my colleague Bohuslav Svoboda that the tunnelling contract, the action - the word here may have symbolic meaning - in the construction of the Blanka tunnel in Prague, it also fit with more work up to a limit of 20 percent. And that was probably a real thing where everything couldn't be estimated ahead of time, and yet it went up to 20 percent. Are you satisfied with the 50 percent limit, Madam Secretary? As has been said here by several previous speakers, in my case this is certainly the reason why I cannot vote for this law in either version. I'll leave that responsibility to the government coalition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-003-004.u19	I thank Mr Fiedler and I see no one to report to the debate. No one from the point of view is reporting to the debate either. I'm done with the conversation. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Madam Secretary? [[Yes.]] Wow, newsletters? [[No.]] Yes, this is Secretary Šlechtová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-003-004.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Senator, it is usually that when I start talking, we are here again for two hours. So I will only comment on what I said here at first reading in the Chamber of Deputies, second reading in the Chamber of Deputies, third reading in the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Czech Republic. First thing. Grabbing the words that some mayors are waiting. Mr President said that they are not actually waiting because they are afraid of what will be the increase in those contracts. Well, you know, it's actually been a month-on-month increase before a novel because every novel tightened up a hundred and thirty-seven. This is a completely new law. So he has completely different rules. But we can, of course, grab each other's words. My reaction is that way. Even the captains are waiting for this new law. Some say that officially. So if we can google it, there's no problem finding it in the media. As far as the impact is concerned, I'm going to take that as a last resort. Subsequently, I would like to respond to Mr Adamec through Mr President about the electronisation. The mandatory electronicisation of public procurement is regulated by European directives. The government, not this, last time, created a tool, a national electronic tool, which is at the Ministry of Regional Development. It is an instrument that is offered, and this government has approved that it will be obliged, not in 2020, but in 2018. If Mr Adamec, through Mr President, was referring to yesterday's statement by the SAO, I gave a press conference that I had no problem with. And it's true what the NKÚ found. You know, for example, that I suspended this instrument, and I didn't put it into sharp operation for eight months. At this point in the national electronic tool we have about 300 contracts of 7 billion. Crowns. The system's working. You just have to check it out. If it's not functional, of course let someone turn to us. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] As far as Mr Fiedler is concerned about the percentage. The question was directly to me whether I was satisfied with 50 percent. So the European Union, the European directives -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-003-004.u21	Madam Secretary, I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace. In the debate, several questions were raised to Minister Šlechtová, who is presenting this bill, so please, if she answers, let her explain her position in peace. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-003-004.u22	As the promoter of this law, the Ministry of Regional Development could basically leave in the law and in some way fight for 50 per cent here, what is proposed by the European directive, and what is standard in European states. I would just like to clarify here, because even in the Chamber of Deputies, negotiations on changes in contracts have somehow been narrowed down to percentages - unless more work is properly justified in the context of over-the-counter contracts, of course it is only up to the contracting authorities and purely the contracting authorities to agree to an individual change of 50 per cent. We've done sample examples, and even if there's an individual change of 50 percent, these changes can be several, overall it's 30 percent, we can get below the 30 percent overall, but of course these are mathematical models. So I won't respond to whether I'm satisfied. I stand by the law as it is written. In terms of shares, as well as in the first and second readings, I will repeat what I have been saying here. It's ruled out in this law...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-003-004.u23	I understand that, Madam Secretary, but I've already called for peace once, and I'd like to ask the crowds to discuss possibly other things outside the O.R. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-003-004.u24	Thank you, Mr President. This law excludes as unbooked shares, that is, for the anonymous, and anonymous shares with our suppliers, but then it is excluded as a conflict of interest found in the uncovered property structure even in foreign ones. I have explained here national legislation, European legislation and other things. In the end, I might want to say two things. First of all, what Mr Bendl said. Yes, I said it again at second reading, at third reading, the MMR gave an amendment that had about a hundred points, it was formal amendments. If they hadn't been admitted, nothing would have happened. Nothing would happen. So they just didn't have to accept, and I thank you for accepting it. I'm glad you did. However, we can talk about this here every time I may be presenting another novel. The law has a new system, a new structure. It's a new law, the guidelines are completely different, and we were trying to simplify it. I'd like it not to fit in here, too. Now, about the consequences. I said it in the first, second reading, I said it in the Senate, and I insist, and I'll do it again. If you had a minister here who wouldn't draw your attention to the risks, what would you do as legislators then if there were infringement or other things and you didn't even know about it? You'd blame the minister. I have a duty and I confess to you, Chamber of Deputies. I am your executive, and I must inform you of the potential risks, and I have repeated those risks at all readings of the Chamber of Deputies, and I will repeat them again. I am not the European Commission, I do not know what the European Commission will do, but I can tell you what it has done for example. for infringement, when the Czech Government did not agree to two major European sites a few weeks ago. Infringement came in three weeks. Here and since other countries - and I am glad that even Mr Klán has done the statistics, we may not get the infringement, but I have an obligation to inform you. And if we get him, of course it means fines, penalties, and subsequently. Regarding what Mr Bendl said, and I would have responded through the President. What I have said here is that the European Commission may suspend payment of payments. Yes, that is possible, because the Czech Republic has such an image in the European Union that contracts are in the first place where the European Commission considers actually the major shortcomings caused by corruption. So, yes, we have such an image, such a bad image, that I believe that the European Commission, of course, has a different meter on us. There's one more thing I'd like to say, and we say it a lot. The Czech Republic is a sovereign state. We are all repeating this here, all political parties say that the Czech Republic is a sovereign state. So we're not going to monkey after other countries that may not have transposition directives by the end of this year. On the contrary, we are trying to do something to eliminate all the possible problems that may arise with the fact that we, like us, as sovereign republics, the Czech Republic, do not have the effectiveness of this law in time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-003-004.u25	Thank you, Madam Secretary, and I ask - does the senator want to perform? Reporters Lukáš Pleticha and Jan Birke, if they're applying. He's not reporting. Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-003-004.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Ministers, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, I would like to briefly mention here why The Senate proceeded to this proposal as it proceeded. Many have been said here, but the senát has carefully considered, of course, that there have also been a number of comments within the Senate on the individual partial points, as is the case here, as some of you have recalled. However, I must say that the Senate ultimately united, practically united, virtually. all its committees have adopted a single position on the whole matter, in such a way that it cannot interfere with the factual wording of the law. Among other things, because we assume that the wording of the law, as it went to the Chamber of Deputies, is discussed with the European Commission, virtually. its representation here, and if we were to just change something that was negotiated in this sense, that could be why the European Commission could somehow address the matter. I'm telling you this with full knowledge, as it is, because in 2006, I was the one who made the bill, from which, by the way, there was no stone left on the stone in the last ten years. The European Commission also said that if we do not have the law, the Czech Republic will not draw money. I would just like to point out to you that we were actually after the entry, and it was the first big money we were supposed to draw from the European Union. However, if we have agreed and respected the European Commission's requirements for the wording of the law, then the European Commission has also agreed as such. It was -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-003-004.u27	Mr Senator, I will interrupt you, too, and I will try to persuade the Members to let you explain the position of the Senate, because clearly some of this subject, although very important, does not interest you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-003-004.u28	So practically the same way, if I bring it to this time, if the content of this law is agreed by the European Commission, then in my opinion and my personal experience with the previous discussion, the European Commission has no reason to intervene against the Czech Republic. Another question that has been raised here, and it is actually the only amendment, is the length of time when this law will take effect. This is, as has been said here several times, and you all know it, a complex amendment to the law. This means that we also have to give the consumers of this law the right space and time to prepare for this law for those who still want to complete those contracts and are at a stage of such development that it would cause them significant problems, so they can complete those contracts according to the current text and for that six months sufficient, as well as six months enough to prepare for the new version of the law, notabene, when - as I have verified before I went here - by that time all the implementing rules for this law will be available, which, by the way, is, I would say, quite an exception in our system of law adoption. This means, at the moment the law is passed and will take effect, i.e. before it becomes effective, that law will already have all the implementing provisions at its disposal. That's how I've been assured, and that's certainly how it's going to be when it comes to MMR. [[17.30 hours]] So I think that at this point we're really getting into a comfortable situation so that no one has to make unnecessary mistakes that, as we all sit here, whether we're on the right or on the left, we know how many unfortunates don't have to do with their guilt and simply by mistake or by failing to explain enough individual points, they get into serious trouble. So, like the Minister, I am not the European Commission here, and I cannot tell you how the European Commission will act. However, at a time when a number of countries and decisive quantities have not yet adopted implementation, notabene is a few countries, I suspect about three or four, which have already notified the European Commission that they will not accept them before they are accepted to 1. 1. next year, there is no reasonable reason for the European Commission to intervene against the Czech Republic. It's all debate. But I think that why I suggest that you vote for the Senate version is because the wording, or the possibility of creating a certain space for the consumers of the law, is reasonable. That is why I think it is wise for us to vote on this, or for you to vote on it, and that is why I recommend it to you on the Senate version. However, on the other hand, it is obvious, and I must say that I am grateful to the senators that it has been so in the Senate that we have not tried to interfere with the law negotiated with the European Commission.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-003-004.u29	Thank you, Senator Radek Martínek. We shall take the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I shall make a motion for a resolution. But first, I'm going to check you all out. I'm going to ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Since I asked my colleague and colleagues to discuss outside the O.R., I'll run the gong to summon them. Once the number of applicants has settled, we will decide in the following vote. First of all, the motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the draft law on public procurement, according to the House press 637/9, as approved by the Senate, according to the House press 637/10'. I've started voting number 220, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 220, from 143 present for 106, against 21. The motion was accepted. I note that we have agreed to the bill as approved by the Senate, and we have therefore adopted the Public Procurement Act. Thank you, Minister, thank you, Mr. Senator. We'll continue with point number 5, which is related to the law. Before that, I will read the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, from 6 pm to 6 pm by Mr Vojtěch Adam, from 19 pm to the end of the day for medical reasons by Mrs Radka Maxová and from 18 to 20 pm by Mr Michal Kučera.
