ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u1	30. Government bill amending Act No. 328/1999 Coll., on Civil Cards, as amended, and other related laws /house print 928/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly introduce a bill amending the Civil Card Act and other related laws. According to the legislation in force, there are three types of citizen's IDs, namely a passport with machine-readable data and a contact electronic chip, a identification card with machine-readable data without this chip and a identification card without machine-readable data. The aim of the bill is to introduce civil documents with machine-readable data and a contact electronic chip. Civil IDs with machine-readable data, but without a contact chip, would no longer be issued in the future. A citizen's ID with this electronic chip will be a mandatory personal document of a citizen. It should not only be a means of proving identity in the presentation, but also a means of establishing unique electronic identification. It will be possible to use it for electronic submission on portals of individual ministries within the public administration. In order to ensure the effectiveness of the draft law, this possibility should be ensured by using a guaranteed identity approach with social security and sickness insurance authorities and for electronic communication with the Financial and Customs authorities. Following the entry into force of the proposed act, this type of ID should be issued without an administrative fee. At present, the administrative fee for this type of document is CZK 500. After this proposal, this ID should be free of charge. The law does not foresee a clear exchange of documents or a one-off. Citizen's IDs will be replaced gradually according to how the existing relevant documents will end. The draft law also regulates the information of the citizen by means of a text message or e-mail about the possibility of taking over the issued ID or travel document. The effectiveness of the law is proposed at an annual distance from its publication. This is mainly due to the need to create a technical background for the production of the necessary amount of civil certificates with a contact electronic chip. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u3	Thank you. In this case, I also ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Věra Kovářová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government's proposal for an amendment to Act No. 328/1999 Coll., on Civil Cards, as amended, and other related laws, is based on the social needs of electronic communication between a citizen and public institutions and possibly. even with the private sector. The current legislative regulation allowed the issue of civil documents with a chip for CZK 500 a long time ago, but on the other hand, the state administration was unable to ensure their use in contact with the state. In connection with the introduction of the eIDAS regulation, the Ministry of the Interior presents us with the above mentioned amendment, which introduces a global issue of ID card with a contact electronic chip, where, with the creation of a national identity authority, the state will guarantee maximum use of electronic identification. The effectiveness of the law is determined by the end of 12 months from the date of its publication in the Collection of Laws. [[16.40 hours]] The Ministry of the Interior also states in the explanatory memorandum that with the effectiveness of the bill presented, i.e. the end of 12 months from the date of its publication in the Collection of Laws, the electronic identification of the citizen will be guaranteed by means of an electronic identification card with an electronic chip in the frequent agendas of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance. In other words, this means that it is expected to be possible to make submissions in certain public administration information systems using an identification certificate. Misuse of this certificate will prevent access through personal identification code, respectively. there will be a security, identification, and finally a deblocking code. The costs of issuing new citizens at the current average number of approximately 1.5 million a year will require about 250 million crowns in the first year, in the following years 140 million and, at the same time, an estimate of the individual resorts total about CZK 100 million. I would therefore like to draw attention, as rapporteur, to some fundamental steps linked to the successful implementation of the e-citizen's intention. Firstly, it is a term for the use of an e-citizen. Compared to the original media outputs on the use of e-citizens in 2017, we are actually reaching the second half of 2018, even depending on the successful competition of the state price printer technology. Probably the mass race of the e-citizen will not be associated until 2019. Furthermore, with the relatively long run-up of the e-citizen, the crucial moment of effective use of this tool will be the marketing campaign, among other things, eliminating the negative view of existing citizens with a chip. Secondly, the efficiency of the costs incurred. Since the cost of issuing e-citizens is considerable - it is necessary to add the necessary reader on the user's side - it is essential that the misleading statement in the explanatory statement that the ministries of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance will be prepared for electronic communication through e-citizens, not only on paper, but together with other institutions, respectively. their agenda systems were clearly able to communicate in this way. The third important point is ways of proving identity. Although this amendment only deals with showing identity with the highest confidence guaranteed by the state, it must be admitted and accepted that there are other options at the level of medium credibility that are sufficient in many normal life situations and, for example, in the banking sector, they already work. It is therefore important that the law prepared by the Ministry of the Interior on the demonstration of identity should be submitted to the legislative process as soon as possible. In the sense of the above statements, I propose that the House press 928 be released for second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate and registering three applications. Mr Klán will speak first, Mr Pilný will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u6	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, Mr. Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen. I'll split my performance into two planes. The first performance will offer a different view of the introduction of the electronization of our lives as well as of the entire society, and the second part will focus directly on this government proposal on civil documents. I called the first part of my performance "controlled company." Stations, airports, roads, etc., you're being watched everywhere. You may not even notice it at some point, but it's still looking at you somewhere, just like the inconspicuous eye of the camera that monitors the space in front of you. Thus, from the time of the rise in terrorist attacks, similar supervision in society has increased disproportionately. The constant fear of people's safety has led many states to quietly control their entire space. They use various tools for this, from the use of industrial cameras, monitoring calls, data storage, or the electronization of different phases of our lives. All so that the entire company can be supervised as far as possible. Sociologist Zygmunt Bauman called this phenomenon liquid surveillance. But how in a rapidly changing world, when we have open borders and free movement of people, goods, capital, to preserve a sense of security for a citizen? This is a difficult task. The government of the Czech Republic recently submitted two bills to the Chamber of Deputies, which directly affect the currently controlled society. It is both the Cyber Security Act and the Electronic Civil Card Act. Of course, we can add a directive or an eIDAS regulation to this. The first, i.e. cyber security, is intended to regulate behavior and control on the cybernetic network, or, if you like, in the Internet or in cyberspace. There's a lot of irregularities, a lot of mistakes, and we're gonna deal with this in the eGovernment subcommittee, and then on the Public Administration and Regional Development Committee. The second law we're talking about here is electronic IDs. Here we are, ladies and gentlemen, two factors. For one thing, the state wants to make it easier for people to communicate with the authorities as part of the digitalization of life. Their introduction is intended to remove the bureaucratic burden of running documents and data instead of citizens. This is a reasonable argument. Who'd like to run around the offices all the time today? I'd rather take it all out of the comforts of home and the computer. But things aren't as simple as they seem. The electronic ID card can also be used as an instrument of your control. In this case, your privacy is being violated. Thanks to this card, someone else will have additional control of the person who owns the card. He will have an overview of her movements, who she meets, etc. Everything is technically possible, ladies and gentlemen. On the one hand, it is a positive in a society full of danger because it reduces security risks. On the other hand, this limits personal freedom. For another, such a card and a tool can be shared information that the citizen often doesn't even know about, and he doesn't know that there is such a thing. The above risks will need to be discussed properly in the relevant House Committees, so that we do not put our privacy at risk. I always remember two books in this case, they're two novels. The first novel is a 1984 novel by George Orwell, when he talks about a big brother who will be watching us. It is possible that we are also moving towards this society by introducing civil certificates. I'm not saying it, and I'm not denying it. This novel was relatively timeless and it is also shown, for example, in the case of the surveillance of the US NSA, the National Security Agency. But there's a little different story than here. That's one novel I mean. The second novel is the novel The End of Civilization of Aldous Huxley, which was written in the 1930s - similar to George Orwell of the last century. And he says we'll end up living in a society where there'll be so much information that we can't know it. Maybe we're coming to this company as well. These things also need to be taken into account. At the end of this part, I'm going to take a little bit of a gloss. For example, many people already own their social media profile, where we put our experiences and private things. I quote, we ourselves put our privacy on the line, and that's just so we can share experiences with someone else. We don't mind at all. It's a common phenomenon. On the contrary, we are often glad. Because we often feel lonely in our cyber society today. [[16.50 hours]] Electronic IDs have their backs and cheeks. After all, like everything that's electronic and that's found on the network. The question is whether we are willing to give part of our privacy for control to make life easier, reducing security risks. That's a matter of discussion, but I'm not a priori against electronic IDs. If the rules of operation, communication and security are set so as to avoid misuse of data by other parties, electronic IDs will be of use to us and not to the detriment of us. But I will now return exactly to this material, which is presented here. I have read it carefully and I will have several, this time precise, questions. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2. The possibility of recording other personal data is open. What are the figures in this case? You can upload almost anything you want into the chip. So I can imagine that in a chip, for example. records my blood type, if I have children, my wife, if I am in any way ill, e.g. diabetic. Just if it's possible to put it there. It doesn't say. It merely states that the possibility of a certain entry is opened without stating a specific thing, for example it is not there. So I'm asking exactly what that means. Page 16, 9.2. Efficiency. This legislation should also be followed by awareness. I say, not that it should be an awareness-raising campaign, but she must be quite a campaign to introduce citizens' IDs, which gives us the benefits of that. Because, as I was saying, it's an information society tool. Not all citizens are experienced in various digitizations or computer operators. Some things they don't understand, and even fear, for example. from various chips etc. That is what we need to say here, although it is often speculation, but it is also good to recall. The proposal does not specify how much the reader of the chip will cost. It's not listed there. I couldn't find it anywhere. Because if a citizen wants to communicate on the Internet from home with some authorities, he's gonna have to get a chip reader that's on the ID. Of course, it should be recalled that we already have ID cards with a chip today, but they are issued for a fee of CZK 500 and you can only have an electronic signature on them or an electronic banking certificate, as I learned from this proposal, as it is there. Of course, I approve, but let's ask ourselves whether the chip concept is outdated. Of course, I understand that banks are using it, of course, that you have a chip on your credit cards or debit cards, so it's just a matter of discussion. But that, I suppose, is what Mr Pilný will be talking about here, who is more experienced in this matter. But I have a fundamental question here. The essential issue is the relationship between the validity of the ID and the chip. We're issuing IDs for five, ten and 35 years. I want to ask how long the chip will last. I can't imagine it would have a lifetime of 35 years, just like it's being issued today, that ID card to people over 70 years of age. So this is a fundamental question. Lifetime of the chip versus life of the ID. What does the concept of secure connection mean? In the draft law, this term is used quite often. What do I have under it as a layman, as a citizen who will simply be a user of this connection... Safe connection. I don't understand it a bit, even though I'm a little knowledgeable in information technology. But safe connection - like using an antivirus or in some way other protective elements on the computer. I wonder what the Home Office means by that. That's a crucial question. Again - the RIA is quite processed quite interestingly and well. However, in RIA there is point 7 and these are consultations. And I read that the consultation of changes to the Civil Card Act took place within the Ministry of the Interior. Haven't you consulted anyone else? Because this is a rather serious matter. I don't know, with IT experts. I'm not gonna name any companies that are involved here, but I thought this was pretty smiling that you guys were just doing it inside the resort. It also needs to be put on the outside, because specialists also exist in the private sphere where we need to talk about it. Maybe it's worth considering doing some research, if people are actually gonna use their IDs with a chip at all. Because they can decide by law whether or not to activate the chip. Of course, they'll have a chance to do it later, if they decide at some point. But that also needs to put this thing down. And if you were even investigating as the ministry what people are worried about when this electronic ID is introduced. Whether the pros prevail, that means it will save them time and work and communication with the authorities, or whether they are afraid of the just controlled company that I have outlined here in my first part. That also needs to be clarified. I think I've exhausted all my comments here. I'll wait for the next speakers, maybe I'll sign up for the debate with some comments. That's all I have to say, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u7	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Ivan Pilný, now duly signed in, will be prepared by Mr Běhounek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, I will not be as long as my previous speaker. I'd just say in defense of the petitioners that there's the price of the reader in the explanatory note, it's about 200 crowns. I do not share his concerns about safety. I don't share his concerns about losing his privacy either, because I can't imagine how these things would happen. It's safe enough, it's definitely as safe as the other chip cards that are used in the banking sector. What's causing me a big problem is that I consider the law useless. And I'm gonna try to defend what I just said. If we look at how the law is to be implemented, first of all, we have to say what the chip ID is. It's a piece of plastic with a chip that's going to have an electronic identification of a citizen uploaded to it. It will continue to be possible to record other certificates, which is voluntary. And in some cases, the ID can also be used as an electronic signature. It's all right. But when we look at how the law is designed, it says that from a certain date of validity of this law, which is about a year from now, only the IDs with this chip will be issued. It is clear from this that citizens over the age of 70 are excluded, for example, I am, because they de facto have unlimited citizens. Although there's no limit, I don't think I'm gonna be able to upgrade it by 2051, I don't think I'm gonna be there for that ID. So this group actually has nothing to do with it. Next. Because there's some kind of civil ID interval, and that's 10 years, so if we visualize the linear distribution of the exchange, we can say that if we subtract the first group, that in five years, 40 percent of people will have a chip ID. Not in 2019, but in five years. Since the activation of the certificate is voluntary, let's just say that half of the people are going to have it for some reason that I don't quite understand yet, because I don't know what it's going to be for right now, so half the people are going to do it for. So 20 percent of people will have a piece of plastic with a chip in 2022. [[17,00 hours]] Unfortunately, this seems somewhat unnecessary to me, because at that time, all of you who are sitting here, probably, or most of you, have smartphones, and at that time you will open doors, vote, pay, open cars with smartphones, where the identification can be secured in many different ways, such as fingerprinting. The Home Office is currently piloting this way. The fact that the report states that the Czech Republic will be obliged to recognise electronic identity from September 2018 is true, that is certainly an administrative argument, but it certainly does not apply that the introduction of civil documents with a contact electronic chip is necessary due to maximum use. There will in no way be any general introduction in this way. The law doesn't bother me that it introduces electronic IDs, because why we wouldn't try to introduce something like that as another possible identity, but not the design that is proposed in the law. We already have ways of communicating with the state administration, even under penalization, whether they are data boxes, to which persons who have data mailboxes must file tax returns under penalty, so there are ways to address specific matters relating to the state administration. What finally convinced me to do what I'm about to say is that there is an estimate that the citizens are going to have a visit that is speculatively set at two hours a year, one billion. 742 miles. If that's true, every year we burden citizens with 1 billion. 742 miles. It is clear to me that the reason for this is also because we are adopting a number of unnecessary laws. And this law, as it is presented, is completely useless. That's why I propose to return the petitioner for work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u9	Thank you. I've logged your proposal. Mr Běhounek, who is now duly applied for, will be prepared by Mr Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u10	Mr President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues, the arguments that are being put up here are, of course, both in favour and against. But the national electronic identity, or the identity space that each state should provide for its citizens, should be at the highest level of trust and, if possible, free of charge. As has been said here, since September, pursuant to the eIDAS Regulation, individual States should recognise the systems reported to each other. This means that, while eIDAS does not order the construction of a national identity area, it is necessary for a Member State to deal with this and use these services in the widest possible way in the interests of the population. The aim of this legislation is to enable citizens to carry out electronic identification by means of a machine-readable identification card in contact electronic chips as basic public documents issued to citizens to prove their identity by any supported way. Of course, the individual side effects are also related to this. As has been said, the administrative fee for the ID should be abolished and the State should issue it free of charge. If we do not build this own identity space, we can expect to lose the possibility as a Czech state of any further systematic development and support of services related to the electronic identification of Czech citizens, and what may already happen is that many of our citizens are identified in Estonia or other countries. The Czech Republic should recognise the electronic identification of other reported systems from 29 September and should be prepared for this within the European Union. If we do not create our own identity system that would allow electronic identification, we can get into a situation where private entities will carry out this matter. The controls and possibilities of these systems will then be very difficult for the Czech Republic as a state. If we build our own identity and we don't use our IDs, then of course there is a risk that we won't have a special appropriate means of documenting our identity. eIDAS is, of course, a regulation that binds us with this, but it would be very good if we supported this system and used, as has already been said, an electronic identity card for institutions such as the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, I can imagine health insurance companies and all other related matters. If most states decide to proceed in this way, it would probably be appropriate for us to look for a way to deal with this way. And I strongly support sending this material through first reading to committees to discuss all the questions that have been raised here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u11	Thank you, too. With a point of fact, Mr Pilný is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u12	Thank you once more for the floor, Mr President. I just want to say that we need an electronic identity. We clearly need it as soon as possible, because there are already a number of private entities that create their own identification. Not that they will, they've already done it, and we're using it. We certainly need an electronic identity, we certainly need our own electronic identity, no doubt, but not the one proposed. And once again, I have made a fundamental argument here, and it has not been refuted that after five years of this law, as it is designed, 20 percent of citizens will own this subject. This really is not the fulfilment of some European Union regulations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u13	Thank you. Mr Bendl, now duly applied for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u14	Thank you for the floor. I confess that I am rather confused about the debate that is going on here when the chairman of the Economic Committee, a significant member, certainly cannot be questioned, the coalition of the government, says that, as the proposal is presented, it is pointless that this should be done differently and better. How, then, is opposition to this if even the coalition itself doesn't know how to do it, if you can't agree on which way to go in the government? I understand the President says that it would go better and that smartphones will be able to do it in the future, or they can do it today, read a fingerprint and so on, but it is obvious that your colleagues are not responding at all. So we, as opposition, are faced with the question: Will there be anything at all? Are you guys in any way agreed on which way to go next? Is there any government visions in this area when one hot and the other naked? So you don't want to agree on which way to go first, and then come here with it: Because we actually happened to be across the political spectrum in Estonia, and what we were particularly interested in was using the ID card, if you want, as an access key, where the Estonec can take his ID card, stick it, simplistically say, into a computer or a device connected to a mobile phone and log into a state information network and it can solve a number of things there and the system recognizes which citizen has appeared there, logged in and can communicate with both the register of residents, so it can communicate with the car register, communicate with the register of property, cadastral office and so on and so on and so on. You don't have to do things like this or that Ministry, one or the other state office forces you to download the form, you have to print the form at home, then you have to sign it, you don't need to check it in notarized, and then scan it somewhere and send it back to the office, but in the meantime maybe go to the notary and then send the original there anyway. That's what the Estonian system doesn't know because it can be user-friendly for a citizen. [[17.10 hours]] It's a sad story that you're not able to reason with the government because you have all the means to hire the best computer science in this country and try to come up with something better, modern, if you like. Instead, you bring this proposal. So I say - if only there was something that would serve people, even if it fell out of this government, thank God that something positive would happen in this area. If you come up with something better, I'm sure we're ready to support it. But if you don't have anything better to do with it, what can you actually do about it? I've written down three principles that the Estonec have introduced us to, for everyone's inspiration. Estonec submit their eGovernment to three principles. The state only wants - that's the first - information from a citizen once. He doesn't have to go to the office three times and say, "Yes, here's my birth certificate, here's my I.D., business certificate, etc. etc. He's got it once. In this area, I feel we have huge reserves, Estonia is far ahead of us. Prohibition of duplicate information management. Next. If anyone here processes any form and requests any operational program or ministry for any support, assistance, etc., then with a million information they must go to one place and another million information to the other. I'm exaggerating, a million intel, but you understand what I mean. In short, this simplification could serve to better identify the citizen and have a chance to take advantage of things. What else they've got as a third. The only gateway to information, and that's the ID card. If it's going to be an ID card in the future from my layman's perspective, or if it's going to be possible to do it over a cell phone, it doesn't matter, especially if the system is user-friendly. What the Estonec have told us, because one of the questions was - and that is the response to what you have said here, through the President, the President. We asked how older people cope with this situation, for which the electronicisation of public administration and the general use of the Internet and all that can be done. And they say, well, we have to run these systems in duplicate for a while, because we have to comply with the citizens. But, and I point out, if the system is user-friendly, then it won't be 20 percent, then those people themselves will want it, if we create a system that will simplify their work, save them time, etc. So they themselves will want and will say, Mr. Home Secretary, or whoever's in charge of the faith, give us the ID as soon as possible so we don't have to go around all the authorities next to Mrs. Nováková. I hate to say it, but if we're able to at least do something and not argue that that's even better and that's even better, we need to agree on something that moves us forward, let's move on with this material. And I'm intercede with the opposition MP to move this thing forward and not to step over and over again and say somewhere when we finally have something planned, but there's something better that we can get out of this circle. I'd argue that the I.D. Act should continue to pass. All I have is a sad sigh of the fact that all those who bought a 500-dollar chip in good faith fell on the altar of the state country. Let us hope, then, that even those who paid for it, even those who will pay nothing for the chip in the future, because they have the chip, will have some advantage at all as soon as possible. I would argue too much to move forward on this matter, even once, one day, the debate circle must be closed. Now, while I am aware, and I agree, let me not be completely opposed to the President that every day there is something new about the Internet and the electronic world. And in 14 days or six months, it may not be true what you said here. It's gonna be all over again. But unfortunately, the state is always a step behind, but at least we should do some. It's been going on for a very long time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u15	I thank Mr Petr Bendl. Now the factual points, first Mr Ivan Pilný, then Mr Jiří Běhounek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am a politician too young, so I certainly do not dare instruct the opposition what to do and how to do it. I'm just sticking to the content, and definitely, I still have to say, I'm not aware that I would represent the opinion of the club YES. Everyone has the right to comment on this. I'd just like to ask that we not mix pears and apples here again. No I.D. can solve what Mr. Bendl here said. Things like digital would default or data ounce, they won't move the IDs at all. That's the question of the process, and if anyone can come up with a form that you're supposed to fill out, that I.D. won't be able to get rid of that obligation and that need. So let's not talk about this citizen contributing to something they have in Estonia. No way. That's just a means of identification, the rest is a question of processes that are slowed down in the eGovernment, but the citizen has absolutely nothing to do with it, and it's not going to make the process any easier. And if a group has been mentioned here for over 70 years, which I also belong to, I'm just saying that the law, it's designed, it doesn't count on this group at all, because these people don't have to exchange IDs, so they don't have to have the ID with the chip. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u17	I thank Mr Ivan Pilný. Mr Jiří Běhounek, now. Before I give him my word, I state Mrs Benešová's apology has come to an end of today's day. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u18	Hello again. I thank my colleague Bendl for this position, because when you remember how egovernment was implemented, that several groups across the political spectrum had agreed and moved on, the impenetrable discussions... Of course, Mr Pilný is right in a certain way, but we can wait another ten years for that, and as has been said, there will be something new. If it is to be a safe means of creating qualified signatures under the eIDAS Regulation, it is clearly materialised on the basis of implementing acts. This must be a material carrier fulfilling the requirements of implementing acts and taking into account the fact that an electronic citizen would have such a form of signature certificate, the legal effects of the self-signation, which could be used without Internet connection, i.e. off-line, so then requirements for qualified signature according to eIDAS regulations require materialized network. Similarly, the identification certificate for remote identification at a high level of guarantees - once again the implementing act clearly specifies the requirement for a materialised medium protected by the knowledge code. Then it means yes, we can have a signature with the background over the phone, but it is necessary to use off-line the certified materialized carrier.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u19	Thank you, Mr Běhounka. Now, Mr Petr Bendl, will also be prepared for a factual remark by Mr Ivan Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u20	A colleague of Pilný is wrong because they're actually using theirs, let's call it an ID card, as an identifier, as an electronic signature. It works the same way our credit cards work today towards the banking system. I don't have to go anywhere else to sign anything. I'm able to log in to the relevant registry and it's through me - whether it's an ID or what we're going to call it - just record and take as the person who logged in through this key and can do the operations that the system allows him to do. She doesn't have to print anything, get her autographed, and send somewhere back. He really doesn't have to. And I feel like we're supposed to be getting there. And this can go to that if we want to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u21	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Ivan Gabal's factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I would ask your colleague Pilný - but he is not listening now - to consider some quite important arguments for which I would support this proposal, because the introduction of the chip into the ID card, and I have had the chip card for years completely unnecessary, would allow us, for example. solving direct elections by electronic means for those travelling outside their residence, abroad, etc. But I also believe that the electronic path of voting opportunities would significantly increase the chances of participating in the youngest generation of voters. And that seems to me to be a rather substantial system element. Estonia, mentioned by my colleague Bendl, has this experience quite well worked out, and it also looks significantly different there. So even the temporary application of the ID card with the chip would help us solve a number of problems that, as we have seen in the previous elections, are actually taking on serious proportions in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u23	I thank Mr Ivan Gabal. Mr Jan Klán's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you also have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u24	Thank you for the floor. When I listened to the previous speaker here that it would solve our low vote, I remembered that the introduction of electronic civil certificates is probably unwittingly envisaged by the Health Protection Act against the effects of addictive substances that we will discuss next week on Tuesday. There is one provision that says that in some way they will be able to control you when buying over the Internet, simply that you buy alcohol or tobacco products. But there's no other way to check that than by introducing just electronic civil documents. I'll talk about it just next week on Tuesday. So we unwittingly put in some laws provisions that already count on the introduction of electronic civil documents. That's kind of interesting, maybe even a little smiley, when it happens out there somewhere, and then there's this controversy and conflict. But I have one more question about that electronic chip reader that this guy has to have if he wants to communicate with the authorities. What's the shelf life of the reader, except for the chip, of course, on the I.D.? That's another question. What a lifetime it will be, namely how many years this reader will last at home.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u25	Thank you. And now, therefore, the proper application of Mr Petr Bendl. [[It's not.]] All right, all right. So we're running out of applications. Anyone from the scene? It's not like that. We can therefore end the debate. I'm asking for final words. Mr. Secretary? Yes. The rapporteur is also ready. Please, Minister, you have the floor... final.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u26	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am wondering in vain how long a reader can have a lifetime. I'm thinking maybe as many times as you stick that card in there, and that's probably how it's gonna work. But I can't really answer that exactly. So does the chip. That means, if you use it more often, there will probably be some mechanical damage. If you use it sporadically, it can last 15 to 20 years according to our experts. With regard to the possibility of exchanging a citizen's card voluntarily, I would reply by means of the President, Mr Pilný. We wanted people to exchange IDs voluntarily if they wanted to use the ID card with the chip. We wanted it to be free of charge. Unfortunately, we failed to enforce it against the Ministry of Finance, i.e. there is a payment of 200 crowns. And I don't want to talk to Members and Members, but of course we can adjust that in the second reading and in the final decision, because I also think that the elderly who already have the ID, let's say they don't have to change it for the rest of their lives, and they want a chip that they should have the right to exchange it free of charge. As far as the other issues are concerned, of course, the matter has been consulted with IT specialists, with the ICT Union. I would also like to thank here, on the spot, for the agreement that was made with the ICT Union, and not only the government coalition was present, but there were representatives of the opposition, and it is a very good agreement and a very good start. About the ID card with the chip. The main thing we want is for it to be an indisputable electronic identification when communicating with the authorities. What will be recorded there will be regulated by a special law. That means that special law will determine what data can be uploaded there. It won't be possible to record whatever isn't allowed by this law. Mr Klán, through the President, answered his own question about this enlightenment. Yes, it has to be. Now, let's say we see a certain promotion within the EET system, so I assume that a similar presentation will therefore be prepared in the direction of the use of civil certificates when the time comes. I would also ask the Sněmovna to release it for the second reading. Because that's the basis for another debate. And I think that's the minimum we can do to ensure that citizens can really communicate with the authorities in the near future from the comfort of their home from their laptop or computer, depending on how they like it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u27	I thank the Home Secretary Milan Chovanc for his final word. Before I give the floor to the rapporteur, I state that there has been an apology from Mr Zbyněk Stanjura to the end of the day. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u28	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly summarize the course of the debate. Mr Klán here spoke of a controlled society, cyber security, that the citizen would probably not know that there would be an electronic citizen, and he asked the Minister a number of questions. The Minister tried to answer these questions. Mr Pilný called the bill completely unnecessary and proposed to return the petitioner to the recast. Mr Běhounek recommended that the proposal be passed on to committees. Mr Bendl expressed the wonder that the coalition was unable to agree on one law and gave interesting examples from Estonia. závěr, he stated that he recommended the release of the proposal to committees. Finally, Mr Gabal spoke with the fact that this is the way to electronic elections, allowing young people to participate in elections. I guess that's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u29	Thank you to the rapporteur. That is, before the next decision, the proposal to return the proposal for completion tabled by Mr Pilný. Am I getting this right? [[Agreed.]] That's what we're gonna decide in the 91 vote. I'll check you all out first. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We shall vote on the proposal to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. The number of entries has basically stabilized. I've begun the vote with order number 91. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 91, from 125 Members present for 3, against 95. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? It's not like that. [[17.30 hours]] So we can vote in the '92 vote that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of the commandment to the Guarantee Committee - the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 92, from 127 in favour of 117, against no one. The motion has been approved. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to other committees? Yes, my colleague Klán. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u30	Thank you for the floor. Given that this bill also affects cyber security, I propose a Security Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u31	Yes. A colleague of the Černoch has another proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u32	I would like to propose this law to the constitutionally-legal committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u33	So he was a colleague of the Černoch. Does anyone else have another suggestion? Yes. The Chairman of the Security Committee shall be heard. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u34	I would like to propose that this item be included in the discussion of all the committees where Mr Klán is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u35	Mr. Chairman, you're making this difficult for me. I don't know if a proposal like this is possible because it has to be certain. [[A Member of the Clan gestures.]] All right, colleague Klán.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u36	The chairman of the Security Committee made it easier for me. I am only a member of one committee, and that is public administration and regional development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u37	Okay, okay. But the regular proposal fell. We will therefore vote on them. The Security Committee will vote in the vote number 93, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of the Security Committee's commandments. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 93, from 138 in favour of 55, against 41. The motion has not been approved. Now the constitutional committee according to the proposal of Mr Černoch. I have begun voting number 94 and I ask who is for the commandment to the constitutionally-legal committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 94, from 139 in favour of 47, against 45. Even this proposal was rejected, even though the chairman of the committee did not fight so hard. I therefore note that only the Guarantee Committee - the Public Administration and Regional Development Committee - has been ordered, and the time limit for discussion has remained under the Rules of Procedure Act for 60 days. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. I'm done with point 30. [[Mr Pilný stands at the microphone and repeats several times: To the vote!]] Oh, please, Mr. Pilný reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u38	Thank you for the floor. I'm not questioning the vote. Only when I put the card in, but I flashed, so I had to trade it, so I couldn't even support my own proposal. So it's just for the sake of the log. Otherwise, I do not question any vote. I actually voted in favour of my own proposal just for the sake of the Steno Record, although I was blinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u39	We believe you, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u40	This is an example of how a plastic chip card works.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-010-030.u41	Okay. We've refreshed the memory of what electronics can do. But the electronic record of the result of the vote was not challenged. It was just the opinion of a member of the Steno Record. Opening point
