ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-006-065.u1	65. Government bill amending Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on insurance against public health insurance, as amended /house print 715/ - first reading I ask the prepared Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-006-065.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me make a proposal for an amendment to the Act on Public Health Insurance Insurance. The aim of this proposal is to adapt the existing system of redistributing insurance premiums to public health insurance. The proposal is based on the Government's programming declaration, in which the Government declared its intention to introduce a fair model of redistribution of insurance premiums, which takes into account the actual expenditure of health insurance companies for the treatment of costly diagnoses. According to the proposal, insurance premiums would be allocated to health insurance companies not only according to the composition of the age and sex of the insured persons of the insurance undertaking, but also according to the number of health insurance undertakings suffering from chronic diseases associated with higher consumption of medicinal products and thus with higher costs of the health insurance undertaking for their treatment. The current model for the redistribution of insurance premiums will thus be enriched with the inclusion of insured persons in pharmaceutical cost groups, pharmacy-based cost groups, in short FCG. This proposal will not change the total amount of funds in the public health insurance scheme. However, the redistribution of these funds will reflect better the factors determining the consumption of paid health services. The impact of the proposal on health insurance companies has been carefully evaluated on the basis of data from previous years. The introduction of a new redistribution model alone does not expect a higher impact on the income of health insurance companies than a maximum of hundreds of millions per year. Changes in the income of health insurance companies will be carried out sensibly and the functioning of health insurance companies will not be threatened in any way. Mr President, honourable Members, I believe that you will support this proposal in the next legislative process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-006-065.u3	I thank the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček and ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Jaroslav Krákora to present a news report. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-006-065.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, draft law amending Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on insurance against public health insurance, as amended. The law is, of course, clear and relatively short, so the Minister has said in several sentences in an exhaustive manner what is going on. Firstly, I would say that the aim of the bill is to regulate the existing system of redistributing insurance premiums into public health insurance. We have to imagine that, at present, insurance is redistributed only by age and gender. There are no other criteria. This does not take sufficient account of the actual cost of insured persons, particularly in chronic and serious diseases, which require higher consumption of medicinal products. The impact on the state budget is estimated at about CZK 900 000 per year, because it would mean introducing two new workers at the Ministry of Health. The impact on health insurance budgets depending on the structure and disease of the insurance strain of insurance companies will be changes on the income side of individual insurance companies in the order of hundreds of millions of crowns per year. This means that some insurance companies will have tens to hundreds of millions more and others will have fewer. The total amount will be the same, but there will be another redistribution. Finally, I would like to say that the proposal will be positive for chronically ill insured people. By taking into account chronic redistribution diseases, chronically ill insured persons will on average be financially neutral, not loss-making. Health insurance companies will no longer be paid so much to favour healthy insured people over chronically ill patients. So it's a correction that leads to greater justice in redistributing funds to health insurance companies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-006-065.u5	I thank the rapporteur, Jaroslav Krákor. I am opening a general debate. The chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura joined it first. I'm picking up more applications. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-006-065.u6	Thank you for the floor. I would like to argue with the rapporteur's statement. That law is quite short, I agree. That it's quite simple, I completely disagree. If the rapporteur insists, I'll start testing the iterations that are there. I have nothing against the law. The reason message seems logical to me. I just have a few questions. If I counted the three-members well, the maximum annual impact is about half a billion on VZP and half a billion on occupational health insurance companies. The number of the first listening really high. At the moment when I came out of the eight-month implementation in the explanatory report, I divided it by two and multiplied by three, so it was 250 billion a year -- and we're dealing with 500 million of that, which is roughly two million. Two tenths even. Two-tenths of a percent, rapporteur, are two-tenths of a percent. So I'd like us to at least be clear, since the law is so simple, what are percentages and pardons... So I wasn't wrong, it's two per cent, or two per cent, if you will. [[12.30 hours]] The question I'm asking is, are those completely incomprehensible calculations and patterns supposed to be in the law? That's my basic question. Because it sounds very good, and I understand that we want to distribute more fairly public money, which all those who have an obligation to pay public health insurance pay. But the whole bill is going to be 0.2 percent. He looks like he's setting up a much higher level of justice. I say, I don't question the principle at all, but when I read it - and I rarely speak to health laws, I leave it to others who are better oriented in the area, but because I like engineering and mathematics, I am impressed that there are incredible patterns in that law that I don't think we can understand. I say for myself, I don't understand them. So I protest that this is a simple law. I'd understand if the Ministry of Health's authority were to issue these formulas, maybe. edit, because it turns out in practice whether the calculations are good. They're complicated mathematical models. Apparently, they are based on a practice that has been practiced, and models have been sought to describe the increased costs, especially for those who are unfortunately suffering from chronic illness. Then understand my speech more to wonder if we can still take over the government than to have it right in the law. Because that law is, of course, understandable only for those who control mathematical formulas. And those aren't really three-pieces. Just for the record, if I only read the first sentence of section M of Annex No. 2 of that law, Calculation of cost indices. The load indices shall be determined in accordance with the procedure described in points 1 to 6. It includes an iteration calculation, including a repetition of points 2 to 5, until the convergence condition in point 5 is met. The index in the upper right corner of the individual variables, closed in brackets, denotes the iteration number to which this quantity refers. And the easiest point of number 1 is defined as k=0 and Y(1)=y... And then there are much more complex mathematical formulas and expressions. So I'll ask the Minister to consider it. Because even under slight adjustment, if it's modeled mathematically differently, we'd have to amend the law. And then the change may not be 500 million, but the change itself, which will also be fair, could be only tens of millions of 250 billion in order. So consider it, colleagues and colleagues who are on the Health Committee as an incentive for your discussion. I'm sure we'll vote in favour of the commandments of committees and the release for further reading, but I'd like it not to go through with it - we don't understand it, so we're going to approve it quickly. I think it's a better way to get it out of the law and get the government to adjust it, if necessary. Because if we agree - and I think so - that the laws are supposed to be simple and understandable, then Annex No. 2 is completely incomprehensible not only to us, but to the vast majority of the public. But I think, for example. hospital management. They then get on the basis that they fill the tables, based on these according to me complex formulas, number, respectively. health insurance companies, how much will increase their share in selected health insurance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-006-065.u7	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. Before the words of another Member, Mr Leoš Heger, take the floor, I will just read the apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. At 12 o'clock, Mr. Milan Šarapatka apologizes for the meeting. Now, my colleague Leoš Heger, duly enrolled in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-006-065.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to support the law with my speech, because the principle of redistribution is simply necessary in the system of many health insurance companies. And given President Stanjura's speech, I would like to add that the problems he mentioned here are more likely on the side of the Ministry of Health than on the side of legislation and on the side of building the rule of law. He just has a number of advantages to the rule of law that we longed for justice to exist here. But as it turns out, a number of disadvantages, because they lead to gradual bureaucratization, for reasons that according to various conventions, everything must simply be important in the law. And, as President Stanjura mentioned, if it is not in the law and the government or the Ministry of Health will be able to influence it in some kind of legal regulation, then it can very strongly manipulate the income of individual insurance companies. Of course, I am not able to understand the patterns either, but I have listened to the debates since 2010, when the distribution of the cost system for patients started to talk and began to take over from Holland. These preparations have been very long and have basically continued for five or six years until now. The analysts modeled it differently, they dealt with it. Small changes can really affect the system. So in the end, the legislators who are supposed to approve this are kind of independent of their comments and the results of the modeling. It's a problem. There are four variants in the explanatory memorandum, from which the Ministry chose one in the RIA analysis, and to be sure, it only provided a table for the one redistribution it chose and did not show how the other three turned out. And I'd quite like to see it the way it was. But I know that the preparations were very serious, and of course the individual insurance companies are very careful, because that's their key bread, getting money. The last thing I'm going to mention on this issue is that the redistribution has evolved. It was completely different at the beginning of health insurance and led to extreme differences between health insurance companies in the sense that those insurance companies that had rich and healthy patients were very rich and those insurance companies that had poor and poor patients were also poor. So the indexing was gradually being refined. Even as Deputy Nosek, we specified indices for highly demanding patients, and it still wasn't enough. And this system, based on Dutch experience, should work it out. That is why the fine-tuning after the long-term refinement is now only done by the permile mentioned by Mr Stanjura. So much for looking at the system that's good at simply favouring insurance companies with the worst, the sickest, the most expensive patients, and then they're the object of fighting those insurance companies for them, so they're not actually fighting for the rich, but for those who need the most care insurance companies. And let me just mention one more thing, and I'm gonna do it with a little nudge in the ministry. The explanatory memorandum describes very carefully how very carefully personal data are handled and how well they are protected. Because the data live, sharp, with the birth numbers going from the insurance company first to the UHIS, it anonymously makes them anonymous, and then no one at the Ministry can do anything with them that could take advantage of them. So I thought this reasoning was a little funny, because, of course, the UHIS is a subordinate organization of the Ministry, and it can do whatever it wants with them. That's why we protested the introduction of the big brother, the giant registry. But it's passé, the registry has passed, so it's just an ex-post check on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-006-065.u9	Thank you, Mr Leoš Heger. Before we go any further, the apology of the Home Secretary Milan Chovanec has been made since 12.30 p.m. from this afternoon's work-related meeting. Furthermore, in the debate, factual remarks. First, Mr Stanjura, then Mr Plzák. Please, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-006-065.u10	It is not easy for me to argue against two health ministers, current and former. But I was just talking about the formula, and I don't think they need to be, and there's no threat of abuse by the government or the Ministry of Health, that they're going to draw completely different patterns again because they would be ridiculed in that professional community and among those who model it. Those obligations, as it should be and which data are to be transmitted, are defined in the law itself, not in the annex. So I believe that there will still be a debate about this and that we may find a way, because otherwise, hand to heart, we vote completely blindly. In this part, if it stays there, we're voting blindly. And there's no need for that. And the only thing that I'm giving to think about, and I'm a layman, but it's just two miles out of the total volume that I feel like it almost doesn't matter. I'm sorry, I know it's half a billion. I was surprised how little it was. I expected that number to be higher, that those fellow citizens who are unfortunately suffering from chronic illness, no one wants them to just two pardons, that it doesn't feel like it's going to start a fight against those insurance companies so that these... Maybe so, I'm just saying I'm surprised that the number is quite small. As a layman, I would expect a higher number, but I'm not questioning him if we understand each other. I don't want to argue about it, if the number is right, I have no reason not to believe it. Just think of it as saying it's not that much. You'd expect... The law was a complex negotiation, if it's going to be six years and we're talking about two pardons, I don't think that's an entirely predictable outcome. But like I said, I'm not questioning it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-006-065.u11	Thank you. Now Mr Pavel Plzák's factual remark, then the proper application by the Minister of Health. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-006-065.u12	Thank you, Mr President. My esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I took note because I expected what I was about to say to sound from the mouth of my previous speakers. This law shows precisely that we could save ourselves from negotiating such laws if we really had a system that money collected in the public health insurance system will be managed by one body, whether we call it insurance or tax, we all know what I'm talking about. I wanted to ask the Minister if it was time for a wider political debate here in the House to direct the system in this direction. He really promised us that he would try to present something in terms of voluntary participation, where there would then be a field for commercial insurance companies. I would like to ask the Minister what his opinion on this matter is and whether he is considering it in the future, because he promised us a little bit at the club, and when the time will come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-006-065.u13	Thank you, Mr Plzák, for keeping time on the point of fact. Now, Minister Němeček, an apology from Mr Tomio Okamura to the end of the day. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-006-065.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to some of the comments that have been made here in the debate on whether or not the calculation really needs to be in that law. I confess, I don't know, I actually put on the recommendation of the legislators who were led by the logic that Professor Heger mentioned here, that, indeed, the calculations and formulas show the obligation of payment and the obligation must be in the law. However, I promise to ask again if this really has to be the case, and in the committee debate, we will address this matter. If the change isn't too small in terms of motivation. I admit that we are a little conservative in this, that we did not really want to extend the change in terms of qualitative change quantitatively quite significantly, so that it would happen not to cause any more fundamental shocks in the system. So here it really is, it's a little bit of a change, but I think it's right that we shouldn't take it completely by the method of trying - a mistake. However, based on experience, and I think my colleagues will be right that for health insurance companies and the sum of hundreds of millions of crowns, they will be interesting to motivate them. What I think is the most important thing about this law is that they finally start taking care of those chronically ill patients, so that they start coming up with active programs to care for chronics, such as diabetics, like other large groups, like health insurance companies in other countries. And I think it's the most important thing. If we successfully implement this and it doesn't cause any major shocks in the system, then I think after a while it will come up the space to, for example. the change was bigger in terms of volume, but I think it's the right thing to do. As far as the law is concerned, which, in some way, would define in the case of medicines and medical devices what is being paid, and what is not being paid, unfortunately, this change has come across quite significant comments from the disabled organisations as well, from other organisations, so we assume that we will now finish it in the autumn and present it. That's the answer I was asked to answer. So, unfortunately, it's more complicated than we thought, and the public's response to this is huge. So I think we're gonna come up with this law this fall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-006-065.u15	I thank the Minister of Health for the speech in the debate. I'm asking who else because I don't have any more written applications. I don't see anyone reporting from the scene, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words, Mr. Secretary? It's not like that. The rapporteur? It's not like that. There was no motion for a vote to be returned or rejected, so we will address the proposals on the commandments of the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Health as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? That's not the case, so we can decide. Since the situation in the House has changed, I'm going to sign you all out, I'm going to ask you for a new registration, please sign up with your I.D. cards. Once the number of entries has settled, I know that part is still in the foyer, so we will decide in the vote number 141 on the commandment of the Health Committee as a committee to the guarantee committee. I've started voting number 141 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 141. Of the 100 Members present for 98, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Health Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to other committees. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to other committees? The calculations will certainly take place on the Health Committee, not on budget, so no one is proposing anything. So we can end this point. Thank you, Minister of Health, thank you to the rapporteur and I note that this proposal has been directed to the Health Committee as a committee of guarantee and has not been directed to any other committees. The time limit for hearing shall remain in accordance with the law of 60 days. The next item in our first reading is the interrupted item
