ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-009-166.u1	166. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratify the amendment of the Protocol on persistent organic pollutants, the Protocol on the restriction of acidification, eutrophication and ground-floor ozone and the Protocol on heavy metals to the Convention on Long-Term Air Pollution Crossing the Borders of States/Household Printing 734/ - second reading Even here, I ask the Minister of the Environment to take the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-009-166.u2	Thank you, Mr President, for saying the word and thank you for saying the speaker for me, so I don't have to say it again. And because I was a big picture at first reading, I'm just going to actually sum up what changes are going on. For all three of the above mentioned protocols, the procedure for adopting amendments to the Annex setting limits for the discharge of harmful substances is particularly simplified and a time-limited mitigation of the requirements for the application of the new emission limits is also introduced. The purpose is therefore to create conditions which extend the scope of the Contracting Parties to which air pollution control requirements apply. In the case of the Protocol on persistent organic pollutants and in the case of so-called The Gothenburg Protocol also extends the scope of dangerous substances which will be subject to rules after the entry into force of the amendments. In the case of the Gothenburg Protocol, its scope for health protection against suspended particulate emissions is then extended and new national emission ceilings applicable since 2020. Changes to the protocols concerned are based on EU legislation and will be reflected in EU or Czech regulations in the foreseeable future. The Czech Republic is currently already fulfilling the national emission ceilings applicable to 2020. So far, with the exception of sulphur dioxide, where this reduction is expected to be achieved within the prescribed period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-009-166.u3	Thank you, Minister. I ask now that the rapporteur of the Foreign Committee and the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, Mr Václav Zemek, take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you're very popular today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-009-166.u4	Thank you for the floor. I would like to introduce you to the results of the discussion on the Foreign Committee, where, after the justification of Deputy Minister of Environment . Vladimír Dolejský and the report by Mr Václav Zemk, i.e. me, and after the debate by the Foreign Committee I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees to ratify the amendments to the Protocol on persistent organic pollutants, the Protocol on the restriction of acidification, eutrophication and ground-floor ozone, and the Protocol on heavy metals to the Convention on Long-Term Air Pollution Crossing States. II. He instructs the chairman of the committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. III. It empowers the Committee's rapporteur, i.e. me, to report to the PS meeting on the results of this government proposal at the Foreign Committee meeting - which I have just done. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-009-166.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. Don't go anywhere. We would still need a report from the Committee on the Environment. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-009-166.u6	This press has also been discussed by the Committee on the Environment and, after my reasons and by the Deputy Minister, the resolution is essentially identical. That is, a recommendation from the Chamber of Deputies to approve this press. So to be precise...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-009-166.u7	Yes, it is necessary to pamper the speakers today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-009-166.u8	So to be precise, one more time. After discussing and justifying Deputy Minister . Vladimír Dolejský and the report by Mr Václav Zemk recommends the Committee The Chamber of Deputies will adopt the following resolution when the Parliament of the Czech Republic or the Chamber of Deputies agrees to ratify the amendments Protocol on persistent organic pollutants and Protocol on the restriction of acidification, eutrophication, ground ozone, Protocol on heavy metals to the Convention on Remote Air Pollution Crossing Borders. It's almost identical. Secondly, it instructs the President of the Committee to forward this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Thirdly, once again, the same resolution authorised the Committee's rapporteur, namely me, to present this discussion to the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-009-166.u9	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a debate to which Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, President of the ODS, is reporting. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-009-166.u10	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I don't know about you, but I only understood that we should approve. So far, all who have spoken on the microphone have had difficulty reading the name of this government proposal at all. I would ask the Minister, he will certainly know to tell us what to vote on, because I don't want to vote this blindly. Protocol on the restriction of acidification. What do you say? We're in favour of limiting acidification, aren't we? [[Fun and rehearsals in the hall.]] I don't know yet. We also want to reduce eutrophication. Are you in or out? The Minister is in favour, but he didn't tell us what it was. I don't know. And I believe I'm not the only one. I'd turn around. I'd say the only one is the minister who knows. And I think we have written that the language of the Chamber of Deputies is Czech. So if someone had translated it into the Czech language, he described to us what kind of activity it is, why we want to limit it, what is wrong with it, if we did not restrict it, if it is better to increase it than to limit it. Because I don't know what this is about, so I'm really not ready to vote. I know it was like you were laughing and it's fun. But someday someone might ask why you voted for it. So I want to ask you what impact this will have on our Czech industry if we approach such a convention. Then I want to ask if we have to approach it. What happens if we don't say yes to the ratification? Are we going to limit the states that really want to limit acidification, eutrophication and ground-floor ozone, or not? And stuff like that. I'm gonna wait for the Minister's speech, and I hope he doesn't take the final word so we can possibly ask questions, because if I don't know something, I'm not ashamed to ask. So I'm actually asking what these terms mean, why we have to limit them, who invented it, who discussed it in the Czech Republic, except the Chamber of Deputies. Maybe the honorable upper chamber already approved it, that's possible. And I look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-009-166.u11	Thank you, honourable Member. The rapporteur is reporting if that's still true. [[Yes.]] The rapporteur will tell us what we will do if we acidify and eutrophicate. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-009-166.u12	Just briefly my point. Of course, we're already at second reading. There was a debate here at first reading. It's been discussed on the committees. So it's not true that nobody's talking about it. There were also representatives of the ODS both on the Foreign Committee and on the Committee on the Environment. I think that at first reading there was quite a detailed reasoning from the petitioner. So I don't see why we should justify this here again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-009-166.u13	Thank you to the rapporteur. Chairman Stanjura reporting. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-009-166.u14	I didn't ask for the Civil Democratic Party. I don't consider this a political fight. But I'm surprised. For the second time, a member of our club asked the minister about something and Mr. Zemek comes running in. So I missed something. Is he the new minister? Or your spokesperson? I don't know. I really do, when I have something to ask the rapporteur, I will ask you, Mr rapporteur, believe me, I will prepare something in a moment. And the argument... Try to quote us from the debate, undoubtedly highly qualified in plenary at first reading. I'll find it. Before the Minister answers, I'm quoting some of this tape to you. All this talk, we're already on the committee... I'm not a member of any of those two committees, and I think I have every right to ask if I don't understand anything. So, these ridiculous remarks that we've already talked about on our committee, so since you're keeping us here, I'd beg you. If only you'd answer that question, since you've already been a secretary here. And not that I'm about the goat and you're about the cart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-009-166.u15	The rapporteur wants to answer. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-009-166.u16	Really, really briefly. I'm sure there was nothing ridiculous about my point of fact. I'd beg for that. Like, why are we attacking each other here? It's certainly not a political thing. I was just pointing out that the debate has already been held here, which is true. And I don't think anyone here is questioning, for example, when we talk about other areas of expertise - for example, medicine. Like everyone else, there's an area of their own. The way it works in each member's club is that there is a spokesperson or an expert group dealing with it. Of course, I don't deny anyone the right to ask. But to make trouble useless about some thing that's been discussed here several times, I think it's pointless, don't be mad at me. And to those terms, when it comes to eutrophication, the Czech translation is survival or a large content of nutrients in the environment, acidification is acidification. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-009-166.u17	Mr. Minister, after him, Mr. Chairman. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-009-166.u18	I don't know what's going on with anyone today, if there's any eruptions in the sun, or what's bit someone here. But I feel like we're all here in some kind of more exciting atmosphere today, so I guess we have something to look forward to next year. Of course, President Stanjura has the right to this question. Only the debate took place on the committees. Normally, this subject is spoken by Mr Zahradník for the Civil Democratic Party. But naturally, there is the right of every Member to ask what he wishes. Part of it's gone down. Of course, acidification mainly concerns air pollution by oxygenating substances, such as sulphur dioxide and others, primarily sulphur oxides - i.e., sorry, acidifying substances. And eutrophication is mainly about the effects of phosphorus or nitrogen oxide and its impact on the growth of the green matter, i.e. water pollution, which today is a matter which, of course, affects the whole of Europe, not just the Czech Republic. Therefore, these protocols and conventions resulting from them have been approved, i.e., they specifically concern the Convention, individual substances, it is a protocol for reducing sulphur emissions or flows across national borders by at least 30 per cent. It's a protocol to limit emissions of nitrogen oxide or its flows across borders. It is a protocol on reducing emissions of volatile organic substances, on further reduction of sulphur emissions, heavy metal protocol and others. These protocols have actually existed for many years, more or less since the 1990s. The Czech Republic gradually approached them. In principle, there has been a very low number of ratifications on the committee since 2009. Here I would like to say that the protocols have been ratified in the case of the Gothenburg Protocol by twenty Member States, the number of Contracting Parties is 25 in total, the protocol on heavy metal by 21 Member States and between them the Czech Republic. Of course, as Ministry of the Environment, we also dealt intensively with the impact on the Czech Republic. We have analysed, for example, the data reported by operators of the sources of pollution concerned, taking into account the possibilities of meeting the emission limits set. We have come to the conclusion that there has been no identification of the source that would not be able to meet these requirements. So at this point I can say with full seriousness that there is no danger that the Czech Republic would not fulfil any of these parameters. If that's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-009-166.u19	Thank you, Minister. Now, with a point of fact, first President Stanjura, after whom the Member... with priority rights. Thus, with a factual point first of all, Mr Klán. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-009-166.u20	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon. Allow me to comment on this bill. It seems to me that we're kind of hanging around here at the same time in the Paris Agreement. That's what I understand. That's what he's implying. The acidification of the ocean is a fairly well-known term, it's acidification. The question is, who's to blame for all this? Of course, the exhalations we release as civilizations, or the highest polluters. I asked in the debate, and I will come forward when the Paris Agreement discusses how the largest polluters, China and the United States, will deal with it. The minister said that America's newly elected President Donald Trump will follow this path and join the Paris Agreement with the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions that are resolutely warming our planet, which is, of course, proven. So I support these various conventions because it is really necessary to reduce these exhalations. But let's ask ourselves one more question. Who produces exhalation? It's industry. And I think that carbon is not entirely responsible for it itself, but it has been deregulated capitalism since the 1980s, which has given great development and expansion, let's just say, a carbon lobby that is looting the world, plundering the planet and irrecoverable resources in its essence. So the source of our planet's pollution is deregulated capitalism. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-009-166.u21	That was interesting information. Now with priority rights, President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-009-166.u22	First, a short reaction to what we just heard. Today's the big communist day. First they fought landmanshaft, then they fought NATO, and now they're fighting industry. [[Cheer up in the left side of the hall.]] Why not? Firstly, I would like to say that the members of the YES movement should support my speech, because this will cover the absence of your President, because if we stop, we must speed up this point, so we must break up, because he is not present. [[A vote from Members YES: He is excused.]] I'm not saying he's not excused, I'm just saying he's at the restaurant, guarding the receipts, so he couldn't even discuss and submit a contract with Belize or anything. [[Cheer up in the right side of the hall.]] But I've done my job and I've found the Steno Protocol from an interesting discussion of this press in the first reading. There were three speakers: the Minister, I will keep his quotes to second place, then the rapporteur, I will quote it first, and then Mr Kučera, who proposed ordering it to the Committee on the Environment. That was it. [[Restlessness and noise in the hall.]] Let us try to remember what the rapporteur has told us. I quote exactly. Don't worry, he wasn't overreacting with the news report. Quote: "Nice morning, the minister said it quite comprehensively." It's about 13 lines to see the Minister's extensive speech, it's just a little longer than the name of the convention. "I will only allow myself to sum it up a bit," says the rapporteur. "The draft relates to the Framework Convention on Long-Term Air Pollution, which includes three protocols, as has already been said." So a sentence without informational value, he just told us that the title corresponds to what we're dealing with. "Protocol on persistent organic pollutants, the so-called Gothenburg Protocol on Acidification Reduction, Eutrophication and Soil Ozone, and the Protocol on Heavy Metals." So in his second sentence, the news report read us the title of this convention for the second time and did not add a single information, comment or evaluation. And here's the crucial information: "These changes are related to these protocols." So let us sum up the first three sentences of the rapporteur's speech. He told us what the press was called, then he quoted difficult foreign words to us, and then he wisely summed it up and said that this is what these changes concern. "The first protocol extends to new substances. For the Gothenburg Protocol, and this is very important and we should not underestimate this and we should consider this when deciding whether we will support it, it is some technique and for heavy metals there is a specification of new stationary sources." And that's it. And then a cheeky opposition MP comes along and lets ask what it's about. Dear colleagues, it's about the convention, it's about the protocols, it's about the changes both in the convention and in the protocols, and it's about some technique. [[Cheer and applause in the right side of the hall.]] Unlike the rapporteur, I do not really intercede, as does the Minister, to approve it. I promised to quote the Minister, I have five minutes before we have to quit because of the absence of Minister Babiš. Don't worry, his extensive performance will fit superbly in five minutes. First of all, the Minister thanked Mr President, I no longer know exactly who he was, thanked him for reading the hard words for me too, and he began: "The executive body of the Convention on Long-Term Pollution across the border of the state adopted amendments to three protocols in 2009 and 2012 and...' And now the Minister wanted to show that he is just as good as Mr President and read us again the name of the protocols: '... the Protocol on persistent organic pollutants, the Protocol on Acidification, Eutrophication and Ground Floor Ozone, the Götebor Protocol', these are the techniques, if you have forgotten or lost, 'and the Protocol on Heavy Metals. The following amendments shall be made to the said Protocols.' And now there's one paragraph. [[Again, cheer in the right side of the hall.]] And now the very important passage is: "What I would like to emphasise," says the Minister, "the changes to the protocols in question are based on the legislation of the European Union and are or will be reflected in the regulations of the European Union or the Czech Republic in the foreseeable future." That's a relief, Minister. I really must say. "Only minor changes in Decree No. 415/2012 Coll., which addresses permitted levels of pollution and implements the relevant provisions of the Air Protection Act. By adopting the amendments mentioned in the protocol, the Czech Republic will support the efforts of the international community to impose on a global scale stricter requirements for limiting and reducing the emissions of harmful substances and pressure on those countries that have a high share in the long-range transmission of pollutants. Thank you for your attention and I believe you will support it." End of quote and end of speech, Minister. I don't know about you, but we can't be serious. I'm from the Moravian-Silesian Region, and no government has succeeded. If only my neighbor and I could arrange for pollution not to come from the Republic of Poland to the Moravian-Silesian Region. We're not very good at that. And it's not easy. And I say no government has succeeded, including our government. So I'm not saying it's easy. But isn't this much more important for the citizens of the Czech Republic than to tell technology in the Gothenburg Protocol? To supply us with words, sentences, paragraphs of unintelligible text and expect us to vote blindly just to make a joke that we did it as the Czech Republic and that we are not a troublemaker. Let us try to focus on, for example, not coming from Poland, so that the large investments of our steel industry are not undermined, because if those investments are only on one side of the border, the impact on the environment is not as good as it could be if we had the whole thing in our hands. So I would recommend that we focus on negotiations with the Republic of Poland, try to deal with this, and then we can go back to amending the Protocol on the Convention. But that is a typical example of how nonsense politics works. I don't really want to know the answer to the questions about how many officials are doing this at international level, how they exchange it, how many conferences they had, how many sandwiches they ate, whether or not there were EET receipts for those breads, I really don't want to know. But let's solve some major problems, and we can leave this lying down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-009-166.u23	Thank you, Prime Minister. With a factual remark, Mr Leoš Heger, if he insists on it. It doesn't. Since it is 12:59 a.m. and the rapporteur and the Minister are still on the list, and we will probably not be able to do so, so if you do not object to my progress, I am interrupting this point and interrupting the House meeting until 14:30 p.m. when we will continue with oral interpelations to the Prime Minister under the Rules of Procedure. Enjoy your lunch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-009-166.u24	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. We will continue to discuss this House meeting. Our fixed point for this afternoon's program is oral interpelations to the Prime Minister and then to individual members of the government.
