ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-023-017.u1	17. Government bill amending Act No. 56/2001 Coll., on the conditions of operation of vehicles on roads and on the amendment of Act No. 168/1999 Coll., on liability insurance for damage caused by the operation of the vehicle and amending certain related laws (Act on liability insurance from the operation of the vehicle), as amended by Act No. 307/1999 Coll., as amended, and other related laws /house print 683/ - second reading On behalf of the Government, Dan Ťok, Minister of Transport, will also state the proposal submitted in this case. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-023-017.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. In particular, the proposed bill brings a change of local jurisdiction to the municipal authorities of municipalities with extended scope in the implementation of registration in the register of road vehicles, the approval of the technical competence of the individually produced and individually imported vehicle and the construction of vehicles, following the model of the trade law. The local competence of the vehicle operator's seat or residence is proposed to be abolished and the choice of the competent authority is left to the applicant. The application will be made at any municipal authority of the municipality with extended scope. For registration operations, the proposed step is enabled in particular by the gradual electronisation of documents attached to applications for registration linked to the previous amendment of this Act. In conjunction with this step, a reduction in total revenue from administrative charges is not expected. However, a certain redistribution of operations and associated charges between the municipal authorities concerned can be expected, with a higher concentration of operations in larger cities being expected. The proposed step brings positive effects on natural and legal persons associated mainly with financial, time and administrative savings. Another aim of the bill is to eliminate some of the partial shortcomings and gaps of Act No. 56/2001 Coll. Following its amendment made by Law No. 239/2013 Sb. In addition to the above proposed amendments, the necessary implementation of EU law, namely adaptation to EU regulations on requirements for tractors and forestry and agricultural machinery, two-wheel vehicles, three-wheel vehicles and quadricycles, has also been introduced in the preparation of the proposal. The Economic Committee adopted eight amendments, with part of them the Ministry of Transport agreed and not with part of them. Here, let me mention, in particular, the proposal to supplement the adaptation concerning the involvement of emission measurement stations in the STK information system and changes in the area of the definition of territorial coverage for the purpose of issuing authorisations for the operation of technical checks. Here I would just like to point out that this proposal goes ahead of a substantive debate with operators of both STK and technical control stations. I think it would be a good idea for this thing to just wake up during the next hearing. As I said, the Ministry of Transport supports some amendments. Some people would like them to work out in the next trial. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-023-017.u3	Thank you, too. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House Press 683/1 and 2. I ask that the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Martin Kolovratník, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-023-017.u4	Colleagues, colleagues, good evening. I shall advise that I ask the same thing as the previous rapporteur, Mr František Laudát, on the previous law. That means we're interrupting the hearing. And I'll try to explain, virtually. I will justify this precisely to my information on the Committee on Economic Affairs. As the Deputy Minister of Transport informed you a moment ago, the main merit of this amendment is the dislodgement of local jurisdiction. Translated into lay language when you buy or convert a vehicle, it will no longer be necessary, according to this proposal, for the seller and the buyer to ride in one place with the seller, but the operation will actually be possible to do in any village with extended scope. It is a service that goes to the citizens and simplifies these matters for them. And now I get to the Economic Committee. Indeed, some amendments in the Committee's comprehensive amendment No. 683/2 were dealt with positively, the Ministry is in line, and some of them unfortunately are not. We still need to continue the debate and find a position so that we do not overpress ourselves unnecessarily. Committee, respectively. Coalition MPs, versus their ministry. Specifically, the biggest discussion concerned the discussion referred to above, first, about emission stations, emission inspections or inspections, and then how to determine the number of controls or deregulation of technical inspection stations. I myself confess, personally I was caught up in today's term because I offered to the Ministry - there are a number of sensible things in the comments that can just be corrected or combed and solved by individual amendments to us Members or, possibly, me or your colleagues, which we would submit to the second reading. But we still have to discuss the matter together and prepare it. For this reason, as I say, we acted on the Economic Committee on September 2nd last week on Wednesday, and because we do not have everything ready, I also make a procedural proposal under this law, and please interrupt the session of the Chamber of Deputies in October. I'm looking at the minister, if that's okay. And it's in line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-023-017.u5	Okay. Since this is a procedural proposal, I will put it to a vote without debate. I'll repeat your suggestion. Your procedural proposal is to interrupt this item into the October session of the Chamber of Deputies. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this procedural proposal, as it has been put forward, to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 98. 119 Members and Members are registered for proposal 101. I note that this proposal has also been agreed with. I'm interrupting this point. We'll continue with the next point and that's
