ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening on the third day of the adjourned 37th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. I'd like you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. Mr Rykala votes with card number 3, I vote with card number 8, Mrs Bebarová-Rujbrová votes with card number 13, Mr Okleštěk votes with card number 17. I would like to tell you that the following Members have asked to excuse their absence at the hearing: Mr Adam - health reasons, Mr Adamec - without giving reason, Mrs Balaštíková - health reasons, Mr Běhounek - working grounds, Mr Birke - without giving reason, Mrs Černochová - working grounds, Mr Černý - working grounds, Mr Číp - personal reasons, Mr Fiedler - personal reasons, Mrs Fischerová - without giving reason, Mr Foldyna - personal reasons, Mr Nykl - working reasons, Mrs Golasowská - working Opálka, Mr Grebeníček - working Plzák, Mr Horáček - working grounds, Vice-President Němcová - working grounds, Mr Kalousek - Pražák grounds, Mr Kalousek - personal reasons, Mr Karamazov - Šenfeld reasons, Mr Kostřica - personal reasons, Mrs Matušovská - medical Wernerová, Mrs Maxová - medical reasons, within 10 hours - working grounds, Vice-President Jermanová - working grounds, Mrs Jerman - working Šarapatka, Mr Kalousek - medical Nytrová - personal reasons - personal reasons - personal Novotný - medical reasons - medical reasons, Mrs. Minister Chovanec - working reasons, Minister Jurečka - working reasons, Minister Mládek - working reasons, Minister Němeček - working reasons, Minister Ťok - working reasons, Minister Valachová - working reasons and Minister Zaorálek also working reasons. [[Noise in the hall.]] Mr Tejc votes with card number 20. So many apologies. Colleagues, colleagues, I beg you to remain calm in the House. Please take your seats and pay attention to the negotiations. We will now consider paragraphs 1 and 2, which are prints 513 and 514 of the approved agenda for which the merged debate has been interrupted.
