ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-004-009.u1	9. Government bill amending Act No. 38/2004 Sb., on insurance intermediaries and separate creditors of insurance events and on the amendment of trade law (the Act on insurance intermediaries and insurers of insurance events), as amended /German press 751/ - second reading I ask the Minister of Finance to take the floor and give us this press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-004-009.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of a proposal for an amendment to the Act on Insurance is almost exclusively the transposition of a directive called Solvency II. This Directive establishes a new pan-European system which should strengthen the financial stability of insurance undertakings, enhance the transparency of their activities and the accountability of supervisory authorities to the ability of insurance undertakings to meet their obligations under their activities. Of course, this system also contributes to greater protection of clients. The new scheme includes in particular the following measures: a regular assessment of the overall solvency needs of insurance undertakings, taking into account the specific risk problem of each specific institution. Security -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-004-009.u3	I'm sorry, Minister. I ask the left side of the hall to keep it down, or to transfer her conversation to the foyer. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-004-009.u4	Provision of sound management of insurance undertakings through an effective management and control system, an obligation for insurance undertakings to comply with the Solvency Capital Requirement determined on the basis of their actual risk profile. The solvency capital requirement shall be determined as the economic capital held by the insurance undertaking and shall be determined in such a way as to ensure that the insolvency of the insurance undertaking occurs in no more than one of two hundred cases, or alternatively to ensure a stable ability of the insurance undertaking with a probability of at least 99.5 per cent to meet the obligations arising from insurance contracts over the next 12 months. The group's own funds will have to be distributed in such a way that they are available for the protection of insured persons, or the financial situation of the insurance undertaking may also affect the concentration of risks and operations within the group of which the insurance undertaking is part. The transparency of the business of insurance undertakings will be increased by the obligation of insurance undertakings to disclose relevant information on their solvency and financial situation at least once a year. This information will have to be made available to the public free of charge, including at group level. Of course, the system contains detailed information obligations to the supervisory authority. I would remind you that the transposition was due to the connection of the amendment with another issue into a significant slippage with implementation terms. The Solvency II system was to be implemented on 1 January 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-004-009.u5	Thank you and please the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, to whom we have ordered this press as a committee of guarantee. He's Mr. Šincl. The Committee's resolution was delivered to you as press 751/1 and 2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-004-009.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to draw attention to everyone here in this hall - and I hope they listen to me - and the Minister above all, that we are now discussing the House Press 751 on insurance intermediaries, not insurance companies. That's a point to the following. The minister here probably told us a news report on insurance companies - the Insurance Act, sorry. And I see he's a little confused. Sorry, I just wanted to put it this easy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-004-009.u7	In that case, I'm going to ask you to make room at the speaker's office, and I'm going to ask the minister to give us the correct presentation, i.e. Print report 751. Then the rapporteur gets the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-004-009.u8	I'm sorry, I got it all wrong. So one more time. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed amendment to the Insurance Intermediaries Act is a compromise result of long debates that have been going on with the issue of regulating financial relations in insurance for more than a year. The main objective of the proposed law is to limit negative phenomena associated with early termination of life insurance contracts. The negative phenomenon is mainly the low value of the redemption, which is paid to clients on termination of the contract in the first years of the life insurance investment or capital. The low value of the buy-back follows from the way in which insurance companies currently apply the cost of life insurance to clients. This prepaid cost mechanism contributes to frequent overpayments and thus to the overall increase of the life insurance product for clients. Reconfidence is, as it has long been shown, a systemic problem arising from both insurance mediation and direct sales at branches of insurance companies. The subject of the new adjustment is therefore a rule on the compulsory distribution of the insurance undertaking's life insurance costs up to a period of five years. In the event of early termination of the contract, a higher amount will be paid to the clients on the purchase fee than is currently the case. This rule logically applies only to the life insurance for which, according to the insurance contract, the right to pay the ransom is created. In addition to consumer protection, the proposal also includes an adjustment due to early termination of insurance for financial relations between insurance undertakings and insurance intermediaries. The proposed regulation provides that if insurance is cancelled for any reason in the first five years, only the part of the commission corresponding to the actual duration of the insurance is always due to the insurance intermediary. This adjustment is intended to be applied to the mediation of all insurances covered by the life insurance sector under the Insurance Act, i.e. both reserve and risky. However, the Act also provides for derogations under which this part of the regulation does not apply, in the case of insurance with one-off insurance and commission insurance, evenly distributed throughout the agreed duration of the insurance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-004-009.u9	Thank you, Minister. Once again, I ask the left side of the hall to calm down. And if I have to ask for a third time, I'll start naming them. I ask the rapporteur to inform us about the negotiations on the Committee on Budgets. As I said, his resolutions are distributed as press 751/1 and 2. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-004-009.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So let me make this brief. The Committee on Budgets recommends to the Chamber of Deputies, etc. that the Government's bill amending Act No. 38, on insurance intermediaries, etc. should be approved without comment - I am adding no comments yet - and empowers the rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Do you want me to continue the intelligence report? [[Yes.]] Okay, thank you. Let me add in the rapporteur's role that, despite the same name, this amendment is not the same as the former Parliamentary Press 415. The former press 415 had 232 pages, and the current press 751, including the explanatory report, shrunk to just 12 pages and only regulated the remuneration of intermediaries. As I said at first reading, it is quite a shame, in my opinion. It is a pity that the Ministry of Finance has not used and failed to complete the material submitted initially as the Parliamentary Press 415, which is an amendment to the law that I said in the budget committee resolution on insurance intermediaries as a whole, which contained a number of positive measures. In my opinion, this is a pity, because the Insurance Intermediaries Act deserves to be adapted to a number of areas. Let me briefly mention, for example, as regards these areas of registers of intermediaries kept at the Czech National Bank, or strengthening the powers of the Czech National Bank to withdraw licences to intermediaries, or setting up better conditions for increasing the professional competence of intermediaries. All of this could, in my view, exclude from the market those intermediaries who, through their actions, harm the financial market with poor mediation, without reason to renegotiate client contracts with a view to obtaining remuneration for financial fraud, etc. As I have already said, this amendment contains - I stress only - a proposal to regulate the remuneration of life insurance, both reserve and risky. I'm pointing it out, then. So much for the role of rapporteur. And since I do not want to be accused of taking advantage of the role of rapporteur, I am calling on the general debate when I want to ask the Minister of Finance here and clarify something as an ordinary Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-004-009.u11	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman? [[Stanjuro]] In that case, I would ask you to free up the floor for the President of the ODS Club, and I will, of course, register your application for the general debate. [[to Mr Shinclo]] Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-004-009.u12	I'll be between Šincl and Šincl. I think that Mr Šincl should not speak at all times so that we can share the news section of his speech and then the MP, so I volunteered. Not that I'm so impatient. I will certainly hear his speech in the general debate. I just want to remind you very briefly that we've discussed this before. In my opinion, in principle, the law then poorly prepared collapsed on the issue of the regulation of fees for intermediaries. He was on the budget committee then. Mr Šincl took advantage of his constitutional right, he tabled an amendment which, in addition to the Members of the Civil Democratic Party, was supported by all the Members of all the other MPs, all six other MPs. Then, to my surprise, Mr Šincl was identified as an enemy of the state and the result was not to accept the law. In these debates, both in plenary and in the Committee on Budgets, I have tried to be very reserved for the proposed regulation. Anyone who's been there can confirm that. However, I admitted that there is a real problem with the level of redemption for one type of insurance contract. And since I am a constructive opposition Member, I come up with an amendment which, in my opinion, unlike all previous or simultaneous proposals, actually thinks of consumers and does not take sides with insurance companies or insurance intermediaries. [[15.50 hours]] The minister said in his introductory words that the bill brings rules for calculating the ransom. But that's not true. This brings my amendment, which I will introduce you to shortly. So far, the bill brings rules for the distribution of rewards. That's what the Minister was talking about - distribution at the age of five and so on. So, Minister, that's completely different. And I firmly hope that when we discuss this amendment in the Committee on Budgets and in plenary at third reading, the Minister will choose a different benchmark than he has so far. He has said so far: If that is the proposal made by Mr YES, that is a good thing. If it's the coalition MP's proposal that I agree with, that's a good thing too. If it is the amendment of a coalition MP I disagree with, it is an attack on the coalition, which I personally don't care about. And the highlight of everything is when there's an opposition proposal, and God forbid someone would support it. And I would ask the Minister and his team to assess the amendment without the optics whether it comes from coalition or opposition benches. To try and look. To put it simply, I'm offering a helping hand in this debate. What is this other approach than the current proposals for regulation? It's about setting the ransom rate. It also envisages the five-year period and says that for each month the purchase fee can only be reduced by 1/60 of the insurer's total purchase costs in relation to insurance. This is something other than the 1/60 reward the broker receives. And now I'm going to try to justify this proposal a little bit more. The original proposal, as I said before, submitted by the Ministry of Finance, House Press 751, regulates the relationship between two professional or commercial parties, meaning insurance companies and intermediaries, without direct effect and impact on the benefit of consumers. In our view, this is an intervention in the freedom of enterprise, which is not proportionate to the purpose or objectives pursued, and moreover the text proposed is not completely understandable when you look at Section 21 letter. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 1. I also propose a slight change in this paragraph, which I will then justify. This means that, even in this respect, the general requirement for maximum consumer protection cannot give rise to a requirement for price regulation in relation to two business or professional business entities. Therefore, the amendment limits regulation only to the acquisition costs of insurance undertakings which are applied to customer deposits in reserve-making insurance and thus have a primary and direct impact on the size of the redemption paid. If the theory that life insurance is a problem of over-collateralisation from the low value of the repurchase paid to customers is the key area of cost regulation, because it is the most significant item that reduces the purchase in the first years. The regulation of commissions in this case is redundant, or if you want me to use Czech words, useless, because if the costs are reduced, the goal of the adjustment is achieved, i.e. elimination of the situation where the customer is paid low or zero purchase. In this context, the proposal corresponds, for example, to the amendment in German legislation, which focuses precisely on the area of costs and not on the sub-items of these costs, such as the acquisition commission. The costs of insurance companies are the dominant part of the fees paid by the client in the reserve component of the insurance, as shown in the chart below. If you want, then you can look at the graph in the House document in which the amendment is submitted. The distribution costs associated with the intermediary's activities are thus marginal in the context of the overall cost. When we look at this graph, the total costs are - 80 per cent are the costs of insurance companies and only 13 per cent are the costs of intermediaries. For this very reason, the regulation should primarily monitor the regulation of the relationship between the insurance undertaking and the consumer, if it is intended to interfere in this area at all, rather than regulate and regulate the commercial relationship between the insurance undertaking and the intermediary by law. It can be argued that the regulation of purchase costs is only partially effective in this regard, since only the regulation of the total cost of reserve-making insurance would be effective. However, it is still a proposed solution, which I justify here and I present more balanced and more effective from the point of view of market relations than the proposer of the proposed regulation of acquisition commissions. That is why I think that this is better, and this amendment really protects consumer rights and does not look like a referee in the normal business struggle between the insurance company and the intermediary. At the same time, the amendment contains, as I have already said, an amendment to the proposed section 21f para. 1 when it is proposed to release his last sentence. This provision brings uncertainty as to the question in which cases the right to redemption arises, which could lead to the absurd conclusion that this may be the case for all types of insurance, unless explicitly stated in the contract. In fact, the last sentence represents an indirect amendment to the Civil Code, which is difficult to accept from the point of view of the creation of the basic principles. Once again, I ask the Minister of Finance - he does not listen to me all the time, but perhaps his co-workers will read the log - I ask that they judge this proposal by its content and not by the opposition Member's presentation. Thank you for the professionally responsible assessment of this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-004-009.u13	Thank you and please Mr Šincl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-004-009.u14	Mr President, thank you. I'd like to appreciate my previous speaker's performance. It is obvious that at least someone in this Chamber of Deputies is engaged in the Insurance Intermediaries Act, so it is not just me. It was evident that Stanjura's colleague had a lot of study to do, and he had an opinion about it. I really appreciate it. It looked a little bit like Mr. Stanjura was telling me. That he was like explaining it to me, looking at me all the time. I had this weird, weird feeling about it because I'm not the lawmaker. If anybody reads it, they'll know that the plaintiff of this shrunken 12-party law is the Ministry of Finance, represented by the Minister of Finance. This is just to clarify who the petitioner is and that the person presenting it is not - and this is a message for insurance intermediaries throughout the Czech Republic - that it is not really me, but it is therefore Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. So I would like to say that, as rapporteur, I have always tried to stick to the subject at issue, but there are a few issues that I think are good to explain, and that is why I volunteered as an ordinary Member for a general debate. I want to stress that it's nothing personal, and I hope what I say here doesn't touch anyone right now. As I already am - especially honourable Members, I mean honourable members of the ANO movement. As I have already said in the rapporteur's role, the proposal contains regulation of the remuneration for life insurance mediation - both reserve and risky - I stress. Why am I talking about this? I don't know if the Minister knows this, but this proposal he made here is House Press 751, which is 90 per cent of the content that I made last year, and from which the Minister concluded that I was being misbehaved by insurance companies, and for which he did not hesitate to use his very unconventional methods almost a year ago, when he pulled false information about my history in front of a number of witnesses in this building from a folder with my name on it. He didn't hesitate to find out about my family and her estate. And that I'm being driven by people like Radek Pokorný and some Mrs. Kleslová, who I've never really seen in my life until today. I didn't want to open old coalition wounds here, and I was just quietly hoping that the Minister would ever apologize and realize that he really shouldn't behave like that. I thought he'd forgotten about me. Unfortunately, I was wrong. [[16.00 hours]] Last week, 25. 5. on ČT 24 again, Minister, you publicly slandered me when you claimed that I had made some kind of maligned proposal. This mantra of yours was repeated on the same day by your Vice-President Jan Volný on the Event programme, comments at 10:10 p.m. in the evening. Minister, I have been thinking for a long time what makes you think that you are constantly repeating in the media that I am being naughty with insurance companies and that I am making some naughty proposals when you are putting 90 percent of the same proposal in this press today as I did last year. It contains the same idea of regulating both reserve and risk insurance and the same idea of reducing the right to remuneration if the loss of the insurance occurs in the first five years of its duration differently from that of the insurance event. I quote the explanatory memorandum, which in this text is completely identical to my amendment, which I tabled last year. I really don't understand. Now, when you were like that, I'm really sorry, everyone, when you were such a hero in front of TV screens, cameras last week, 25. 5. So you could be a hero right now, and here at the table, at the counter, he answered me the question of what kind of insurance companies I'm being naughty about when you, not me, put forward a proposal that's 90 percent the same as my original one, which you declared to be naughty. So either you're lobbying for the insurance companies now, or my original proposal, which obviously inspired you, wasn't naughty, and in that case, it would probably be nice to apologize for everything that happened. It's not that hard. Personally, I think it must be some kind of obsession that can't be disposed of, and it forces you to say it, as well as that everyone around the burglars or that it was the four five thieves in the Chamber of Deputies. I'm used to it, but things are getting worse. Previously, you claimed that I was being naughty with the lottery companies in relation to Mr Fichtner's proposal, only because I took the liberty of proposing interruptions on the Committee on Budgets on the basis of your own - I stress your own - the recommendation of the letter and of your Deputy Minister Závodský. I really don't understand. You make almost the same proposal for insurance, and I'm being naughty. I'll read your recommendations to the lottery committee, and I'm being naughty again. Unfortunately, lately, my circuit has been called. You are also extending lobbyists and evil double-crossers to other MPs. In the past, for example, it was Vice-President Bartošek, and you have now extended it to the chairman of the budget committee of Mr Votava, as I have learned again 25. 5. on ČT 24, which you accused in your television performance that he came up with a proposal which meant a lower income of 450 crowns per year for taxpayers. I'm sorry, Minister, but that just proves how wrong you are. He did not come forward with any such proposal or because of illness, because he was not present at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets because of the illness. So he didn't really submit this proposal or vote on it. I really need to defend him, and I think that even in this case, he deserves an apology for this performance of yours. Thank you for listening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-004-009.u15	More applications? I've got an actual one here. Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-004-009.u16	Just an explanation. It's very hard to talk to empty benches. And first of all, Mr Šincl, through Mr President, you are actually sitting alone. That's why you thought I was talking to you. If there were those who might be accusing you of lobbying, I would look at them, or if you took up the traditional position of the newsletter, but it's obviously too difficult to ask you to sit in one bench with the Minister of Finance. I think I understand that. So don't take it personally. I will also present to you in writing, as the Rules of Procedure impose, my amendment, and then I will sign up to it in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-004-009.u17	Further to the general debate? I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. Let me ask you about the final words. No. Neither does the rapporteur. So I am opening up a detailed debate and, please, Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-004-009.u18	I formally sign up for the amendment, which I justified in the general debate. The amendment is conducted in the system as House Document No 4456.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-004-009.u19	Further to the detailed debate? If no one is reporting, I am also ending the debate in detail. Final word, Minister. No need. The rapporteur? Not either. In that case, I shall end the second reading of this proposal. I'll read the apologies. The Minister of Culture Herman apologizes from 16.30 for departmental reasons, Mr Fiedler apologises from 15.30 to the end of the day, Mr Kasal apologises from 17.15 to 19.00 for working reasons. And I do not yet know whether the apology of Mr Radim Fiala has been read, so just in case again, he apologizes for today's negotiations for reasons of negotiation. So many apologies. We will now continue with the Insurance Act, which is
