ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-012-056.u1	56. Government bill amending Act No. 61/1988 Coll., on Mining Activities, Explosives and the State Mining Administration, as amended, and Act No. 83/2013 Sb., on the labelling and traceability of explosives for civil use /house print 653/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted for the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek will be introduced by the Minister of Interior Milan Chovanec. Before I give you my word, Minister, I will ask Mr Martin Novotný to take his place at the rapporteur's table. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-012-056.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, let me first apologize to my colleague Mr Mládek, who is currently in the Senate when discussing his point. Mr President, honourable Members, I translate the bill amending Act No. 61/1988 Coll., on mining activities, explosives and the State Mining Administration, as amended, and Act No. 83/2013 Coll., on the labelling and traceability of explosives for civil use. The main reasons for submitting the amendment are two. For the first time, this amendment implements the 2014 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council under the number 28/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the supply and supervision of explosives for civil use. It should be noted that the proposed amendment is not the only legal regulation implementing the directive in the Czech legal order, but complements the new Act on conformity assessment in all provisions that go beyond and belong factually to the Mining Act, explosives and the State Mining Administration, or to the Act on the labelling and traceability of explosives. I merely recall that the new Conformity Assessment Act was submitted to the House on 20 October and is being discussed as House press number 565. The implementation of the requirements of that directive represents more than half of the content of the amendment and concerns, in particular, the setting of requirements for the handling of explosives in view of the fact that these are products which pose an increased risk. The second essential reason for submitting the amendment is to clarify the legislation on the handling of explosives, which is intended to align the requirements of the Act on explosives with the requirements of the Act on Weapons. This part of the amendment was initiated by the government on the basis of events in Vrbětice. The amendment will unify the definitions of some terms between the two laws. In particular, it is the definition of the concept of ammunition, the definition of the concept of explosive processing in the manufacture or dismantling, the so-called demolition of ammunition, the refinement and unification of the decision-making process in the removal of doubt as to whether or not there is an explosive. The aim of this clarification is to avoid doubts about the competence of supervisory authorities in activities that are at the limit of competence between the Mining Authority and the Police of the Czech Republic. For example, it is the mentioned production or delaboration of ammunition, where explosives are being disposed of, where the supervision of the Czech Mining Authority is, and where the supervision of the Police of the Czech Republic is. The most important part of this amendment, however, is the introduction of binding opinions of district mining authorities in the procedure for placing and subsequent authorisation of buildings in which explosives are to be handled. The opinions in question are intended to ensure that these buildings are located and constructed in such a way as to prevent negative impacts on their surroundings in the event of an emergency, which is undoubtedly, and here is the idea of an explosion. In the current legal state, the mining authorities issue only opinions, not binding opinions. In practice, this means that the supervisory authority, the Mining Authority, is only expressing itself for such proceedings when the municipal authority evaluates the need for such observations. We think that this needs to be changed so that this statement is always part of the relevant administrative procedure. The proposed amendment also proposes partial changes whose need arises from the application practice of the law and explosives does not apply. An example can be given of the refinement of existing arrangements related to the control and maintenance of destroyed mining works. Here it is intended primarily to allow access to real estate on which mining works are to be subject to control or maintenance and may constitute a potential danger, or to remove the error of the law which gives competence to the Mining Authority to enforce the mining operator's obligation to liquidate after the operation of the mine or quarry, but only up to the amount of the mining reserve created. This prevents the enforcement of the obligation to liquidate the quarry or mine in cases where the mine ends mining at a time when the full amount of the reserve is not yet created and therefore the funds are not sufficient. The draft law was approved by a resolution of the Government of the Czech Republic on 26 October, under number 850. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-012-056.u3	Thank you, Home Secretary. And now I ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Martin Novotný to present his report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-012-056.u4	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. This is primarily a technical standard. In this case, it is not in the vast majority of considerations about the political aspects of the bill, and I will therefore be free to sum up its content in duplicate, as the Minister of the Interior has already said in his introductory report. I will therefore stress only those issues that are really essential, and this is a new description of the conditions for obtaining binding opinions on the placing of buildings intended for the handling of explosives. This is, of course, after the experience we had in the past years, I mentioned this October 2014 today a rather important topic. There are very tighter registration conditions and, at the same time, the rules for the transport of these dangerous materials are more strictly described. I will not mention the transpositional aspect of this standard any more widely on the day when we have quoted Mr Juncker's comments so many times. So I merely add technically that the Organisational Committee has proposed ordering the Economic Committee to discuss this standard, which is quite expected and rational.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-012-056.u5	I thank the rapporteur. And before I open the general debate, I will state Mrs Markéta Adamová's apologies from 18 a.m. to the end of the working day for work reasons. I am now opening the debate and the first Mr Václav Snopek is signed in. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-012-056.u6	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, a substantial part of the law has been said here. Those circuits that it's tied to. I think that it is necessary to emphasise the question of practice in particular, which has forced itself to amend certain regulations, and that this has already been sufficiently justified. I want to stop at about two or three aspects of the law. The proposed legislation responds, inter alia, to the intention of the Ministry for Regional Development to amend the construction law and special regulations governing the scope of construction offices, including Act No. 61/1988 Coll. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. Here I think we need to show what it looks like in practice. The storage of explosives currently looks like they are stored in various constructions and objects. One of these objects is containers that meet the requirements required by law. The current legislation applies a general connection of an explosive storage facility which has been authorised under a special law. And this container fully suits. However, the new amendment pursuant to Section 29 explicitly normalizes that the storage of explosives is to be carried out in construction sites. The question arises, therefore, whether or not containers approved by the Mining Authority fall under this concept. The interpretation is not clear at all, with explosives storers in danger of becoming illegal if the proposed text is approved, the concept of construction, from one day to the next, in containers. Any transitional provision is completely missing. Therefore, it would be appropriate to continue to use the term object. Now I'm going to stop at the second note, it's a matter of transporting explosives. I remember when this standard arose, and I would like to remind you that according to the existing legislation § 25f paragraph 1 letter. (c) the planned route shall be notified to the Police Presidium prior to the shipment of explosives. The amendment cancels the word, which in practice means an obligation to immediately announce any detour or change of route. [[18.10 hours]] Now I'm going to stop at the second note, it's a matter of transporting explosives. I remember when this standard arose, and I would like to remind you that according to the existing legislation § 25f paragraph 1 letter. (c) the planned route shall be notified to the Police Presidium prior to the shipment of explosives. The amendment cancels the word, which in practice means an obligation to immediately announce any detour or change of route. We all know what it looks like on the roads today and how a driver of such a vehicle would have to react violently. We know there's gonna be traffic, and he's going around, and he's always looking for the best route. Already today, the transport of explosives is monitored with the help of GPS. Therefore, in my opinion, there is no real reason for any minor change of route to be reported. Even this law has certain pitfalls. You know perfectly well that the law is supplemented by a number of implementing decrees. One of them is Regulation No. 102/1994 Coll. It is a decree of the Czech Mining Authority laying down requirements to ensure safety and health at work and safety of operations in buildings intended for the production and processing of explosives. The second serious regulation is the Decree of the Czech Mining Authority No. 99/1995 Coll., on the storage of explosives. I would like to point out that the Mining Authority is working on these decrees. In my opinion, such serious matters should be given at the same time as the law, but there is a clear promise that these decrees will be adjusted and brought into line with the law and, above all, I will say it to the people to be allowed to take place. So why support the proposed law? I believe that Parliament has also made a mistake, and if we delay the adoption of Act No. 61/1988 Coll. According to the House's Press 653, there would be an undesirable extension of the period when the Czech Mining Authority will be restricted in the exercise of supervision of the market with aids in the use of explosives, as amended by Act No. 22/1997 Coll., approved on 3 March 2016 by the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, it was the House Press No. 656, assumes supervision of the explosives market at the Czech Mining Authority, but not of aids. This gap needs to be removed as quickly as possible and there is no problem in the event of a delay in legal certainty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-20-ps2013-044-06-012-056.u7	Thank you, Mr Václav Snopek. This was the only one registered in writing for the debate. I'm asking who's reporting for the debate from the scene. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? [[He's not interested.]] Neither does the rapporteur. Since there has been no motion to return or to refuse, we can address the motion on the commandment to committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. So we will decide in the vote the serial number 362 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of the Committee's commandment to the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, serial number 362 of the 129 present for 115, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order a proposal to the next Committee. Anyone reporting from the place for the commandment to another committee? It's not like that. We can therefore conclude that the press 653 has been discussed, the guarantee committee is an economic committee and the time limit for discussion is 60 days under the Rules of Procedure Act. I'm done with point 56. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. Let me also say that these are all fixed points. Behind these fixed points are points from the first reading block. According to information from the Senate, Mr. Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš now justifies the law in the Senate, so I am moving paragraph 47 and paragraph 51 to the end of the block of first reading. We're going to continue with the point that's in that block in order, point number 63. Does anyone object to the President's procedure? It's not like that. So we can discuss the point.
