ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-10-ps2013-042-07-021-214.u1	214. Activity Report of the Supervisory Board of the Czech Republic Grant Agency for the period from October 2014 to September 2015 /German press 634/ The report was discussed by the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. The committee resolution was delivered as House Press 634/1. On this point, you also received House Document 3139, which contains the resolution of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports number 127 from its 18th meeting of 4 November 2015. I ask the Committee rapporteur, Mr Miroslav Grebeníček, to inform us about the committee's deliberations and to make proposals for the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-10-ps2013-042-07-021-214.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Audit Board of the Grant Agency, in the period for which it reports, has worked in full staffing of ten members under the Act only until 23 March 2015. Then the month remained two-man. In the April and May elections, only five members were added and in September two were added to the total of nine members. The situation of the ongoing elections, when the Audit Board of the Grant Agency of the Czech Republic was forced to work in incomplete formation, must be regarded as a serious external complication for the work of the Council by the Chamber of Deputies. Yes, we should be aware of this reproach and avoid similar steps next time. The decisive standard activity of the Czech Grant Agency was the provision of special-purpose support for the solution of grant projects in the reference period. [[12.40 hours]] The incomplete composition of the Audit Board of the Grant Agency of the Czech Republic could perhaps explain the year-on-year reduction in the number of inspections at the evaluation panels and the field commissions from 70 to 47. In the list of control boards found shortcomings, a number of them are again traditionally repeated from the previous year. There are repeated problems in the area of the efficient use of funds. The Board found shortcomings in the drawing of individual budget appropriations without prior approval by the provider, the incorrect drawing and accounting of funds under individual items, the unauthorised drawing of funds for reimbursement of costs not related to the project under consideration and the like. The use of funds provided to cover the personal costs of students working to solve the project for other purposes was also frequent offenses. In the list of positive trends in the development and operation of the Grant Agency of the Czech Republic, which was mentioned by the Audit Board, it is particularly worth paying attention to the fact that the number of applications excluded for formal reasons is only 1% and that transparency has increased and the selection of project application opponents has been optimised. The Board of Auditors of the Grant Agencies of the Czech Republic has dealt with 23 complaints about the failure to grant or the outcome of the opposition procedure and the decision of the Bureau of the Grant Agency of the Czech Republic, which is thus a decline compared to 39 complaints for the previous year. Ladies and gentlemen. As part of the general debate on the issue of the Grant Agency Audit Board and its report so far, everything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-10-ps2013-042-07-021-214.u3	I thank Mr Miroslav Grebeníčk and open a general debate in which I have no written application. I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the scene. I don't see anyone. I am ending the general debate. We will proceed to the debate in detail, which Mr Grebeníček has signed up for. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-10-ps2013-042-07-021-214.u4	Yes, I will be here, Mr President, very specific. It is a resolution of the Guarantee Committee, which is said among other things: Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports after the reasons of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Czech Republic Grant Agency Stanislav Labík, the report by Mr Miroslav Grebeníček first recommends The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic take note of the Report on the Activities of the Supervisory Board of the Grant Agencies of the Czech Republic for the period from October 2014 to October 2015. Secondly, he instructs the President of the Committee of Mr Jiří Zlatuška to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Finally, thirdly, he instructs the Committee rapporteur, Mr Grebeníček, to deliver this resolution at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which I have just done. However, I must point out that another resolution is also part of the committee's discussions. And we certainly can't forget him. Yes, the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, following the reasoning of the President of the Board of Auditors of the Czech Republic, Stanislav Labík, the report by Mr Miroslav Grebeníček, and, first, after the debate, recommends the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to adopt this resolution as well: The Chamber of Deputies sets out the provisions of Section 36 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 7 of Law No 130/2002 Coll., on the promotion of experimental development and innovation research, as amended, the amount of remuneration to members of the Audit Board of the Grant Agency of the Czech Republic, as stated in the written basis. Secondly, he instructs the President of the Committee of Mr Jiří Zlatuška to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, and thirdly, he instructs the rapporteur, Mr Grebeníček, to present this resolution at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I certainly do not need to remind Mr President that we need to vote separately on each resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-10-ps2013-042-07-021-214.u5	Okay, thank you. Who's next for a detailed debate? If no one else, I can end the debate in detail. Let's take a vote. First of all, the proposal contained in the Houses of the Press 634/1, which is taking note of the report. Well, that's a point one recommended. We would then vote on House document 3139 and that would be a recommendation for the approval of remuneration to members of the Grant Agency. The vote is by law separate, so we will vote twice. The first vote, the adoption of the report on the Grant Agency's activities, the 308 vote I started, and I ask who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 308. Of the 131 Members present for 117, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will therefore now vote on the resolution contained in the Houses of Document 3139, which is a recommendation for the approval of remuneration to members of the Board of Auditors of the Grant Agency. I've started voting number 309 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 309. Of the 133 Members present for 113, against no one. The proposal was also accepted. I thank my colleague Grebeníčk and finish point 214. Before we proceed to paragraph 215, I will state the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, from 14.30 until the end of the meeting day the Minister of Interior Milan Chovanec apologizes, from 12.15 to the end of the meeting day Mr. He also apologizes for today's meeting from now on, Mr Ivan Pilný. And Mr. First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš apologizes for this afternoon's work. My colleague Volný from 14.30 to the end of the working day. Mr Klaška from 11.15 to the end of the day of the hearing. As well as Mrs Olga Havlová, she apologizes for the negotiations until the end of today's meeting day. Well, that was an apology. We can continue with point number
