ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u1	21. Government bill on consumer credit / House print 679/ - second reading I thank my colleague Klašek for taking up his seat at the rapporteur's table because he is the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, which is the Committee on Guarantee. For the 679 press, this is a second reading and, under the authority of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister Andrej Babiš will be mentioned. I beg you, Vice-President, to take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government bill on consumer credit represents a new comprehensive regulation on consumer and mortgage credit, which is also implemented by the European Housing Credit Directive. The proposal was presented in detail at first reading. Let me repeat the most important thing now. In particular, the Law strengthens consumer protection, increases the rights of distributors of retail credit products and improves the conditions for effective supervision of non-bank providers and credit intermediaries. It also transfers all licence and supervisory powers newly to the Czech National Bank. The bill thus responds to the resolution Chamber of Deputies number 367/2014, in which the government was called upon to tighten the requirements imposed on persons operating on the credit market. The improvement of the position of clients is mainly due to the extension of the scope of the Act on so-called micro-credits of up to CZK 5,000, and the ceiling of the total amount of contractual penalty for late payment to 0,1 per cent per day as well as, for example, the reduction of the debtor's costs for early repayment of the housing loan. At all stages of the legislative process, the new form of consumer credit regulation has been thoroughly consulted both with the general public and with all MPs and senator clubs. After the first reading, the bill was ordered to the Budget and Constitutional Law Committee, which discussed it and issued relevant resolutions to it, in which they agreed to the draft law and proposed certain amendments. I would like to ask you, in this context, to carefully consider for each amendment not only its expected benefits but also its likely costs so that the declared benefit to the client does not, as a result, turn against its interests, which is certainly not the aim of any of us. The new regulation of the credit sector will trigger the need to amend several related laws. The draft of these amendments is the subject of a separate draft amendment law. Since the bill significantly strengthens consumer rights, it is desirable that it becomes effective as soon as possible. I therefore note that the debate will propose a reduction of the deadline for the discussion of the guarantee committee to seven days, so that the third reading of the bill can take place at this meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u3	I thank the Minister of Finance and the Deputy Prime Minister. Before we proceed, Mr Okamura and Mr Radim Fiala's apology was received from 18.30 to the end of the day. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Constitutional Legal Committee. The committee resolution was delivered as House prints 679/1 to 679/4. First, I will ask Mr Jaroslav Klaška to take the floor as rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets, and Mr Radek Vondráček will be prepared. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u4	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members, Government, Mr President. The Committee on Budgets dealt with this draft law on 30 March at its 38th meeting, and allow me to introduce you to its resolution: After the opening words of Deputy Minister of Finance Lenka Jurošková, Mr Jaroslav Klaška's report and following the debate, the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies recommends, first, that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies approve the Government's bill on consumer credit, House press 679, as amended by these amendments - which are listed under the House's press number 679/3. If I read it now, it would be too long. Secondly, it empowers the rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u5	I thank the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and now ask the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee of Mr Radek Vondráček to inform us about the negotiations in the Constitutional Committee. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u6	Mr President, thank you for the floor. The Constitutional Committee discussed this press on 30 March 2016 and, following the reasoning of the Deputy Minister of Finance, Dr. Lenka Jurošková, Mr. Radek Vondráček's intelligence report, and after the debate, the Constitutional Committee decided that, firstly, it recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to approve the proposal; Secondly, it recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to adopt amendments and additions to this bill as set out in this paragraph - I refer to the written version; Thirdly, it instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament and empowers the Committee rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies meeting on the results of this draft law at a meeting of the Constitutional Legal Committee. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u7	I thank the rapporteur of the constitutional committee, Mr Radek Vondráček, and I am opening a general debate. This is a number of entries, the first is Mr Radek Vondráček and I therefore ask for his personal statement, not his intelligence. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u8	Thanks again for the word. I have separated these two speeches because I have been asked by my fellow Member Chvojka to speak on his behalf. He's not here today, he's duly excused. The House is proposing an amendment to this press concerning an extension of the deadline - or, on the contrary, a shortening of the period laid down by this law for the application or exercise of a lien. [[18.30 hours]] It is based on the view that the proposed regulation in the draft law does not contradict the new Civil Code as well as the consumer protection law, insolvency law and other regulations. The Civil Code and other regulations state that enforcement should not be delayed. The generally applicable legal rule that law favors the watchful is thus negated. By combining the time limits laid down by this law and other regulations, namely the recently amended consumer protection law and its amendment to the out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes, we will be able to see that the effective time limit for the real launch of the monetary activity is nine months. Moreover, during this period, when the provider cannot recover, interest increases and ultimately costs the consumer more and it is clear that there may also be possible dispositions or impairments of credit protection over that period. This is a nonsense measure that, instead of protecting the debtor, will rather damage it. So much for Mr. Chvojka's contribution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u9	Have a good evening. I thank Mr Vondráček. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mrs Věra Kovářová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask the Minister one question. Lately, there's been a lot of talk about peer to peer model credit - simply a situation where people lend to people, as we probably know from a lot of busy ads. Given that this model, although recorded globally by the boom, is regarded as a relatively risk to investors, but also as a source of new debtors, I have raised this question, i.e. as the bill responds to this boom and to these risks, I raised this question to the Committee on Budgets. The Deputy Minister told me she was responding. I would therefore like to ask the petitioner how this proposal responds to the specifics of these loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mr David Kádner. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of this proposal is to limit annual percentage rates of costs, the so-called RPSN. In our opinion, the government's proposal brings some partial improvements, but the law does not address the essentials, and these are thievingly high interest on loans. The only way to solve the problem is to follow the pattern of other countries, by putting an end to the RPSN. The proposal thus defines precisely the bands in which the RPSN is not considered legal. To a certain extent, the proposed amendment is based on a model that is applied in Belgium, for example, at a floating interest rate, combined with fixed limits in extreme declines or increases in calculation bases. On the basis of the calculation, the Lombard rate announced by the Czech National Bank is the best reflected in the price of money on the financial market and is used to interest the price at which commercial banks borrow money from the Czech National Bank. Unfortunately, long-term practice has shown that the state is not able to face usury in any other way. The law enforcement authorities have not yet been able to apply criminal law to prevent the huge expansion of loan sharking in the Czech Republic. Everything is underlined by the fact that only a very small proportion of suspicious loans end up in practice in court. The vast majority of people who have been victims of loan sharks are not judged because they have no money or options. That is why it is very important to preventively set rules that give the market and every citizen clear instructions on what weirdness is and what is no longer weird. I note that consumer credit rates are regulated in some way in 13 countries of the European Union. These include Belgium, Estonia, France, Ireland, Italy, Malta, Germany, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Greece, Slovenia and Spain. This proposal is based on the good practice of these countries where the model has proven itself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u13	I thank Mr Kádner. Another duly registered member is Mr Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u14	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore quite late. Originally, I just wanted to justify the proposals I want to make, but after what has just been said here in the general debate, this idea of how we still have to protect everyone from their own stupidity - I'm just pointing out that no one has ever forced anyone to take a consumer credit before, that no one has ever forced anyone to sign a contract where there are too high rates, that the idea that these people are really completely unlegal - and it is spreading to Europe. I know that half of this is the implementation of European directives and that people are unlegal and that every time they do something, they come to the state and say, "How come you didn't protect us any more?" How come we're so stupid? And now we're gonna go complain to somebody and say, "You should have protected us more." I will not object to this bill of law in any way fundamentally. I know that we are in such a social European atmosphere, but I would just like a little bit of that to be said here in this debate - perhaps everyone is responsible for themselves, everyone is responsible for what he signs, and he should be aware of it, and then he should not complain and say: I have signed something wrong, state, protect me. I know that this law has been being prepared for quite a long time, that there was some attempt to reach a compromise with all the market players. He's just the problem, because where banks don't lend, someone else will start lending. So now we're going to try to regulate the market very dramatically for those official borrowers. We're going to find out the same way they found out all over the world that the moment we push some of the entities out of the market, those black borrowers are going to start lending out. And that's it, and we're gonna be in that clean loan shark that's already running in some excluded localities today. It's called a nerdy place. They're going to run at a higher percentage because we're going to regulate this market. I have two amendments that I would like to apply. Excuse me, I'll justify them here. One is to § 14 and that is the capital. The Ministry of Finance's original proposal was 20 million. I admit that, in fact, the Deputy Minister didn't succeed except that she was saying, "Well, we sort of agreed on that to make those subjects less," to justify why it's $20 million. On the constitutional committee, the amendment to 15 went through, but so did the 5-10-15 vote. I think that the reasonable limit is 5 million, and I will suggest this by Section 14 in a detailed debate. I think it's some kind of justified value of the entry capital. But that's no bail. And we know that we have already discussed the issue of these input capitals with fuel distributors once before, and that it turned out that what we adopted was rejected by the Constitutional Court as unconstitutional. So I'm in favour of whether regulation is being introduced, we're in charge, we're in charge of regulation, we're in charge of regulation by educated workers, but we're not in charge of capital. I don't think it's the smartest, and it's just a deal with the strongest groups. The second amendment that I would like to apply concerns § 122 and is a restriction on payments related to consumer delays. There, the Committee on Budgets proposed some partial amendments. See if they've been approved, I understand. There is some original link, which may be contractual fines, which may be the amount of the combination of the contractual fine and the original principal. The Government's proposal contained that it must not be more than 0,7 principal of consumer credit, and the Committee on Budgets proposes 0,5. Yet there remains an incomprehensible amount for me in paragraph 3 which says: There must not be any amount of principal, but a maximum of CZK 200,000. And I don't know why the 200,000 crowns are there. And I even consider it a completely unnecessary measure that only favours the richest, because for those small consumers of 200 thousand there is no sense at all, no value at all. [[18.40 hours]] There it is important that there be a combination of some coefficient and principal consumer credit. But on the contrary, if we have admitted, and it has obviously been admitted that there will also be consumer loans in terms of mortgages on real estate, if they are provided by someone other than a bank entity, it can be property worth five, ten, but also much more millions. You know that these properties are being built here -- some of them are being built here, I'm not saying now, we're building, but some of them are building -- and then the absolute limit of $200,000 doesn't make any sense at all. I think, of course, there's a combination of the amount of consumer credit and some coefficient. And now we're going to vote whether it's 0.7 or 0.5, as the Committee on Budgets suggests. But it seems completely illogical to me that there should be the second amount of the absolute amount, because I think it limits and favours only those who take consumer credit at a high level. And there I see no reason at all why they should be favored. Because now that I'm taking this high consumer credit, that's at least over 350 grand, I'm really supposed to see how I'm making this deal, and I'm really supposed to look at my fines. It seems wrong for us to say in this case: even those who take a million, three, five million, are irresponsible, are responsible for nothing, and we need the state to regulate it in some way. Thank you for your attention. I will make these proposals in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u15	I thank Mr Benda. Now, with Mr Martin Lank's factual remark, the rapporteur with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u16	Thank you for the floor. Although, in principle, I agree with my previous speaker, I cannot agree on one thing, namely that people are not stupid and there is no need to protect them in any way. I don't think this is really about intelligence. In many cases, people at the level of almost professional psychologists often offer various services and loans. They are taking advantage of people who are currently in some difficult, desperate situation, or simply do not understand the economy and do not know how to calculate it. They're just not all geniuses on economics and finance issues. And they're often seniors. I believe that these people need to be protected. After all, a large part of the law is being made because of those who are already in some way having trouble following any rules. Well, if we're all decent and nice, we don't really need much of those laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u17	Thank you, Mr Lank. Now with priority rights, the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u18	Thank you for your attention. I would also respond to the ongoing discussion for which I thank you. But I will ask my fellow Members, through Mr President, to realise, my colleague Kádner, that this matter was discussed here at some point at the beginning of this parliamentary term, and that it was also discussed over the Parliament's proposal for the Dawn, the original one, precisely the restriction of the RPSN. But organization in the field, such as Man in Need, financial arbiter and others, convinced us that this was not the main problem. That the problem here is really impossible to return the loan. That perception is such that weirdness is not when you want to profit from lending money for reasonable profit, but by usury is really when you can't return the, say, marginal loan or loan and is taken from it by means of an executor and similarly a much greater value. That's what this law is fighting now. And to my colleague, Benda, also through Mr President. He beat me to a colleague of Lank who said it quite well. Indeed, there is, or according to the information of people moving in the field, almost organized fraud, which, let's say, an average intelligent person simply does not see. Not everyone is a lawyer, not everyone has to look at a multi-page contract written sometimes in very small letters, let alone check which address to return it to and on which day, if the company even exists there and so on. So ambition is really going against some sort of organized fraud, such as the chain of creditor-defendant-executor. Thank you for your attention for the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u19	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Karel Fiedler. After that, Mr Václav Votava. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u20	Thank you for the floor. I will only respond to the previous speaker, a colleague from the Committee on Budgets and the rapporteur of Mr Klaška. It's true what he said. That's been discussed here. Of all the extensive discussion - and I think that the debate that took place a year and a half or two years ago, although it was not, it was rejected, was very beneficial. Because from the debate, at least I understand that the main problem is not the amount of RPSN, the interest, but sanctions that the annual percentage rate of costs does not cover. I don't want to go up against my colleague Kádner and say that we don't have to or that we shouldn't do this because it's another restrictive measure. And I'm sure we'll all consider how to deal with this proposal, or we'll get this straight. But the primary cause is in sanctions, disproportionately high sanctions, where the fines and the amounts that the person who gets into the debt trap or the problems must pay. So, please, fellow Members, let us bear this in mind when we examine the various amendments and address the priority of this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u21	I thank Mr Fiedler and now duly entered into the general debate by Mr Václav Votava. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u22	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I must agree with Mr Lank on what he has said on the microphone. You know, it's just that the financial literacy of our people isn't at the level at which it should be. A lot of people at RPSN don't say anything at all. Some even have a problem with what interest is. And it makes a difference whether interest is annual or monthly or weekly. It's a hell of a difference. It is certainly a good thing that financial literacy has begun to teach in schools. The older people, of course, already have a problem with that. It's hard to teach them these things. Although I know a certain education is being done and done should definitely be done. And I wouldn't call it the stupidity of these people. And the fact that everyone takes credit voluntarily is true. Mr Benda here spoke of the amendment that was adopted in the Committee on Budgets. Yes, Mr President, an amendment has been adopted - my amendment to sign up for it - which has reduced the contractual penalty in the event of non-payment of the loan from 70 per cent of principal to 50 per cent. But you're right, there's 200,000 left, the maximum limit. You know, the other thing is 70 percent of 20 grand and something else in a million. And she shouldn't have to liquidate the penalty either. The debtor should still have a chance to pay it back in some way. That's what it should be about. So was the motivation of the petitioner, so it wouldn't be liquidation for the debtor. Otherwise, of course, debts are payable, they have to. [[Notes from the diaper.]] Please, no notes. [[Laughs from Members.]] I think that they are not appropriate in this case at all, my colleague, through Mr President. [[18.50 hours]] There was, however, one more amendment, which is quite essential. I don't know if the rapporteur mentioned it because it's from his workshop. That is to say, excluding arbitration clauses from these consumer credit agreements. Because there is certainly an unfortunate experience with these very clauses, when I do not say, for God's sake, that the arbitration courts have no place in this system, I think even the petitioner did not mean it that way. But there's something different when it's applied between entrepreneurs and something else when it's applied between businessmen and citizens. And there really were a lot of times in the past when these people were ripped off by the arbitration process, when it was agreed - and I'm not saying that all those judges are bad, God forbid, I don't want to say that, but there were sometimes those who just took advantage of it and needed to talk to the creditor. That's true. There's been some kind of restriction on the arbitration clauses, but I think the exclusion is entirely appropriate here. Of course there's a trial, etc., so in this case, I'd consider it a pretty good thing. I would like to mention some of the amendments I am making. Several - there are three and, of course, I will join them in a detailed debate afterwards. One such amendment is an amendment that concerns qualifications when it reduces practice from five years to three years. The aim of this amendment is mainly to increase protection, inter alia, for those who have an advanced age, and for them this could be a serious obstacle to obtaining the required formal graduation education for those intermediaries, although they already have years of experience in the field. So that's where we're trying to take it down from basically five years to three years of practice. They must, of course, prove that they really worked in the field for the three years. The other two amendments concern mortgage loans, because mortgages are part of this government bill. First, it is proposed that up to one quarter of the principal be paid free of charge each year without any such penalty fee, so we mean the mortgage loan. The bill allows payment of 20 per cent, so here we propose 25 per cent principal. Of course, the aim is to allow for a reduction in the debt of the person who has a mortgage if he has sufficient resources that he has received in various ways, whether it was an inheritance or in the framework of a divorce settlement, these cases can be a lot, of course legally having the means, and can therefore reduce its debt and gradually repay it. The next amendment concerns the possibility of early one-off repayment of the mortgage loan where the property is sold. Of course, this can happen for a number of reasons. One finds a job on the other side of the Republic, needs to move for those reasons, has a mortgage, so he would like to sell the mortgage-backed property and pay the mortgage or pay the mortgage and, of course, take the mortgage for new housing. Or a common problem is, when married couples get divorced, then, of course, who gets paid for the mortgage, so that there's also a chance to sell one-off, settle and pay off or pay off the mortgage loan. We originally had a proposal in the Committee on Budgets when it was free of sanctions, but I am putting forward a compromise solution, so that the person could do so, one time, in two variants, either after the duration of the mortgage loan of one year, or two years, and so that he could pay the penalty fee with an early termination of the loan, up to 1 per cent of the amount that would be the mortgage loan's supplement, up to a maximum of CZK 50,000. So, ladies and gentlemen, in a nutshell, these are the amendments that I have put into the system and that I will formally apply to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u23	I thank Prime Minister Votav. Two further factual points, first Mr Karel Fiedler with a factual point, Mr Bohuslav Chalupa, then with a factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u24	Thank you. Again, according to the purpose of the factual remark, I will respond to the previous speaker. The chairman of the Votava Budget Committee here said that no one is taking the loan or that no one is taking it involuntarily. Everyone just does it voluntarily. I don't agree. Let's just remember that it's not like that. People get into different situations of life, I could think of a lot of examples. For example, a single parent has children, an ex-husband doesn't pay compulsory maintenance, gets into trouble. If the washing machine stops working, she can wash in her hand if the refrigerator or the stove stops working, it's a bigger problem. He just lives from paycheck to paycheck, and we have a forced loan here. At that point, you don't think so much about what the circumstances are, you really need to deal with them. Because the previous speaker here said "no notes," I also know a political party that takes credit, even though she certainly didn't want it, and that's in large amounts. In small amounts, this also applies to citizens who get into trouble and have to deal with something like this. Which is why we need to set some parameters, as my colleague Lank said. And what was said here, that it was said correctly, doesn't always make people think about it. If everyone was careful, we all have driver's licenses, why we have limited speed - so we don't drive too fast. For the same reason not to be high speeds, it is good to think a little bit about not being high sanctions and high interest. So the main idea of what I wanted to say is that far from all of us are willing to take these loans and loans.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u25	I thank Mr Fiedler. Mr Václav Votava, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Pardon me, Mr Bohuslav Chalupa first, then Mr Václav Votava.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u26	Thank you for the floor, just very briefly. Each coin has two sides. I do not agree that someone is taking loans involuntarily, no way. Because I've dealt with it, we know for example. the case of pensioners who took ten such non-bank loans, paid their grandchildren etc., have nothing, the house has no value, and those people then make personal bankruptcy and the creditors get 30 percent. So there's a problem that people are taking advantage of. And, of course, there's also the thing about those non-bank consumer credit providers, why they don't themselves have some sort of association where they have a loan register, because even those who lend money are actually acting like crazy because they don't even find out, and maybe they don't even have a chance to find out that this guy already has five other loans. They're putting themselves in some kind of danger, and it's their business whether they get the money back or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u27	Thank you. Now, finally, Mr Václav Votava, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u28	I just wanted to set the record straight because I was talking about the penalty fee. Right, these are the costs that the bank has to incur with the early repayment of the mortgage loan. So it's not a penalty fee in the true sense of the word, as I said.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u29	That was the last point of fact so far. Now duly signed up for the general debate, Mr Petr Kudela.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u30	Hello. Mr President, honourable members of the government, this has already been dropped. Mr Lank has very nicely addressed the need to protect consumers because we cannot confuse business with a crook, I do not want to say stealing. Cases where there is a minor breach of contract are punished with very strict sanctions and this needs to be prevented. The Consumer Protection Association, which I have consulted, welcomes it very much and considers it to be a good one. However, it draws attention to those cases in order to protect the consumer or to at least give good attention to sanctions that threaten him in the event of minor non-compliance with the contract. I looked online at a company that offers consumer credit. Until one clicks "I agree to terms," it doesn't get any further. I have read both terms and conditions, both general and individual conditions, which were enough to just click to get further, and I have found that the conditions are very imperfectly made, refer to non-existent provisions and so on. How easy - click and commit to something you will regret immensely. I have prepared a four-part amendment in this matter, and my amendment also concerns the telephone negotiation of consumer credit, because there are companies that offer telephone consumer credit, everything is recorded, which means that they have evidence on their side. Their victims, who voluntarily commit themselves to it, however much to do, usually remain eyes for crying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, have a nice evening. Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. President Kalousek is now reporting with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u32	Excuse me, I haven't been able to press a factual remark on Mr. Fiedler, so I'm dealing with this in a procedural manner and I'm asking for understanding. He compared the situation to the fact that even though we're all reasonable and we have driver's licenses, we also have a speed limitation law. I'd take the liberty of making a little more appropriate comparison. It's a simile that we can use to regulate gambling or to regulate the consumption of alcoholic beverages, which is certainly also appropriate, but if we overdo it, it won't play less or drink less, but the demand will shift to a grey and black zone. I agree that not everyone doesn't always take the loan simply because they want to, but that they are essentially pushed to do so in some way. A man like that, if he doesn't get it, because he's not totally bonita, so under the conditions that we're setting up right now, he's not gonna get the loan, so that doesn't mean he's not gonna borrow it. He moves into a grey or black zone and borrows from entities that are not regulated and which do not use execution orders to recover their claims, but blunt bats and sharp razors. So I am not quite sure that we will improve this situation, and I am asking that we be extremely discreet about being careful when we vote on the amendments at the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u33	Thank you, too. Now, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u34	Thank you again for the floor. I would still like to sign up, or to justify that I will be reading in a moment in a detailed debate, on the one hand, some legislative technical amendments, on the other, three amendments. Two of them are merely a fine specification of some interpretation terms, one amendment solves, or tightens up another detail of the law, this is a possible business or provision of consumer credit outside the law, i.e. illegally. So far, there is some kind of sanction or regime that such a provider is entitled only to return the borrowed money. I will read the amendment that allows or will introduce some sanctions and some supervisory regime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u35	Thank you, too. I'll read an apology. From 6:30 p.m. to the end of the day, for reasons of work, Mr Ivan Gabal apologizes. Now, Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u36	Thank you for the floor. I want you to meet some of the amendments I've made that are in the system. The first document has number 4199 and the second document has number 4200. Since I consider these amendments to be important, I would like to justify them quite in detail. The first amendment, which is here under House document 4199: Paragraph 4 of the text of paragraph 5 is inserted after the text of paragraph 5 in the following text: This law shall not apply to the provision of information, recommendations and negotiation of agreements on the deferral of payments under the Mediators Act and the activities of collection agencies as entities whose activities are directed, on the basis of a creditor's mandate, to satisfy claims on or part of a consumer credit granted and payable, provided that the terms of such agreements are reversed by proceedings on the provider's claims, defer payments or change the method of repayment, and if at the same time such information, recommendations and contractual arrangements lead in their summary to the savings of costs which could otherwise arise to the consumer, if the creditor would recover the claim from the loan by judicial, administrative or arbitration proceedings. This does not relieve creditors of the obligation to transfer their obligations under this Act to such an external supplier in the event that they use third party services. Such an agreement shall not, by its nature or content, reduce consumer protection under this law or other legislation and, in the context of this Agreement, only such costs and charges as are envisaged by this law or other legislation may be imposed on the consumer. The provisions of such an agreement which, by its nature or content, would be contrary to the previous sentence shall not be taken into account. And now the reason. One of the intended purposes of the Government amendment to the Consumer Credit Act is consumer protection and the avoidance of consumer overdebting. In order to address the situation in which consumers, for any reason such as illness, loss of employment, debts of family members, divorce and the like, do not pay for their liabilities from previously paid consumer credit, it is apparent, even in the light of many foreign experiences, that it is appropriate for both creditors and debtors if the creditor empowers a third party, usually a professional intermediary of an out-of-court agreement that solves the claim for the consumer before the stage of judicial enforcement. Such an intermediary, thanks to its experience, technical equipment and trained personnel, is able to resolve the situation with a new agreement in the interests of the consumer so that the creditors do not incur additional costs of judicial enforcement which the consumer ultimately carries. This possibility should not be precluded by the fact that such specialised third parties will have to submit to the extremely high demands imposed on consumer credit providers. It therefore seems appropriate to exclude the entities that produce the described activity from the scope of the intended regulation of consumer credit, since they do not actually provide loans by their activities, but help both creditors and debtors - consumers to address the difficulties associated with the loans already granted. In addition, it should be noted that own compliance with the conditions of the law, which do not remember these entities primarily in the obligations imposed on registered entities, would be very problematic. In view of the provisions of Section 91 et seq. of the Civil Code, the issue of the amendment of the terms of the Agreement is necessarily linked to the process of out-of-court treatment of claims and cannot therefore be regarded as an activity of similar provision of consumer credit. In principle, I think that many of you know the situation, when a third party actually enters and tries to agree new payment schedules and the like, so as not to incur additional costs. At the moment the creditor turns to the courts, there will be costs with legal proceedings, and if the creditor is successful, this will increase the cost of the consumer, who, for the reasons that I have mentioned, reminds me of the illness, loss of employment or debts of family members, wants to deal with and is in a situation that he cannot deal with. [[19.10 hours]] The second set of amendments is set out in the House document under number 4200. There's a little more of these proposals, and I'll try to justify them briefly again. To the present paragraph, paragraph 10 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (e). In this paragraph, we propose to cancel the letter. The reasoning is quite simple. According to the Commercial Corporations Act, the Supervisory Board cannot be set up within the limited liability company. Paragraph 10 (a) shall apply. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) it allows the consumer credit provider to be limited liability companies. Thus, points (a) and (e) of this paragraph contradict each other. It is designed to delete the letter. (e) which requires the establishment of a supervisory board. Another amendment. In the present section, paragraph 10 is replaced by the following: The amount to be reported in (h) deleted, the other letters shall be remarked. The provisions of point (b) shall apply. h), which he demands, and now I would like you to pay attention to me, demands realistic... [[Reporter's note off the microphone.]] Mr rapporteur, of course, I have no doubt. This provision requires a realistic business plan as a condition for obtaining an activity authorisation. However, there is nowhere to say what a realistic business plan is or what parameters it should have. In our opinion, there is a corruption area for possible subjective decision-making. We assume that this provision has been applied by analogy, it occurs in the Bank Act, but banks manage their depositors' money, it is simply a different case. So we think it's inappropriate that a non-bank consumer credit provider that doesn't manage with foreign money is then very difficult to determine ahead and decide what a realistic business plan is. If there is, for example, a proposal on this issue. The negative position of the Ministry of Finance, so I would ask for an answer, we will not put it into the law anymore, but an explanation of how the Ministry of Finance, as the promoter of this bill, constitutes a realistic business plan, what parameters it must have and who will actually judge it. I think it's an extremely complicated thing, and it really gives room for subjective decision making. Amendment to Paragraph 11 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union 2, which actually says that if the Czech National Bank does not decide within the deadline, it is considered that the non-bank provider may continue its activities until the Czech National Bank decides on its request. In principle, the proposal follows the addition of a provision according to which the registry administrator would not act, i.e. the non-approval or refusal of the application resulted in the granting of the consent by law, i.e. so-called legal fiction. I mean, when the registry administrator doesn't actually decide within the time limit under the law, we're going to propose that it be viewed as approving. Seems pretty logical to me. At the moment when the registry administrator decides within legal time limits, such a case cannot occur. As regards In the proposed section 26, the sentence behind the semicolon is deleted. And that sentence reads: However, if the provider of an independent intermediary has chosen or supervised him poorly, he is liable for the fulfilment of his obligations to compensate for the damage. Paragraph 2914 of the Civil Code shall not apply. And the reason is quite simple, then it will probably still be with the two amendments that I am proposing. In the explanatory memorandum, it's suggested that it's harmonisation. It's still marked. However, the directive it implements does not contain any such measure. So at least I'd like to know if it's a mistake when it's called harmonisation, because in that case, there's nothing to be done but accept it, but the way we looked at it, the material, the directive doesn't contain any such provisions. K § 35. We propose: the proposed paragraph 35 is deleted and the other paragraphs are exceeded. K § 36. The sentence behind the semicolon is released. It is similar to that of Section 26. Again, this is referred to as a harmonisation point in the explanatory memorandum and in the press itself, and the directive itself does not contain such a thing. The Commission considers that the aid is The following text is proposed: If an immovable property or a immovable property right is used to secure consumer credit, such reinsurance may be carried out in the form of reinsurance institutes under the Civil Code. This is designed to be used in practice throughout the scope of the Institute of Security under the Civil Code. Again, the harmonisation directive does not require any narrowing and, in our view, there is no reasonable reason for such a restriction. Now to the paragraph that has already been discussed today, and that is § 122 para. 3, when the words "at most 200,000 crowns " are released. I think I understand how that amount got there, but I think President Votava said that there is simply a difference according to the amount of consumer credit provided. Sometimes it can be very noticeable, but especially for the higher ones, the amount can be very inadequate. That means if it were for example. for a consumer credit that was worth $40,000 for some consumer goods, the amount is pointless, on the other hand, if the loan were in the order of several million, it's just different. In our view, it turns out that having an absolute amount at the moment you cover a large spectrum of values is not quite a happy solution. Article 123 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides that: 1. We propose that number 6 be replaced by number 3. It sounds quite technical, but I will introduce you to the justification of this proposal. The proposed regulation in the bill contradicts both the Civil Code and the Consumer Protection Act, the Insolvency Act and other regulations. The Civil Code and other regulations state that enforcement should not be delayed. The generally applicable legal rule that law favors the watchful is thus negated. By combining the time limits laid down by this law and other regulations, we will find that the effective time limit for the real launch of the cash operation is nine months. Moreover, during this time, when the provider cannot recover, interest increases and, ultimately, in the finals, it can cost the consumer more than if the activity had started much earlier. And it is clear that even during this period, there may be possible dispositions or impairments of the assets to which the loan is secured. In our view, this is a measure which, instead of protecting the debtor, will rather damage it. That's why we're suggesting we shorten the deadline from six to three. The next amendment is to Paragraph 146 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Article 4 (1) (a) (c) where in fact the proposed diction is "repeatedly or seriously." And we're suggesting that it's "repeated and serious" so that the word "or" falls out. The proposed provision contradicts the principles of administrative punishment defined by the Supreme Administrative Court and the Constitutional Court by its caselaw. The provision that a ban may be imposed on a person who repeatedly or seriously violates any provision of this law is too rubbery and could be tempted to be arbitrary. The moment you put "repeatfully and seriously" there, I think it's absolutely appropriate, which is why we're proposing the release of the word "or." K § 167. We propose to cancel this paragraph, renumber the other paragraphs. In our opinion, this is a retrospective provision. This is both true and false retroactivity. It says that legal requirements should also apply to loans concluded before the date of entry into force of this law. Retroactivity would thus be brought into our legal system. And the last paragraph is effective. It is clear that the proposed effectiveness on 21 March 2016 is not possible given that we are already in April. I understand. I propose January 1, 2017. I am merely saying that in the following law, which is related, I will also propose on 1 January 2017 that, if the House accepts this, both laws will have the same effect. After that, I will only formally sign up for those two House documents in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u37	I also thank you and ask if anyone else is joining the general debate. I see no one, if that is the case, in which case I am ending the general debate. I refer to the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. It's not like that. In that case, then, I am opening a detailed debate, in which I am registering several applications. The rapporteur will therefore speak first. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u38	Thank you. Let me read some legislative technical amendments in a detailed debate. One. In Article 63, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (c) the words "Article 69 (1) (c)'shall be inserted after the words "Article 69 (1) (c) '. 2' cancels the comma. It's because of the grammatical adjustment and the merging ratio. Two. In Section 127, the following points are added: (e) the comma is deleted after the words "according to § 131." Again grammar repair, merge ratio. And third time. In Article 155, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (o) number 161 is replaced by number 162. Correction of the internal legacy. Furthermore, allow me to apply to three amendments. The first is under the number of House document 4184 and it is the amendment, as I said here, that it tightens the regime of illegal business, i.e. if providers do not respect the Czech National Bank's license and still do business on this market, they are still entitled only to the refund of the really borrowed money, not to interest and not to sanctions. However, it is easy to bypass this. Therefore, I would like the supervision of compliance with the obligations of the provider, the intermediary or the persons conducting expert examinations aimed at demonstrating expertise and skills under this present law to be also subject to sanctions, up to 20 million. CZK, and under the supervision of the Czech National Bank, which would have the proper competence to do so. The second amendment is set out in House Document No 4185 and it is a minor technical regulation of the text of the Act in order to avoid the interpretation of the relevant provisions of the Government Bill, according to which credit providers or intermediaries should not pay their distributors remuneration for bringing a new seller into their distribution network. The amendment thus states for sure that this is possible, but the remuneration for bringing in a new seller must not be reflected in any way in the distributor's remuneration for its own activity of providing or providing credit. And to the third time, the House document 4186. Its justification: This is a formulational refinement of the text, which is better suited to the intention to prosecute the lack of selected information in the contract not only by public but also by private sanctions for lack of written form. In view of the fact that the lack of written form of the contract is not aggravated by its invalidity, it is necessary to avoid the possibility for the creditor to rely on an arrangement which has not been concluded in writing against the consumer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u39	Thank you, too. Another duly logged in is President Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u40	Thank you for the floor. I want to formally apply to the amendments, which I have just explained in detail. The first is mentioned in Houses of Document 4199 and the others in Houses of Document 4200.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u41	I thank you and now duly logged in to a detailed debate. First Mr Vondráček, Mr Huml will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u42	Thank you. So, as I announced in the general debate, on behalf of my colleague Chvojka, I had my contribution, I would like to sign up to his amendment, which is under the number 4162 in the system and reads: In the present section 123, paragraph 1, the heading "6' is replaced by the number "3'. And since this may not be sufficient, I would continue to read my own amendment, which is not introduced in a system which I will quote precisely orally, which would be: In the present section 123 paragraph 2, the heading "6' is replaced by the number "3'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u43	Thank you, too. Mr Huml now, Mr Syblík will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u44	Good evening. I want to sign up for two amendments that are in the system first under 4181 and second under 4187. Both of them are duly substantiated in writing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u45	Thank you, too. Now, then, Mr Syblík and Mrs Wernerová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to sign up for my amendments in the system under number 4108. It is a proposal to remove the staff of telephone contact centres of consumer credit providers who do not enter into contracts from the obligation to have a diploma and a professional examination, which should encourage an increase in employment in the regions. It is also an amendment under the number of House document 4109. There it is a proposal to extend the registration for tied representatives from one year to three years, when the trade certificate authorised continuous activity without the need for extension and now the annual renewal of registration would be disproportionate, while at the same time relieve the Czech National Bank of unnecessary administrative burdens. It is also an amendment under the number 4110. It is a technical proposal to clarify the concept of maturity and to replace it with a clearer concept of confirmation. Since the section refers only to the payment of the debt, it is more appropriate to use the words of the confirmation. The eligibility of its legal definition is suitable for issuing by the provider when the debtor pays the entire amount of the debt. It is also an amendment under number 4111. This is a technical proposal for a period until the tied agent is due to hand over the payments to the provider or to enter into the bank. It is now stated immediately, which is a problem on weekends or in the evening. It can thus be logistically very difficult or impossible to deposit the immediately selected debt payment on the provider's account, as the branch of the bank can be very far removed from the household of consumers living in remote locations. Furthermore, the amendment under number 4176. This is about specifying the definition of activities which are considered by law to be the mediation of consumer credit, compared to activities so called. I'm a tip-off. Because the tipper won't close or mediate credit agreements. Furthermore, I would like to read one more amendment, which reads: § 15 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) is amended as follows: the words "rewarding persons directly involved in the assessment of the creditworthiness of the consumer shall not be dependent on the number or proportion of approved consumer credit applications; and" Justification: The proposed adjustment aims to harmonise the requirements imposed on providers regarding their obligation to assess the creditworthiness of the consumer. This obligation of the provider is amended in detail in § 86, and § 87 subsequently regulates penalties for infringements of these obligations imposed by the law. The proposed prohibition on the remuneration of persons involved in the assessment of creditworthiness is therefore redundant, as the law already provides sanctions for providers for the provision of credit in breach of the rules for the assessment of creditworthiness. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u47	Thank you, too. Now, Mrs Wernerová, Mr Votava will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to sign up for the amendment under House document No 4198. The proposed changes are in § 3 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (h) which is amended as follows: The words "or similar" shall be scratched. The reason for this change is to specify the legal definition of the provider's worker as a person who is only in a employment relationship with the provider. Other persons participating in the loan mediation for the provider will be registered as the provider's intermediary as required by this law. It is therefore unnecessary for existing arrangements to include other persons than those in the employment relationship with the provider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u49	Thank you, too. I'll read an apology. Today, from 19.30 to the end of the day, for work reasons, the Minister of the Environment, Richard Brabec, apologizes. And now, please, Mr Votava, Mr Kádner will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to sign up for the amendments that I have announced in the general debate. Firstly, this concerns the House document 4098, which addresses the qualifications. That's what I'm signing up for. I also sign up for the House document 4097, which addresses the repayment of the mortgage loan. And I sign up for House document 4173, which deals with one-off repayment of the mortgage loan in the case of the sale of the property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u51	Thank you, too. I will now ask Mr Kádner and Mr René Číp will be prepared with a speech. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, too, to sign up for my amendment, which I have justified in the general debate. This amendment is under the number of House document 4191. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u53	Thank you, too. Mr René Číp will now prepare Mr Marek Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u54	Mr President, fellow Members, allow me to formally sign up for the amendment in the system as House document under number 4133, including a comprehensive justification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u55	Thank you, too. Now, Mr Marek Benda, Mr Petr Kudela will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u56	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have already mentioned in the debate, so I will now just make proposals because they are not in the system. In Article 14, paragraph 2 is 1 "20 million' is replaced by "5 million'. A v § 122 para. 3 is done at "the principal amount of consumer credit" - period. However, the words "mostly CZK 200,000 " are released. I refer to what I said in the general debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u57	Thank you, too. Mr Petr Kudela, now. Mr Volný Member will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u58	Good evening, Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I am signing up for my amendment, or for my amendments, which I have tabled to the system under the number 4207. In points 1 and 3, I propose to adjust the obligation to provide information on what constitutes a breach of the contract and what penalties are in return. In point 2, I propose that the justified costs arising from the negotiation of the consumer credit be specified. And in point 4, I suggest that we adjust the terms and conditions for the negotiation of telephone contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u59	Thank you, too. Now, Mr Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, my colleague, I would like to ask for an already announced reduction in the time to discuss from 14 days to 7 days between second and third readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u61	Thank you. Please, Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u62	I don't think that's a reasonable suggestion. That law has almost 500 pages. Several dozens of amendments have been made here today in my opinion, and you are forcing us to make decisions on Wednesday. That means eight days. On the budget committee. I think quality should take precedence over speed. Of course, you can say this, but you can admit it when we're here by Friday, how much time we'll have to get to know the Ministry of Finance's position on the various amendments, and how much time we'll have to have some qualified debate on the budget committee. If I listened well to the debate and tried to listen to all the amendments, in principle no one denied the fundamental meaning of the law. It's more of a technical and parametric change, and I think it's a good idea to think about it. So, of course, you can rush, but I don't recommend it, because I think we're gonna need more time on the budget committee than just - and now I don't know when the finance minister is gonna be able to tell when the Ministry of Finance's position is gonna come up. Some amendments have said that they are not even in the system yet, that is, before it even gets processed, so it will be tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. So I really recommend that we do not approve this proposal, leave it to the right time, and we have enough time to discuss it in the Committee on Budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-007-021.u63	Thank you, too. I see no one else reporting for a detailed debate. This is the case, in which case I conclude the detailed debate and ask the rapporteur and the Minister for final words whether you want to marry. It's not like that. In a detailed debate, a proposal was made to shorten the deadline for the third reading to seven days. We will vote on this proposal. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. I'm registering a request for your check-out. So I'm going to check you out and ask you to re-enlist with your cards. And I repeat what we are going to vote on. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour of cutting the deadline for seven days, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 222, 104 Members are registered, for proposal 43, against 46. I am of the opinion that this proposal has not been approved. I'm done discussing this point. I'm opening up another point in today's meeting.
