ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-000-000.u1	Madam, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 47th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. I'd like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, let me know who's applying for a replacement card. I still have three spare cards. Mr Okleštěk will be voting with card number 8 today, Mr Hamáček with replacement card number 3 and Mr Tejc with replacement card number 13. I am saying that these Members have asked to apologise for their failure to attend today's meeting: Mr Šarapatka apologizes within 10 hours for reasons of work. Furthermore, the following Members apologize: Mr Vojtěch Adam for health reasons, Ivan Adamec for no reason, Hana Aulická Jírovcová for work Zlatuška, Jiří Běhounek for work reasons, Zdeněk Bezecný for work reasons, Jan Birke for work reasons, Matěj Fichtner for foreign travel Jaroslav, Pavel Holík for work reasons, Bohuslav Chalupa for health reasons, Šidlo Jermanová for Zavadil reasons, Václav Klučka for personal Votava, Rom Kostřica for work reasons, Věra Kovářová for work reasons, Martin Lank for work Vyzula, Leo Luzar for personal reasons, Šánová Nykl for health Zahradníček, Jana Pastuchová for 11 hours for health reasons, Gabriela Pecková for work Zdeněk, for work Soukup, Pavel Plzák for personal reasons, Ivo Pojezný for family reasons, Roman Procházka from 14.30 for work, Miloslava Rutová until 10.30, for reasons, Adam Rykalová for Jiří, for personal Skalický, for Josef, for personal reasons, for Zuzana, for Jiříštová for reasons, for Volný, for personal reasons, for reasons, for Helena, for Válková for reasons of the reasons of the reasons of the Jan of the first time of work of work of the first time of work of work of the first time of work, Jiříštová. Further apologizes to the following members of the government: Pavel Bělobrádek for work reasons, Richard Brabec for work reasons, Jiří Dienstbier for work reasons, Milan Chovanec from 10 to 11.30 hours for work reasons, Marian Jurečka to 11 hours and from 14.30 to 18 hours for work reasons, Michaela Marksová due to foreign travel, Svatopluk Němeček from 17 hours for work reasons, Robert Pelikán to 13 hours for work reasons, Martin Stropnickýý due to foreign travel, Dan Ťok for work reasons, Kateřina Valachová until 14.30 hours for work reasons. As of 9.50 pm, he apologizes to the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government and Secretary of Finance Andrej Babiš. Today's meeting will begin at paragraph 231, which are the answers of the members of the government to written interpelations. Please note that applications for oral interpelations may be submitted no later than 11 o'clock and their draw will take place at 11.30 p.m. So we're going to go ahead and talk about this.
