ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 42nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. The Organizing Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set up a proposal for a 42nd meeting on Thursday 18 February and the invitation was sent to you on Friday 19 February. I'd like you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr David Kádner and Mr Jaroslav Klaška as the verifier of this meeting. I'll ask if anyone else has a suggestion. It's not like that. Let's take a vote. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that the verifiers of this meeting be members of Kádner and Klaška, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 1. It's registered 95, 88, no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have designated the verifiers for the 42nd meeting of Mr David Kádner and Mr Jaroslav Klaška. More information - colleague Tejc has card number 11. I would like to inform you that, before the opening of the meeting, the following Members have asked for an apology: Mr Gabrhel - working grounds, Mr Heger - working reasons, Mrs Hnyková - working reasons, Mr Horáček - personal reasons, Mrs Chalánková - personal reasons, Vice-President Jermanová - health reasons, Mr Kolovratník - working reasons, Mr Koředník - health reasons, Mr Nykl - health reasons, Mr Plíšek - personal Kořenek, Mr Šincl - personal reasons, Mr Urban - health reasons, Mrs Válková - health reasons, Mr Volčík - family reasons, Mr Vondrášek - health reasons, Mrs Zelienková - foreign travel and Mr Zlatuška - working reasons. From the members of the government, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek apologizes from 5:45 pm for working reasons, Minister Dienstbier - working reasons, Minister Marksová - foreign travel, Minister Mládek - family reasons, Minister Němeček - without reason, Minister Pelikán - personal reasons, Minister Stropnickýý - without reason, Minister Valachová - working reasons and Minister Zaorálek - personal reasons. So many apologies. We will now proceed to the 42nd meeting. His proposal is listed on the invitation. Only one proposal from today's Gremium, in order to comply with the President of the Defence Committee's request and eliminate paragraph 221, which is press 703, the report on military exercises in 2016, from the draft agenda of the 42nd meeting. That's all on my side. Now, please, all those who want to sign up for the agenda. First, Mr Okamura and then Mrs Olga Havlová, and then all the others that I see.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose the inclusion of an extraordinary item on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies meeting entitled Announcement of a referendum on the Czech Republic's withdrawal from the European Union and I ask for its approval. British Prime Minister Cameron criticized the European Union, enforced changes and subsequently announced a referendum by the Brit to resign from the European Union. What led him to do so? Surprisingly, he had one reason - an effort to keep Britain in the European Union. He chose exactly the opposite procedure than the Czech government, which is absolutely uncritical to Brussels and sloppyly accepts any dictatorship and breach of Czech national sovereignty. [[There's too much noise in the room.]] Not only the Brit, but also the Czech citizens are not satisfied with the current form of the European Union, which results from all available opinion polls. It is perfectly legitimate for citizens to tell the government in a referendum whether we want to be in the Union or not. We have entered the European Union on the basis of a referendum and it is an absolutely indisputable right of Czech citizens to vote at any time in another referendum on the continuation of the Czech Republic in the European Union. Our government has neither legitimacy nor any right to defend citizens in a referendum. I ask the House to put the referendum on the agenda and commit the Government to holding a referendum. Three times in the last year -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-000-000.u3	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. Colleagues, colleagues, please remain calm. Take your seats and please listen to Mr Okamura's proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-000-000.u4	I know that, as usual, the referendum of the citizens of other parties does not interest, so thank you for helping me to at least hear me here. Three times last year, our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy - the SPD here in the House proposed a referendum on the Czech Republic's withdrawal from the European Union, and three times you Members of the other parties rejected this proposal. This January, too, in the House, you dropped our petition, signed online and offline by over 100,000 citizens. However, the situation has again progressed, and the subject of the European Union's withdrawal is becoming more and more intense and there is a need to launch a social debate, to enable citizens to express their future in a referendum, and there is nothing to wait for in this regard. We have elections ahead of us this year and next autumn, so it is not a technical or economic problem to link the referendum with this year's regional elections or next year's elections to the Chamber of Deputies. I ask for your support and for you to allow democracy for Czech citizens and to allow them to vote in a referendum on the withdrawal from the European Union, that is to say about your own future in your own country. Thank you for your attention and for the fourth time in the last year, please support the proposal for our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy - SPD. [[There's still noise in the room.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I request that an extraordinary item be placed on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies on the question of Czech citizen Petr Jašek, who was captured by the Sudanese authorities and is expected by the Islamic Court for documenting Islamist crimes against the Christian minority in Sudan. Our citizen Petr Jašek has been in the hands of Islamic justice for several months. All of us, I hope, can imagine what he's going through in a country where torture is an obvious part of the law. The Czech Government, through our diplomatic representation, knows the whole situation, but it is still quiet by foot to this day. We all remember the hype that triggered the media and then the Czech government -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-000-000.u5	I apologize once again and ask the House for peace. I beg you to settle down, not discuss and listen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-000-000.u6	We all remember the hype that triggered the media and then the Czech government when Czech political exhibitionists were arrested in Cuba. And here we have a decent person who helps Christians, but there is no sign of any big initiative from the Czech side. The Czech Republic must do its utmost without delay so that we do not allow this man to be tortured or condemned by the Islamist regime, and we know from the information available that he may already be expected by the Islamic court in Sudan this month. The House should first ask the government for all available information. Furthermore, we must officially turn to the Government of Sudan and demand the extradition of our citizen. You know that our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement - the SPD is proposing a referendum on staying in the European Union, and here is a great opportunity for the Union to prove its validity. The Czech Government should immediately request cooperation with the European Union, and it must appeal immediately to the Government of Sudan to release our citizen. Until our citizen is released, the Sudanese ambassadors should be expelled from the European Union and political and economic sanctions imposed on Sudan. [[Time limit alert.]] I have five minutes to justify each point. I'm suggesting a second point, and I've got about a minute. If the European Union is capable of harrassing sanctions in the event of unconfirmed and unconfirmed accusations, it could certainly use sanctions against a country that abducts European citizens and threatens them with torture and killing. After all, the reason for arresting our citizen in Sudan is terrifying. He reportedly made a video with a Christian whom Muslims tried to burn for being a Christian. As the name of the point that we would vote on, and I would like to ask for it, I propose the name of the Czech Republic's procedure on the detention of Czech citizen Petr Jašek in Islamic Sudan. Thank you for your attention and I beg your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-000-000.u7	Yes. With that, you propose that these two points be the first points of today's House meeting. Before Mrs Havlová comes forward, the Minister of Culture wishes to speak with priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-000-000.u8	Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to comment on the proposal that has just been made here, as a priority right. Surely this is a very serious matter that we should consider. But I want to resolutely oppose the fact that citizens of the Czech Republic who advocated human rights issues in Cuba have been labeled as exhibitionists. I have to say no to that. Sadly, in such a serious context of the proposed question, the good name of the people who really fought for the issue of human rights is tarnished in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-000-000.u9	Please, Mrs Olga Havlová. After that, Vice-President Vojtěch Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-000-000.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose the inclusion of a new point, namely information from the Minister of Industry and Trade on the illegal payment of aid for renewable resources. I would like to place the item tomorrow as the first item in the afternoon's meeting, i.e. at 14.30. The story of illegal payment of aid for renewable resources has been dragging on for several years. On the subject of the independence of EROs and solar support, I held a seminar in 2014. In 2015, my colleague David Kádner addressed this issue at a seminar on the Defence Committee because the amendment to the Energy Act threatened the state's energy security. The amendment to the Energy Act, as the Minister knows, was full of mines and we fought them hard. I'm sure you'll remember our speeches, where we pointed out the problems. Some things, such as support for solar power plants, were so obvious that they retreated and were legally excluded. On the contrary, some things, such as. The tariffs, but they stayed in the law, and you pushed them through, and now you're criticizing them. As an opposition party, we have prepared an amendment to remove the biggest problems. For example, a contradiction between the energy law and the service law, for which the leadership of the ERO and its independence have been questioned. We want to discuss the substance of the matter within this point. Discuss why each of us is paying 4.5 grand. annually for disproportionate subsidies to solar power plants. It is clear to Brussels that it must not be paid if the European Commission does not approve. And it's definitely not approved. When the ERÚ pointed that out, you wanted to get rid of his leadership. Now in February, the first illegal payout was 4 billion. crowns out of our pockets. Money didn't have to be paid, even not allowed. That is why I call on all of you to say what right it is to pay 4 billion. monthly for solar subsidies without notification. Who is signed after the decision of the market operator to repay these funds. These are the main reasons why I propose this point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-000-000.u11	Thank you. I beg Vice-President Vojtěch Filip, after him President Černoch, after him President Mihola.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-000-000.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to propose the inclusion of a new item at the 42nd meeting of our Chamber of Deputies. I have to place this point in front of point 202, as the first point in the news block. I'm not suggesting his exact inclusion yet, considering how he's going to be included in the meeting at all. The item would be called Information of the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice on the number and status of investigations into acts of privatisation and of those registered debts on unpaid state property. In particular, I call for the number of court proceedings conducted by the State against these privatizers, the number of cases that have already been suspended and the number of cases that will be suspended in 2016. Furthermore, I would like to hear in this information what steps are being taken by the expert departments of the ministries, or police forces, respectively. At the Justice Department of the State's Attorney's Office, so that there is no statute of limitations. It is also a question of whether the ministries are preparing an amendment to the criminal law concerning the Government's procedure, respectively. both ministries to avoid damage to state property. And the third question that I would like to answer on this point, the report by the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice, is, if an error has been found in the work of civil servants, particularly in the last ten years, that is, in the period of the general limitation of the offence of an official, whether it is an excess of the authority of a public official, or failure to comply with the obligation to administer foreign property, whether such offences are being investigated by officials or prosecuted, and how the State continues to proceed. The last part of this information would require that, in the event that the findings in this area would result in large-scale damage, whether the government is prepared to issue a special standard that would bring the stolen property back to its administration. I ask for the support of such a point in our meeting, because I believe that it is also our duty, as not only the legislature, but also the Chamber of Deputies, which is charged with controlling the government's activities, to find out how it is handled by the property of a state which is not yet properly secured, or in foreign hands, and the State cannot manage it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-000-000.u13	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for giving me the proposal for a new point in writing because it was quite extensive. I beg the President of the Černoch, and after that, the President of Mihola will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-000-000.u14	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to propose the inclusion of a new point entitled Information Minister of Industry and Trade on the new electricity tariff structure, and this will be the first point of the afternoon negotiations tomorrow. The Dawn MP's club met with the management of the ERU today. We've been planning our visit for a long time on March 1st, because until yesterday, the government was in danger of trying to put its leadership in this office from now on. We are pleased that today we have not assisted the police force, but that we have met with the independent management of the Energy Regulatory Office. Yesterday's last-minute government decision confirmed our long-term position that the office cannot fall under the service law but must be independent. The government defied the energy lobbyists at the last minute, but that doesn't mean they won't try anything like that again. After all, the rejection of our amendment, which would address the status of the ERU by law, suggests that nothing in this country is definitive. The impact of the energy lobby is clearly visible on dances around new tariffs. The tariffs were prepared by the management team in which both the energy companies and the Ministry of Industry and Trade were represented. But now the Ministry is taking his hands off these tariffs. I would like to draw attention to the need to make a new electricity tariff structure. The government approved new tariffs in the update of the state energy concept. This concept was submitted by the MIT and everything is done and prepared for the MIT. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the space for such tariffs was created because of the amendment of the Energy Act, which the House Minister Mládek pushed through and we warned very strongly about. The Minister has put his head on the line for not increasing energy due to the amendment to the Energy Act. New tariffs, however, are to lead to higher prices. And we want to explain these steps to the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. Mr Mihola, please, and Mr Lank will be prepared after.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-000-000.u16	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to ask for the firm inclusion of the House of Press 489, the amendment to the Act on Support for Research, Experimental Development and Innovation of the EU, for next Tuesday, i.e. 8 March 2016 as the first item of the programme. Because I'm asking for it outside the Gremium, so I've informed all the presidents of the MPs. And I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-000-000.u17	Thank you and please Mr Lank, Mr Ondráček after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-000-000.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen, good afternoon and from me. Let me ask again for a hearing and therefore a fixed classification of item number 112. It is a proposal for the Dawn to issue a referendum on the European Union's immigration quotas. I would ask for this point to be included for today's already fixed points. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think there's much point in talking about the uncertain future of Schengen. I recall the statements made by Brussels' top politicians about how Schengen's fate will be decided in the coming days. In this context, I would like to recall the growing importance of the V4 and, above all, the strategic importance of the V4 joint action in foreign policy against Brussels. With my colleagues from Dawn, I ask that we discuss today the same referendum on quotas approved last week by Prime Minister Orbán's government in Hungary. Within the framework of the V4 position of Hungary and Slovakia, Poland, too, is much braver than the position of Prime Minister Sobotka's government towards Brussels. Before the House elections and social democracy, it promised a bill of referendum, which is now purposefully parked in the House, and so far it is not the will of the government coalition to do anything about it. Please, let us give the people of this country, our citizens, the right to decide whether to take immigrants from Germany on the basis of quotas. Please, let us give people the right to say whether they want to follow Hungary and Slovakia in a negative anti-quota position. I am not hiding that our goal is to join Hungary with a referendum not only the Czech Republic but also other countries. If a referendum were to take place in more European countries and the quotas were to be rejected, it could really stop them. Indeed, no government, neither Prague nor Brussels, could face the rejection of quotas in a referendum. In this Czech referendum, we want to ask citizens the following questions: Firstly, do you agree that the Czech Republic does not respect any legal act of the European Union on the relocation of applicants for international protection? Secondly, do you agree that the Czech Republic should bring an action before the Court of Justice or join such an action against any EU act on the relocation of applicants for international protection? Dear Prime Minister, please stop worrying about subsidies. Please stop worrying about Brussels officials and Mrs Merkelová being angry with you, and please ask your own citizens what they really want. Stop worrying about direct democracy and the referendums you promised the citizens before the elections. I beg you to allow our law to be negotiated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-000-000.u19	I ask Mr Zdeněk Ondráček to prepare Mr Vilímec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-000-000.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear government, colleagues, before I say which point I would like to place firmly, let me tell you a little story. Imagine that you're 18 years old, you're studying high school, you're going to high school, you're going to high school after graduation, because you're a good student, you might be going to college. Unfortunately, your biological parent will tell you that the second biological parent who does not live with you in your household and has a duty to pay for you nutritiously does not fulfil this maintenance obligation, and the person with whom you live in that household does not have the economic income to support you further at this school. It is a paradox that many perhaps even skilled students can no longer study and have to go for a living because a biological parent does not fulfill his maintenance obligation. The current legislation makes it possible that, in the event of failure to comply with such maintenance obligations under the Enforcement Order, an enforcement order may be issued to suspend a driving licence. At the time of writing my amendment, which has been joined by several colleagues across the political spectrum, this institute says that it is widely used and in about 2200 cases it has been applied at the time of processing, and those who do not pay, those parents, rather than lose their driving license, have paid their debt to a minor child. When we drew up this proposal, the government took a neutral position and more or less stated that, in the current concept of law, there is disproportion, when the law already allows such a thing, but for incomprehensible reasons children over 18 years of age are excluded from this possibility. The amendment is relatively simple and short. It extends the existing Section 71a of the Enforcement Order for persons over the age of 18 to the age of 26 who prepare for their next, future life with a continuous study. It is quite simple, I don't think it will take much time, and I would like to see this point, given that this proposal has already been parked here in the House for more than 20 months, to discuss it, and therefore I propose its firm inclusion on this Thursday 3. 3. 11 hours after fixed points. Thank you for your support and your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-000-000.u21	Thank you. Please Mr Vilímec and Mr František Laudát will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-000-000.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to propose a solid inclusion of item number 90. This is the House press 403 of the Parliament's draft amendment to Act No. 212/2009 Coll., on the mitigation of property grievances to citizens of the Czech Republic for property they left in the territory of the Podkarpatské Rusi, on the next Tuesday, 8 March 2016 as the first point after the points already included. If Mr Mihola's proposal had been passed, I believe that would have been point eight on that Tuesday, 8 March. The proposal, which is submitted by both opposition and government Members, has been in the House since February last year, has been firmly placed several times and has never occurred in the end. It is actually caused by the obvious problems that the existing wording of the law brings in practice. Eligible persons are gradually leaving and there are cases where they will not receive financial compensation because they will die in the meantime from the submission of the application. The State, which has claimed responsibility in recent years for compensation for these cases, should certainly not be inactive against these existing law enforcement problems. Therefore, I ask the Chamber of Deputies, all colleagues across the political spectrum, to show the utmost sympathy to this request by the lawmakers for a firm inclusion as well as to the group of entitled persons. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-000-000.u23	Thank you. Mr Laudát, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose two points of the program. The first would be called the Information of Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on the case of electronic toll collection after 31. 12. 2016 and the second point would be entitled Information of Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on the EIA case, the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. I propose that these points be included firmly in the order as I have read them in a row, today as the first and second points of the House following the approval of the programme, alternatively tomorrow, as I read them in a row, at 14.30 and subsequently, and alternatively next Tuesday the first and second points after the approval of the programme, and alternatively, i.e. 8 March, alternatively 9 March at 14.30 as a first and second point. [[14.30 hours]] I ask that these alternatives be voted on individually, because I do not know when the Prime Minister will have time and space to comment on these very scandalous matters. Short justification for point number one relating to electronic tolls. On January 28th of this year, we voted for the coalition parties to convene an extraordinary meeting. The Coalition did not allow negotiations or approved the agenda for this meeting, so it ended with only a few priority rights. This is a very serious problem, because at present, the preparation of an open, technologically neutral tender, as the government decided in the first half of last year, is at a point zero and more and more and more with the advancing weeks and months there is only one option - very likely by gross law to break Czech legislation and extend the contract with the existing toll operator. This is not conformary both from the point of view of the Public Procurement Act and from the point of view of the Competition Act. Obviously, the government no longer knows how to deal with this big problem, which may have caused damage to a particularly large extent over several months, namely, according to last year's revenues, up to 27 million. daily. Of course, possible actions against the state, the government, the Minister of Transport, arbitration, etc. can also be expected. Moreover, the existing operator does not, according to its public statements, have any awareness of whether it has after 31. This year's 12th continued operation of the system and selection of myth or not. I believe that the government has seriously erred in this way because the issue of electronic tolls has been repeatedly presented by the Minister of Transport. She must have seen that with every other example, the quality of the material gets worse, that it doesn't solve anything, that it actually beats the wedge out. We believe that the House should be concerned with something other than this. I note that the annual selection, which will remain on the State's accounts according to last year's data, is over 800 million, and, of course, nowhere is it written that it will be possible only for a year of non-collection of tolls. Next, I draw attention to the absolutely fundamental fact that at a time when the Czech motorways and selected sections of I. class roads would perhaps not be charged, we will become an attraction that will attract further transit truck transport without any toll costs throughout Central Europe to the Czech roads. In the case of the notorious weaknesses of our infrastructure - you can imagine technical and especially ecological impacts on our road network and the people who would be directly affected. I'm asking you very much to approve this point. [[The President draws attention to the time]] . If I could just pick up the second point right now...? [[Okay.]] Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President, you are tolerance alone. Information of Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on the case of non-negotiation of transitional provisions or exceptions in the amendment of the Public Procurement Act. The combination of any non-selection of tolls, or how to proceed with the toll after this year's New Year's Eve, and this matter, which falls entirely on the head of the Minister of Environment Richard Brabec, has come to the situation that, in my opinion, the resort of transport is in the worst condition ever, in the worst crisis since its establishment. We have repeatedly warned the Minister or his deputy at the Economic Committee that it is absolutely necessary to negotiate an exemption with the European Union at almost any cost so that the old documentation, or previously prepared documentation, can be used in the public consultation of transport buildings in particular. Nevertheless, the highest level in Brussels, which would correspond to the importance of this issue, has not been taken into account. Until today, we have no information that the Minister of the Environment has bothered to act directly. I know he's sending his subordinates there. That's where the first Deputy Minister of Transport negotiates. The transport resort has also long been drawing attention to possible fatal impacts not only on the construction of infrastructure, but even on the entire resort of large Czech construction. However, an amendment was adopted which, in the end, can stop the construction of the most important Republic actions at state level up to 130 billion. Crowns. But what is worse, of course, this also affects all the buildings that require EIA documentation and negotiation of the whole EIA process for regional and municipal investment. I believe that there was also no such fatal problem in the environmental sector. More than 14 days ago, I intersected the Minister of the Environment. He promised some answers, even in writing. However, given that there is a 30-day deadline, I believe that this problem of the Czech Government is so acute that we should also deal with this and hear the clear steps that the Minister of the Environment will take when he finally leaves for Brussels. What the Prime Minister will do, because it is already a fatal problem for him to start there by weighing his office and negotiating his functions himself. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore urge you very urgently to have the House dealt with these two matters without delay, to put Prime Minister Sobotka in charge, because I already consider it a fatal problem for this government, and to make clear the clear steps. I would just like to remind you that we, when discussing the proposal for an unapproved emergency meeting on 28 January and subsequently were assured by the coalition's policies, welcome the opposition's helpful position on the need to negotiate the toll issue. A working group was promised to receive information at the House level. You work in such a way that even this work committee - which is a job, let's say, for two hours with clubs to appoint a representative - you didn't even do that. I believe you are gambling with income and with the development of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-000-000.u25	Thank you. There is still an application from Mr Farský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-000-000.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to include a new point in this Chamber of Deputies meeting. The following story begins on 20 June last year, when Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš put in an interview in the Journal of Law that he knows about four or five thieves in the House. It seemed to me to be quite a serious accusation towards the Chamber of Deputies, so I asked Minister Babiš and the Deputy Prime Minister if he could name them. He refused. He refused, stating that he wouldn't label them so that I wouldn't abuse his response to further attacks against him. Am I supposed to take that as a confession? Am I to see this as an accusation against the closest co-workers? I am confused, and I am curious at the same time, and I think that everyone in the Chamber of Deputies should be curious, who does not feel like a thief who does not want to be trampled on by the Chamber of Deputies as a democratic body and be questioned by this institution. [[14.40 hours]] Members were also convinced that, after the third hearing of this written interview, Minister Babiš was present at the meeting, and with his evasive response that he would not tell the House, they did not agree, which naturally leads to the expectation that the Interpelled Minister would complete his inadequate response, as the House voted on it in this way, so that it would be sufficient. Unfortunately, the answer is the same again. It has arrived to me in writing: I insist on my original answers, I will not tell you anything else. Which he no longer said to me at the time, as an Interpelling Member, but to the entire Chamber of Deputies, which he had previously described as the association in which five thieves occur. And if he's not willing or capable, it's a question of identifying, then the dirt clings to each and every one of us. And I'm not gonna take it. From this point of view, it seems to me that there were and, in fact, there are still two possible honest solutions: either to appoint these five thieves, alright, it is an option, or to apologize to the Chamber of Deputies. And since the chances of appointing these five thieves and the apologies, excuses and avoidance have been given enough, in this case, I would like to propose the inclusion of a point, following written intercessions this Thursday, called the Apology of Andrei Babiš to the Chamber of Deputies. I firmly hope that all those who still recognise and accept the minimum dignity of the Chamber of Deputies as basic democratic institutions will vote in favour of this proposal. And at a time that is very difficult and when there are repeated attacks on the democratic foundations of this state, he will not take the attack from the Deputy Prime Minister. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-000-000.u27	Thank you. I'm asking my colleague. Teak, if he's checking in. It's not like that. In that case, if there are no other applications for the agenda, we would proceed to the vote. I will call my colleagues from the lobby, and we will vote in the manner that individual proposals have been presented. First of all, we would vote on the proposal from political Gremium, which is the elimination of point 221. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 2, registered is 172, for 161, against no one, this proposal has been adopted. Now, Mr Okamura, two new points. I will ask the Member if he wishes to vote separately. That's right. So first, a new point, the announcement of a referendum on the Czech Republic's withdrawal from the European Union as the first point of today's House meeting. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 3, registered is 173, for 44, against 111. This proposal has not been adopted. We would therefore vote that the procedure of the Czech Republic in the case of the arrested Czech citizen Petr Jašek in Islamic Sudan will be proposed as the first point of today's negotiations because the first proposal failed. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number four. Registered 173, 63, versus 69. The motion was not accepted. Mrs Havlová wishes to include a new point, namely the Information of the Minister of Industry and Trade on the illegal payment of aid to the OZ for 14.30 minutes tomorrow. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 5. Registered 173, 43, 83. The motion was not accepted. Vice-President Filip wishes to include a new item in the news block as the first item in the news block, namely the Information of the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice on the number and state of the investigation of crimes related to privatisation and of which registered debts on outstanding state assets. Is that correct? Yes. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 6. Registered 173, for 49, versus 59. The motion was not accepted. Mr Černoch wishes to include a new point, as the first point on Wednesday, that is, tomorrow, the Information of the Minister of Industry and Trade on the new tariff structure of electricity. Can it be that way? Yes. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 7. Registered 173, for 74, against 58. The motion was not accepted. President Mihola wants to press 489, which is support for research, to include on Tuesday 8. 3. as the first point, i.e. before the fixed points. Isn't that right? Yes. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote is number 8. There's 173 registered, 163 against no one. This proposal was adopted. Mr Lank, paragraph 112, which is a proposal for a referendum on immigration quotas, wishes to place it on a fixed basis today, with the fact that we do not have a completely fixed item today. There's only an agreement that there'll be a block of second reading, so I'd see it as the first point if you agree to it. So who agrees to point 112 be the first point today, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 9. Registered 173, for 46, against 92. The motion was not accepted. Mr Ondráček wishes to place the print 238 firmly on Thursday the third at eleven o'clock. [[Votes from the diaper, in particular Mr Faltynek, add something.]] I see. So not for 11 hours, but it would be after paragraph 217. That means the fifth point after the written interpelations. Is that okay with that? My colleague Filip tells me that this concerns executors, paragraph 77. Then I'll be patient, I'll find it. Yes, it's an execution order. No, it is Mr Ondráček's parliamentary proposal. If everything's clear, we'll vote. Initiating vote. I'm asking who agrees. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 10. It's logged in 174, for 132, against 29. This proposal was adopted. [[14.50 hours]] Mr Vilímec wishes point 90, press 403, which is the amendment to Act 212 on the mitigation of property injustices, to include on 8. 3. At this stage, then... [[The President looks at his notes and calendars.]] No, that's Tuesday, so it would be like the first point after the fixed points, so I'd see it as the seventh point. Is that okay with that? [[Yes.]] So it would be after point 18. Okay. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 11, registered is 174, for 138, against 1. This proposal was adopted. Mr Laudát has proposed two new points in four alternatives. I'm going to ask if I can think of it as four votes on the file, one and the other points. [[Yes.]] Don't you want to vote on each point separately? [[No.]] Excellent. The first point is the Prime Minister's information on the myth selection case after 31. 12. 2016 and the second point is the Information of the Prime Minister on the EIA case. The first proposed inclusion is the first and second points for today. I'm opening the vote and asking who agrees. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 12, registered is 174, for 78, against 74. The motion was not accepted. Second alternative tomorrow at 2:30 p.m., first and second point in the afternoon. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 13, registered is 174, for 81, against 70. The motion was not accepted. Third alternative 8. 3. First and second points. I'm opening the vote and asking who agrees. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 14, registered is 174, for 74, against 61. This proposal has not been adopted. And the last alternative is 9. 3:00 p.m., 30 minutes. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 15, registered is 174, for 79, versus 66. This proposal has not been adopted. The last proposal is the proposal by Mr Farský, who wants to include the Apology of Andrej Babiš to the Chamber of Deputies on Thursday at 11 o'clock, i.e. in front of all the fixed points. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 16, registered is 173, for 80, versus 58. This proposal has not been adopted. I will ask whether all the proposals that have been made here have been voted on. [[Yes.]] Doesn't anyone object? [[He doesn't.]] Excellent. We will vote on the entire proposal for a 42nd meeting, as tabled in writing and amended by the approved amendments. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the draft show to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's vote number 17, logged in 174, for 144, against no one. This proposal has been adopted and I therefore note that we have approved the 42nd session. That's why we're going to proceed to the point.
