ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-003-069.u1	69. Government bill amending Act No. 311/2006 Coll., on fuel and petrol stations and amending certain related laws (the Fuel Act), as amended, and Act No. 91/2011 Coll., amending Act No. 311/2006 Coll., on fuel and petrol stations and amending certain related laws (the Fuel Act), as amended, and Act No. 86/2002 Coll., on air protection and amending certain other laws (the Act on Air Protection), as amended, as amended by Act No. 201/2012 Sb. House printing 861/ - first reading The Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek will present the proposal on behalf of the Government. Please, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-003-069.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the main reason for submitting the proposed legislation is the transposition of Directive 2014/94/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on the introduction of infrastructure for alternative fuels into the Czech legal system. This draft law has been developed in the framework of the implementation of the Government's legislative work plan for 2016 and introduces relevant definitions and obligations relating to the creation of infrastructure for alternative fuels which are not yet sufficiently enshrined in national legislation. The new draft law contains the definition of electricity in road transport which has not yet been legally regulated, including charging stations for electric vehicles and the different types of such stations. The trade itself is currently only regulated in the Energy Act. The draft law also lays down the relevant obligations for charging station operators. It introduces, in accordance with the Directive and the National Action Plan Net mobility, the relevant registration of charging stations, as other service stations of alternative fuel infrastructure on which it is sold e.g. compressed natural gas, liquefied natural gas and liquefied petroleum gas are already registered and published by the MIT, on the basis of Section 6 of the Fuel Act. In addition to the obligations which are the implementation of the parts of Directive 2014/44/EU, the draft law regulates and specifies certain existing provisions. It is now established that the fuel distributor and the service station operator may purchase fuel from a person who holds a valid gas trade licence in respect of the purchase of compressed natural gas. Furthermore, it is a modification consisting in specifying the definition of a service station. In addition, there is a one-year reduction in the deadline until which service station operators are required to comply with at least half of their sales network of petrol containing up to 5% of the bio-component. The draft law was discussed in a standard way before the Government's approval with consultations of the relevant business entities and their professional associations and, in accordance with its resolution number 578, the PS CR is presented for discussion with the fact that its content concerns the Czech Republic's membership in the EU. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-003-069.u3	Thank you, Minister. And now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Martin Kolovratník. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-003-069.u4	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, good morning. As rapporteur, who will work with this law here in plenary and in the guarantee economic committee, I will add a few information which was now submitted by the representative of the petitioner, Minister of Industry Mládek. It is therefore a draft amendment to Act No. 311/2006 Sb. In order not to repeat the Minister's words, I will merely sum up quickly that the existing legislation of this law, which deals with fuel and fuel pumping stations, lists the various types of fuel to which it affects in a taxative way, but electricity, i.e. the new alternative ways and alternative drives, has not yet been included. As has been said, this amendment is not directly an activity of the Czech Republic. This is a mandatory transposition of Directive No 1 of the European Parliament and of the Council. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And just as far as electricity and electromobility are concerned, the amendment submitted by the government is beginning to define it precisely, alternative fuels, publicly accessible charging stations, high-performance stations, electric vehicles, etc. That means the law is beginning to name these matters and define them precisely. As rapporteur, I can update the provisional timetable of this law in the House. We will have it at this stage after the first reading next week on the Economic Committee, where we expect the first - I am now addressing my colleagues from the Economic Committee - only the first setting of a timetable for submitting any amendments before the second reading, and I therefore expect a further meeting which should take place sometime at the turn of October - November would be held before the second reading of that particular discussion within the Economic Committee. In the last sentence, perhaps as rapporteur, I can inform both the petitioners and your colleagues that I have already been approached by representatives of the professional public of some associations from this area, namely fuel, with proposals for further amendments, or with inspiration for further amendments. As rapporteur, in agreement with the Ministry, I would like to hold on to the merit of the amendment, so that we do not go into matters that are not now being proposed, so that we do not open other issues and unnecessarily complicate the transposition. On the other hand, I personally want to report for myself, and I may be able to do this speech and not during the debate, you will not be angry with me, calling on the fact that this spring we took a business trip with the Economic Committee to the United States, where, among other things, we discussed e.g. and representatives of Tesla Motors. Interesting information came about in the context that European car manufacturers are putting quite a lot of pressure on Brussels and Europe as regards the specification of the individual stands, as are the so-called. Chargers are meant to look, and it should certainly be our goal to keep the market open and open it really to all manufacturers and suppliers so that the competition is fair. So, as rapporteur for myself, I am sure that I would like to discuss this issue with colleagues, with representatives of the Ministry of Transport and, of course, find a consensus so that any additional proposals can be dealt with positively by the Ministry. So much for an introduction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-003-069.u5	I thank and open a general debate in which I record Mr Kudela's application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-003-069.u6	Hello, Madam President. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure you've encountered the problem that you were at the gas station and didn't know which gun to take in your hand because you didn't know the names of fuel in the flood. I personally have the problem, and that's why I keep going to this gas station where I know which gun to take into my hand. And just this maybe the disorder in the market of the amendment of the law that we are discussing right now removes that, for example. unifies the names used for individual media. We are still talking about alternative fuel sources for the automotive industry. And this amendment also addresses alternative fuel sources, e.g. even by warning the driver - if you are pumping CNG or any other propulsion medium, you can save or drive for other money while saving the environment. So I highly recommend you send this House press to the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-003-069.u7	I thank and ask if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. I ask the plaintiff if he is interested in the final word. That's right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-003-069.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I only have to respond briefly to the rapporteur. Of course, we are interested in avoiding unnecessary barriers if electric cars are imported from the United States. But I point out, it must be mutual. And that's why negotiations on the TTIP contract are so complicated. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-003-069.u9	I thank and ask the rapporteur whether he is interested in the final word. It's not like that. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. [[9.40 hours]] So I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 237, 139 registered, 106, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? It's not like that. Therefore, at this point, I am ending the first reading of this bill and ending the discussion of paragraph 69. We will now proceed to discuss item number
