ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, Minister, I am opening the third day of the 49th session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. I beg you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's applying for a replacement card. All I have so far is information that Mr Tejc votes with card number 8. I would like to inform you that the absence of a Member of Parliament at the hearing has been requested by these Members and Members of the Government: Mr Adamec without giving any reason, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová within half a third - working grounds, Mrs Balaštíková - Bezecný Maxová, Vice-President Bartošek from the afternoon meeting - Nováková Putnová, Mrs Komárek Rujbrová from 11 a.m. - foreign travel, Mr Běhounek - working Zemánek, Mr Benešík - working Josef, Mrs Berdychová - working grounds, Mr Urban - working Němcová, Mr Šrámek - working grounds, Mrs Dobešová - travel abroad, Mr Farský - foreign travel, Mr Radim Fiala - working grounds, for family reasons, then for working reasons, Mr Fiedler - personal reasons, Mrs Hnyková from 12 a.m.m. - working grounds, Mrs Chalánková - personal Zlatuška, Mr Skalický - new Pleticha - working ground, Mrs Mrs Marka, Marková. Deputy Prime Minister Bělobrádek apologizes from the members of the government - working reasons, Minister Brabec until 11.30 - working reasons, Minister Jurečka - working reasons, Minister Marksová by 11.00 - working reasons, Minister Němeček - 14.30 to 17.00, working reasons, Minister Pelikán by 14.30 - working reasons, Minister Stropnickýý - foreign travel, Minister Ťok from the morning meeting - working reasons, Minister Valachová - working reasons and Minister Zaorálek also working reasons. So many apologies. Today's meeting will begin at paragraph 259, which are the answers of the members of the government to written interpelations. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that by 11 p.m. at the latest it is possible to submit applications for oral interpelations and by 11.30 p.m. their lottery draw will take place. Mr Uhlík votes with card number 10. So I'm opening a point.
