ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-012-044.u1	44. Government bill amending Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on assistance in material distress, as amended /house print 783/ - first reading I ask, under the authority of the Government, that the proposal put forward by Mrs Michaela Marksová, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-012-044.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Members, this proposed bill primarily responds to the somewhat problematic part of the provision in Section 33 paragraph. 6 a law on aid in material distress, which relates to the so much discussed conditions of approval of the municipality in the case of the assessment of the entitlement to the housing supplement by the applicant who lives in the hostel. I merely recall that the regulation, which has been effectively effective since May 2015, has been adopted here on the basis of a parliamentary proposal and actually creates a situation where the decision on individual individual right to material security, which is carried out by the authorities in material distress in the performance of the state administration through the employment offices, is subject to the approval of the municipality in the exercise of its separate powers. As much as we understand why this came about, the way in which the parliamentary amendment was written, this is causing fundamental application problems in the area of administrative law and has also raised justified concerns about the possible contradiction of this amendment with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. From the point of view of practical use, it is long-term unsustainable because there are also no criteria for granting or not giving consent to the payment of the surcharge. The procedure for the protection of personal data is not regulated, etc. That is why I have prepared a proposal for an amendment to this law. I did not agree to address this by simply proposing the removal of this problematic consent of the municipality, but we went the way of proposing a set of measures that respond to the issue of housing people in these substandard housing forms, such as hostels in the municipality's cadastral area, including a closer definition of the conditions for recognition in a case worthy of special consideration. This means that we have, in fact, taken the parliamentary proposal and made it more precise in some way, so that the rules are clear and consistent with constitutional order. This proposed legislation is intended to take effect on the first day of the second calendar month following its publication in the Collection of Laws, which should ensure sufficient legisvacancy. I repeat that this regulation is also conducted by trying not only to make it easier for municipalities and to prevent such entrepreneurs in quotation marks from moving and moving socially weak groups across the Republic, without even being able to say anything about it, but at the same time the other side of the effort is being led by people living in social exclusion so that we can better socialise them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-012-044.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Now the rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Miroslava Strnadlová, who is unfortunately excused, should have taken the floor. The designated rapporteur may be represented by Mrs Pavlína Nytrová, but we will vote on the amendment of the rapporteur at first reading. I'll check you all out, please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the amendment of the rapporteur to Mrs Pavlína Nytrová. I am opening the vote on the amendment of the rapporteur. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 258; 88 Members and Members have signed up, for 86, against none, the proposal has been accepted. I ask the rapporteur to take the floor. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-012-044.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the Government's bill amending Act No. 111/2006 Coll. on aid in material distress. The aim of this amendment, as has already been said, is to specify the conditions for entitlement to benefits in material distress. The MPSV Resort administers two benefits, namely the contribution to housing in the state social support system and the supplement to housing in the system of assistance in material distress. The government bill we are talking about today concerns the housing supplement. This benefit should help beneficiaries to cover part of the cost of living or, where appropriate, to cover the cost of living. where justified, the full cost of adequate standard housing. The aim is for beneficiaries of this benefit to maintain standard housing because the loss of standard housing leads to a risk of social exclusion. As regards people who use so-called form of substandard housing, i.e. living in a non-residential area, a hostel, a part of the apartment, so these persons are not legally entitled and the benefit is granted only in emergency situations, in so-called cases of special consideration. However, the law does not specify a case worthy of serious consideration and this leads to application difficulties. The applicant does not have legal certainty when asking for a benefit whether or not his case will be assessed as worthy of serious consideration. [[14.40 hours]] Another problem to be settled is the contradiction in the justification of standard and substandard housing costs. This is the maximum amount of justified costs for standard and substandard housing. It should not be that the form of substandard housing should be higher or possibly identical to that of standard housing, both with regard to the fulfilment of the principle of social justice and the need for social reconciliation, where one group cannot be supported at the expense of other groups. Originally, a condition for the approval of the municipality was introduced into the law on the basis of which the benefit in the substandard housing was granted. However, this adjustment has proved to be very problematic and legally inaccurate. As these causes have become unsustainable in the long term, the Ministry of Finance has prepared a proposal for an amendment to this Act, the content of which is to set criteria for assessing cases worthy of consideration, that is to say to determine the conditions under which the housing supplement may be granted to persons in a substandard housing form. To specify the procedure to be supported by the recipient of the benefit in a substandard housing form to obtain standard housing. Further deepen cooperation between the Labour Office and the authorities of the municipalities in assessing the so-called cases of appropriate special consideration for the housing supplement and at the same time in managing and supporting the beneficiary of the benefit to address its housing situation. Finally, the determination of the maximum eligible cost of housing in substandard housing forms is in such a way that it is proportionate to the nature of the area in terms of its technical design and reflects the balanced support of all groups of beneficiaries of batch aid. The proposed amendment gives people using a substandard housing form greater legal certainty on what conditions they can obtain and retain their right to a housing supplement. The employment offices have a fixed obligation to request the competent municipal authority to provide supporting documents for the evaluation of a case worthy of special consideration. The municipal authority shall have a new possibility to provide the employment office with information on the applicant for a benefit within 20 calendar days which it considers relevant for the evaluation of the benefit. The information provided will then have to be dealt with by the competent labour office. The amendment now introduces a so-called incentive plan that sets out activities aimed at finding adequate housing. This plan should make the procedure for finding standard housing more effective for beneficiaries of a benefit considered to be a case worthy of special consideration. The aim is to ensure that a person who is entitled to a housing supplement is obliged to seek adequate housing. The amendment contains a partial adjustment of the relevant period for determining justified housing costs in such a way that these costs are assessed for the current month. Furthermore, the amendment contains several legislative technical adaptations. Budget is a neutral amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-012-044.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate. Before I give my word to my colleague Adamová, there's another small renonc. Mr. President of the Election Commission, please. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-012-044.u6	Thank you for the floor. I apologize to the Minister and colleague Markéta Adamová, and I will explain immediately. My apology and correction goes back to the polls. I misinformed you, colleagues and colleagues. She's more of a formality, but to make sure the tape is okay. I mistakenly informed about which of the candidates was appointed, respectively. takes up its duties. So I'm setting the record straight. A newly elected member of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council who has not been elected here today, but is appointed to his post as Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Prime Minister, and vice versa, a member of the College of the Supreme Audit Office will take up his duties as President of the Chamber of Deputies. So just a formal correction for the steno recording of this meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-012-044.u7	I thank the President and now in the general debate, Mrs Markéta Adamová is the first to sign up. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-012-044.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a few comments on the amendment to the Act on Material Need, which are actually based on the practice of these benefits, which are dealt with by this amendment or by this law. In this respect, I would have a few questions and comments on whether the law is even worth amending again, at least in this parliamentary term it is a number of amendments. I do not deny that it is a big issue with regard to housing and aid benefits that are currently directed towards people who are dependent on State aid or aid to society, and since it has been spent at least 20 billion in the past year. CZK only to this area, so it is necessary to thoroughly map this area, address it and try to improve it. However, this amendment does not, in my view, bring much improvement. With regard to the motivational plan mentioned by the rapporteur here, I believe that such a matter is completely unnecessary to address directly by the amendment, and that if we want to improve our work with the recipients of social benefits, we can do so without changing the law, and if those who decide on the benefits of aid in material distress, which are officials and officials of the office of employment, start to comply with the rules that have long been applied in this work, and they really start going out in the field, for which their numbers are constantly increasing. In fact, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has long been crying over how many officials and officials are assigned to this work and has long asked for an increase in their number, which has been heard. Hundreds of new officials are already working at the employment offices, but the effectiveness of these human resources so far is slim, and it cannot be said that it would be reflected in the particular housing charges paid. Which is the big problem, because they often go into the hands of those who shouldn't be entitled to them, or they're actually with these means. business. We all know the concept of poverty business. Therefore, I would like to ask whether the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs did not rather consider that instead of preparing a novel, it would be much faster, because this would be a much faster procedure, introducing new procedures for the work of the labour authorities, that is, new procedures directly for those officials, or in some way better to check whether there is really a consistent control of the person to whom the contributions will be provided. To whom the housing supplement will be provided and whether it goes into standard housing forms or substandard housing forms. Furthermore, I think it is odd to blame everything or blame the change that occurred at the last amendment, when greater authority is given to municipalities, and that in this regard it would be wrong to believe that merely releasing this particular paragraph from the law will help to improve the situation significantly. On the contrary, I think that municipalities should be involved and should have an interest in ensuring that other excluded localities or new excluded localities do not arise in their communities, as they often do, and that, unfortunately, is the reason for which the housing supplement, as it is designed, often helps. And the last question, or rather, the point is that we now have two housing benefits, as we have also heard from the rapporteur here. I think that many problems would be avoided if we had the doses united. I know that this is being considered in the context of the social housing law, that it is actually a proposal that is related to it. However, given the evolution of the social housing law, it seems that it will be difficult to adopt in this parliamentary term, and I do not wish to do so, but I would like to support this change which is related to it, so I would like to ask if the MPSV is not thinking in this direction, that it would therefore unite these two specific housing benefits and actually address their payment in this way so that the applicants are not dependent on two different sources, and therefore two different assessment systems. So much for this novel. I think she really is quite redundant in this case. The changes that are offered there can be dealt with in a simpler way, which would be much faster. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-012-044.u9	Thank you, Mrs Adamová. Another duly registered member is Mr Vilímec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-012-044.u10	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will follow up on Mrs Adamová. It is a large amendment to the law on aid in material distress and addresses the question of so-called. substandard type or forms of housing, these are the hostels, and defines so called. cases worthy of special consideration. Until now, these cases have not been defined by law. The current wording of the amendment to the Act on Assistance in Material Need implies the approval of the municipality. That's what the Secretary of State has been talking about here with the admission of a non-interest housing supplement to substandard housing forms. Yes, the proposal fell here in the Chamber of Deputies. I think Zbyněk Stanjura served it, if I remember correctly. I don't want to assess whether the adjustment is problematic, whether it is constitutionally conformal or unconformable, as the explanatory report claims. In any case, without this regulation or without this legislative regulation, local knowledge and the legitimate requirement of municipalities to express themselves from the point of view of local optics, local knowledge would not be taken into account at all. I think at least something changed with the proposal. However, I have to say that even the current regulation, even though it is not understood by the Ministry, and it was not from the outset, should be strictly observed, and this has not been done in many cases and does not happen. The disapproval of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, I believe, cannot be dealt with by another ministry, especially when the opinion of the Ministry of the Interior has changed several times. Okay. The government is now coming up with another concept where it sets out the conditions for assessing cases worthy of special consideration. However, it is really a question of whether the conditions for assessing who is connected with that or that municipality can be laid down by legislation. The Department of Labour and Social Affairs tried. However, this will not be possible without interaction with the municipalities. After all, the novel is counting on it. The new concept therefore obliges the Labour Office to request the provision of supporting documents for this assessment by the municipal authorities in the context of the delegated powers. Of course, the municipal authorities responsible, these are the municipalities called. the second type, they will have to contact individual municipalities anyway and find the data required by the Labour Office under this Act. I would also like to mention that for the authorities responsible it may be a rather time-consuming agenda where there are more hostels on that territory. We should not forget that either. So be it. It is rather a formal matter, and here I refer to Mrs Adamová, but I consider the production of so-called. an incentive plan to seek or contribute to finding adequate housing. This is another plan that social workers with beneficiaries will have to draw up. After all, if for example. is produced by the so-called an individual action plan under the Employment Agenda, as well as some other intervention plans are being developed in the context of social work. I fear that this will only be a formality, and there will be no further demands for new jobs in the institutions of aid in material distress. The government bill, which has not been mentioned much here, also reduces the maximum possible counted limit of justified housing costs for substandard housing forms by 10%. Ninety to eighty percent. Here, when I saw the different variations, I think the proposal might be more daring after all. We, if I speak for our faction, for the ODS MP, will not vote against the referral of this bill to second reading, but at second reading we want to very responsiblely assess the adequacy of some of the provisions of this amendment both from the point of view of ensuring so-called. local knowledge, as well as an assessment of the reduction of the calculated threshold of justified costs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-012-044.u11	I thank Mr Vilímc. Another duly signed up is Mrs Hana Aulická. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-012-044.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed amendment to the Law on Material Needs focuses primarily on the provision of a supplement for housing. Its size and increasing amount is increasingly being criticised not only by politicians but also by our citizens. Therefore, we welcome the efforts of the MPSV not to abuse this social benefit to such a large extent as it is still quite common practice after the previous partial adjustments. Nevertheless, I would very much like to get some additional information from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which is based on practice. The proposed regulation addresses applicants who move from parents to substandard housing forms only so that they do not have to be assessed with their parents. Experience shows that isolation also takes place in the standard form of housing. How does the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs approach the possibility of extending this adjustment to the standard housing form, in order to avoid the fact that a person who is alone begins to draw additional benefits from the system of non-insurable social benefits? I have to say, Bridge and Lom are definitely familiar with this area. Furthermore, the proposed adjustment envisages the amount that is normal at the site. Here the practice calls for the possibility to set this amount at a flat rate according to the number of persons in the apartment unit and the size of the apartment, as well as the backup of electricity and gas is set. Just for example: In Most it is quite common that the contract rent is CZK 15,000, and the landlords are catching up with this amount on services, one service that is not under construction yet. It's water, or water, and it's coiled. Labour authorities do not dare individually determine the adequate or average amount of consumption that they could hold to when granting entitlement to housing supplements. And allow me a few more responses to my colleague Adamová. I must say that I will say a few views from practice as regards the number of employees of the employment office. What's the reality? Among these employees is mainly large fluctuations. There are less than seven people in the Most for material distress. In Litvínov minus two people. Let's face it, for what reason. Net salaries, net wages of CZK 11,000. And I'll turn it around. A family of four who depend on social benefits - 25 to 27,000. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-012-044.u13	Thank you, ma'am. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no such person, I will end the general debate. I am asking the appellant's final words, or the rapporteur's. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-012-044.u14	Thank you for the floor. At least I would like to respond briefly to some of the things that have been said here. As for what Mrs Adamová said. I would therefore like to remind those of us who still have a memory, as well, that it was former Minister Drábek of the TOP 09, who made absolutely senseless transfer of the agenda of the payment of material benefits from the municipalities to the employment offices, reduced the number of officials and officials working on it and made it impossible but incredible chaos, which made it impossible for several years to control the payment of benefits effectively. When I joined the government in January 2014, we were in a situation where hundreds of officials really had to come back, because otherwise the chances of these people paying it at the same time, but at the same time they're controlling the legitimacy, that means they're going to look at the people they're paying it to, the place where they're paying it, so it wasn't possible without taking that number. And today, say the name Drábek in front of someone who was working at the employment office at the time. Those people had him somewhere like a real dart target. These people totally hated him, and I'm not even talking about the situation that was caused by the chaos in IT. That's the thing that is actually related to it, because it was also about the payout of benefits that our officials and clerks paid with a pencil and paper. [[15.00 hours]] To be able to effectively control these people, we need them. But it's not like you're gonna pick this guy up and he's gonna go like this and he's got it all. There they simply have to learn it and (b) these people have a starting salary of about 14 to 15,000, and we are there in this situation where unemployment is low or nobody wants to do it because it is an extremely demanding agenda. If you don't pay off that dose, those people are just yelling at you. We have verbal assaults in lighter cases, but we also register physical assaults. So we need these people, we need a lot of them, and we need to pay them a lot better, too, if it's gonna work the way it's supposed to work. Or maybe not, or there'll just be a few, but then we'll pay slowly to whoever comes and we don't have a chance to control it. It's either a few people and we don't control, or enough people paid quite well, and then we can control. Either it doesn't matter or it doesn't matter. I can't do both. As for the question of unification of the two benefits, again - we inherited the system that was under the two previous right-wing governments. The two benefits are justified precisely because the one is in the residential hotels, which was therefore considered to be non-standard forms of housing, which should be temporary. By the way, the hostel business has also started over the eight years of those in the quotation marks of right-wing governments. I think we should remember that, too. And again, we've inherited it now, we're trying to do something about it, and it's gonna take a few years to fix it. For several years, these people have been moving into those ghettos, which is mainly carried away by our regions of Ústí, Moravian-Silesian and Karlovy Vary. As far as costs are concerned that we are proposing a reduction of only 80 per cent, it was a sort of compromise between when part of the opinions said that if we cut to 80 per cent, the providers of the residential hotels would throw people out on the street, but then there are other opinions that it should be much lower, that it should be 50 per cent. So we chose the golden middle road in between. I must say, I warned those who said we shouldn't even propose a reduction. I said it would come to the Chamber of Deputies and it would be a lot lower and you can be glad it's 80 percent there. With regard to costs, we have tables, we can anonymously pull out Mostek, how much and how much is paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-012-044.u15	Thank you, Minister. Now with priority rights Vice-President of the TOP 09 and starosta Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-012-044.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly respond to the Minister's words. I would like to say that the Minister has been making excuses for three years about what previous governments have been doing here. The Minister did not come up with any comprehensive concept, only with minor amendments to individual laws. I must say that there is no way I can accept the position that, as a young schoolboy, ministers here will be making excuses for what the previous governments did. Unfortunately, where there is no vision, where there is no view of the future, where there is no solution, only excuses come in. Madam Secretary here mentioned two things that nobody wants to work at the employment offices and that the employees at the employment offices have a low salary. Come on, Madam Secretary, I'd like to ask you who's responsible. Not Minister Drábek, who hasn't been there in four years? The responsibility falls only on your shoulders. That means that nobody wants to work there and that they have low salaries is your managerial failure, Madam Secretary. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the payment of benefits is constantly increasing. I want to ask how it is possible that benefits are constantly rising at a time of economic growth. I read hundreds and hundreds of job offers, and this is confirmed by people from the Ústí Region, that it is not possible to find employees for vacant jobs in industrial enterprises. Employers are literally asking for unqualified employees as well as qualified employees. And yet, benefits are rising. This is your responsibility, Madam Secretary, and the inability of officials to control those who receive benefits and to actually selectively pay only those who really need benefits. Not to those who abuse them and just sit on the couch at home watching soap operas. This is a matter that falls entirely on the shoulders of Mrs Marksová' Labor Secretary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-01-ps2013-047-06-012-044.u17	I am very sorry, Mr Vice-President. I beg you, according to the court of law, to ask for priority rights next time only if the President of the House of Deputies is excused, which was not in this case. I apologize to my colleagues. I had no idea. We're out of the debate. Madam Secretary said the final word. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. I am opening the vote on the commandment of the Social Policy Committee as a guarantee committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the number 259 vote, 130 Members and Members signed up, for 114, against none. I note that the proposal was directed to the Social Policy Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to other committees. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? It's not like that. There was no proposal to shorten or extend the deadline. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee, and I end the first reading of the bill. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is:
