ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-011-031.u1	31. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on Liability for Misdemeanors and Procedure and the Act on Certain Infractions /Departmental Press 929/ - First Reading I will therefore ask the Minister of the Interior to stay at the rapporteur's table and ask Mr Lukáš Pleticha, who is rapporteur for this point, to come to the rapporteur's table. Under the authority of the Government, the proposal will be made, as I have already said, by the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-011-031.u2	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to mention the Government's bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on Liability and Procedure for Infractions and the Act on Certain Infractions. The bill makes changes in about 250 different laws. Their necessity is triggered by the acquisition of the Act on Liability and Procedure for Infractions and the Act on Certain Infractions. Both laws will come into force on 1 July 2017. The law referred to will therefore take effect on the same day. In particular, the draft law contains the transfer of the vast majority of the substance of the offences from the existing Act on offenses, which will be annulled by the Act on Liability for and Procedure for offenses, into laws containing the legal regulation of obligations whose infringement is a sign of the transferred offences. In this context, it is proposed to adjust the jurisdiction to issue an order on the spot in the laws to which these offences will be transferred. It is also proposed to remove undesirable deviations and unnecessary duplications from the new legislation, to replace the concept of administrative offense by the concept of offenses and to transfer further terminology based on the newly adopted law. The draft law also regulates the mode of delivery in state proceedings by the so-called hybrid mail. The hybrid mail service should be provided by public authorities' contact points within the meaning of the Public Administration Information Systems Act. The relationship between the public authority as the sender of the document and the public administration contact point will be established by the so-called public contract. The proposed amendment aims to create conditions for making documents sent by public authorities more effective, which will be able to use a single channel for sending documents, whether electronic or to be printed, and at the same time create space for saving public funds. This proposal is in line with the trend of modernisation and the trend of strengthening eGovernment services. The draft law also contains amendments to the Administrative Code and to the Rules of Procedure relating to the handling of classified information. This adjustment is the completion of a government task aimed at adjusting the handling of classified information in particular with regard to the protection of information resources of the Police of the Czech Republic and the intelligence services of the Czech Republic, whose outputs serve as a basis for issuing administrative or judicial decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-011-031.u3	I thank the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanc and ask for the rapporteur's report for the first reading of Mr Lukáš Pleticha. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-011-031.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to the next reorganisation part of the two laws that we adopted here in the spring of this year, namely Act No. 250/2016 Sb. and Act No. 251/2016 Sb. I don't think I'm gonna be able to talk about this whole thing because, as far as I'm concerned, this law applies to about forty areas of misdemeanor, and we'd be here for a long time, so I'm not gonna hold up any longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-011-031.u5	I thank the rapporteur for his intelligence report. And before I open the debate, I'm going to ask my colleagues from the government to secure the presence of one of the ministers. I know that my colleague, Minister Milan Chovanec, has just gone to the bathroom, we all have to run away sometime, because he's been here the whole time at the previous point. However, I would still like to see one of the government officials present to comply with the Rules of Procedure. I beg your pardon before I give my colleague Benda the floor. [[He waits a few seconds, then Minister Chovanec comes in and explains something.]] Minister, we have duly excused you. Of course, we expected one of your colleagues to have your back here. Mr Marek Benda, who has taken with him a significant number of documents, has spoken.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-011-031.u6	Mr Vice-President, Minister, honourable Members, honourable Members, I am not scaring you. What I brought is a bill that we're discussing now. There's no extra paper. There's no extra paper! This is just Government Bill 929, which amends some laws in connection with the adoption of the Criminal Code. I just brought it here to show us how incredible the Ministry of the Interior did theoretically, but how I think it was fatally, but it was a fatal waste of an opportunity to do something about it. What is contained here is really just a change - in every law, an administrative offense is being changed for a misdemeanor. That's about 150 of the 250 amendment laws. We could really have done that in the law that we took offenses on. Telling where the right offense is written turns into a misdemeanor. We would have saved two thirds of this material. Suppose it's not printed 200 times for the House, but I think it'll be printed about 20 times at least for the Constitutional Legal Committee. Try to imagine how much it costs and how many times it had to be printed on the government. That's like the first part of the problem. Then there are some changes in rates. Then there's the transfer of offenses from the original criminal law, which, as it was adopted in 1990, contained some offenses that haven't yet been transferred to those special laws, and because they're canceled, it's an attempt to convert them into those special laws. This is another part of the changes that, perhaps, could still be understood. Then the explanatory memorandum admits that in some cases rates for certain offences are changing. But I assure you, it's always worse. I didn't find the only rate that would go down. There are several rates, and again I don't have to study it to the last row because it's really quite extensive printing, but in some cases rates are increasing. It's not quite clear why. In my opinion, as the various ministries remembered and tried to lobby: here we would like it, that perhaps it would be worthwhile for the rate to be higher. What does the explanatory report itself admit, and what seems to me the most terrifying in terms of our work? The reason report says: The facts of the offences and other administrative offences are fragmented in about 250 different laws, which are in the gesture of one of the central administrative offices. The petitioner from the sources available to him found that in these laws there are about 2,200 factual elements of offences and 5 100 factual elements of other administrative offences, which are competent for the discussion of more than 50 types of different administrative bodies carrying out public administration on all its sections, including central administrative bodies. Five thousand hundred administrative offences, two thousand two hundred actual offences! And instead of stopping by and playing with the in-house that he's writing this totally technical standard, he tried to pick up from the individual resorts and say, "Do you have to have so many?" Does there have to be so much? Is there any correlation between the facts, the rates of fines? Is there a relationship? Do we know if health is more important to us, life is more important to us, property? We have all this in criminal law. We have absolutely no administrative right at all. And here I think that, as a petitioner, the chance that it was worth, when reform of misdemeanor law was to be done, and when a new trial was being made, all the facts were really to be collected, to force individual resorts to do it, to force individual resorts to find out whether or not to trample on a flower, perhaps even unprotected, is by chance not a much higher fine than for stealing up to CZK 5,000, whether or not it was a misdemeanor, and we can take actually 5 100 misdemeanors. This didn't happen at all. He's bringing us this huge file. By the way, guidelines for all Members who have a tendency to push for elections and are concerned that they would have to do so within the framework of the ordinary legislative process, this law opens up most of the key laws in this country. So whatever you want to add, just bring and paste in the second reading. You're just gonna have to find one of the 250 parts that's involved. I am not performing to tell the Minister that I propose to reject this. There's hardly anything to deny. There we will have to go through those parts where rates are rising and say whether it is meaningful anywhere or not. But I'm performing because I feel like I'm really here inside, virtually. The government as a whole has desperately squandered the opportunity. And as I was angry here about a month ago over the electoral law, which, in turn, only dealt with complete technicalities and all the issues of the election left to be and flow, and again, let's say it was a third thick one, but again it wasn't exactly some thin material, so this material completely squandered its opportunities. And instead of really trying... To me, it seems almost unthinkable to tell citizens that the central government in the area of offenses itself does not fully know how many there are. How is that poor citizen supposed to know? And each of them should, in theory, follow them, and each of them should be theoretically prosecuted. It wouldn't be time for us to be in one place in the state, and it should be the Ministry of the Interior, and I'm sorry that this opportunity hasn't been used, said, we have so many misdemeanors why we have them, and not that every department and every official who writes down that bouquet, that health care, that law on protection against tabacism and alcoholism, that law on the protection of children's sandboxes put 150 facts into it, and, if possible, mostly ten to twelve bodies that are able to discuss it. And this is what we tell citizens that it is lawmaking, and this is what we say that they are supposed to do. It seems to me in this visibility that we really shouldn't do this, and that if we really do something, then say, let's see, let's make the five thousand offenses a maximum of five hundred. That seems even more revealing to me. It still seems possible to hang somewhere and say: you must follow this, or you will be sanctioned. The fact that no one has really worked with any comparison of rates and that the rates that it writes in the environment, agriculture, defence, interior are in a complete imbalance, and we would find out how we protect some things dramatically higher than other things, as it doesn't make any sense at all, we could still talk about it further. So I'm not suggesting rejection, I just think it's a real shame that we didn't use this law to do a little bit of order in criminal or overall administrative punishment, and instead, it's officially gone away. We're done, we've changed the administrative offense for the offense everywhere, and that's how we solved the problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-011-031.u7	I thank Mr Marek Benda. Mr Adamec is now reporting from his post. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-011-031.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I may be a little bit of a different judge, but I would say to your colleague not only to Marek, but also to others that it is an old rule that every change is always for the worse. Someone's gonna understand sooner, somebody's gonna understand later. Gentlemen certainly have experience with this from the point of view of personal coexistence sometimes. But I didn't mean to. I'm gonna say something else. [[17.50 hours]] When I see the 250 laws opening up here, my colleague Zdeněk Ondráček, from the left side of the spectrum, said so, I think that's really something we can't even read at the moment. Why do I remind you of that? Because it's become such a "good" custom here that we're discussing some kind of environmental law, and all of a sudden, after weeks, we people in practice find out that we've also been amending the municipal law, and suddenly we have a problem with a decree that concerns the peace of the night. It's an incredible thing that's been going through here. I think if we were to discuss it directly in the specific law on municipalities, there would be a big debate here, we would discuss it here, we would argue about it. There was no such thing here because none of us noticed that the laws involved were changing. I think this is a terrible practice that should end in the future, or it should somehow be adjusted, because this really isn't possible. The example I'm giving you here is written by the Deputy Minister, probably the future Governor, letters I don't understand at all how to do it at these city events, how to allow tourists not to go to sleep, when chickens go to bed, as we say, because we still follow the time behind František Josef here in the Czech boiler, because he couldn't sleep in the morning and at night he wanted to sleep again, so we all submitted to it. If you look at other countries in Europe, maybe a little bit more south, you'll find it's completely different. The incredible problems we're making. I'm really not sure that the 250 laws that are here are all right, that it will work out well. Indeed, what Mr Benda said from the point of view of opening up what we want, I am actually starting to wonder if this is also about the law on municipalities, or about any activities that I will do, because what has passed without our knowledge is really terrible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-011-031.u9	I thank Mr Adamc. Before we go any further, I'll make an apology from today's meeting. From 17.45 pm Tomio Okamura and Radim Fiala apologize, both until the end of the meeting day for working reasons. For personal reasons, she apologizes from 18 o'clock to Mrs Matušovská. Now further in the debate, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-011-031.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if you recall, on Tuesday morning I asked you here to remove this House press from this meeting, precisely for its extensiveness, as Mr Benda showed and as Mr Adamec mentioned. You know, that 1 974 pages of text read in 12 days - I don't know which one of you can do it, but I just couldn't. And out of the 250 laws contained in this amendment, I got somewhere in the first period, and then I was just running through the laws that change the amendment. I can say that I have seen many laws, but some of the laws that are mentioned here have been heard for the first time, and I do not know what I should imagine under them, let alone to be able to sufficiently expertly assess what is now mentioned in this amendment. I must take the view that Mr Marek Benda mentioned here that the difference in the approach to individual punishment for offences is very different. As far as criminal law is concerned, we have a certain social harm to individual crimes, and we also have some rates for that, so there is no such thing. And so, as mentioned, one stepped flower can cost you CZK 50,000 and other sanctions also CZK 5 million. When we look at the punishment that is under criminal law, there are no such draconian cash penalties, and sometimes it is better to do a criminal offence than just a misdemeanor or an administrative offense. I will definitely propose an extension of the deadline in a detailed debate, because if anyone has the ability to do this in 60 days, he's really a hero to me. So I'm going to propose an extension of the deadline for at least 90 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-011-031.u11	It is a good thing you said that, because, of course, the detailed debate is not at first reading, so we are taking it and the rapporteur has noted it. My colleague, Marek Benda, once again in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-011-031.u12	Thank you. I'll follow up on my previous speaker. I'm just going to ask the Minister if he will agree to extend the deadline by 30 days, because without the plaintiff's consent, it can be extended by a maximum of 20 days. Then I would suggest 20 days as an alternative proposal. [[The Minister has no objection to 30 days.]] It's not a problem to extend 30 days. Well, thank you, then. Then I have one request for the plaintiff. We may not be able to map this overall, although I think it would be useful for the government to impose this task on its ministries and central authorities: to draw up a list of offences, potential sanctions. If you can put it in a table, then you can at least find and judge it in some way. I've got it by 50,000, and I've got it by 100,000, and I've got it. I don't think anyone's gonna be able to evaluate it today. This is the kind of thing those resorts should be able to do. But that's more of a request to the government, and I know it won't be in real time to discuss this law. For us to discuss, I think it would be useful for the Ministry, as it was in the Government's draft law, to at least give us a clear list of where sanctions are changing in this bill and what reasons are there for this, because just finding where sanctions are changing is not entirely simple in the scope of this press. This would be a request that I have to the Minister before the constitutional committee hearing, so that we get a clear list of where the laws change factually, including sanctions, and where it's really just the technique of converting administrative offenses into offenses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-011-031.u13	I thank Mr Marek Benda. I'm asking who's next for the debate. If no one, I am done with the debate. I'm asking for final words. The Minister is interested. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-011-031.u14	I've only been very brief. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I have no problem with extending the deadline to 90 days. As regards the required inventory or some analysis, where it changes purely by name and where this is reflected up to the amount of the fine, we will try to ensure this before the constitutional committee is held to some extent that we will be able to secure. As far as Mr Benda's request, by your means, is concerned, from our point of view, this would be a completely new code in administrative law, which is very difficult to grasp, and in our view it would be work for several years, perhaps decades. But I understand that this might be more comfortable, but very complexly feasible in the Czech legal order. It's a total change in the view of administrative law, administrative punishment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-011-031.u15	Thank you, Minister. I'm asking the rapporteur if he's interested in the final word. It's not like that. So I'm going to sum up that there was no motion to return or refuse. We can therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone else suggest a committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. We will decide in the vote the serial number 95, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of the commandment to the constitutionally-legal committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 95, from 146 in favour of 104, against no one. The motion was accepted. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal for discussion to other committees. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to other committees to discuss? A colleague of Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-011-031.u16	In order not to provoke the chairman of the Security Committee, even if this is also a matter of protecting classified information, but suppose that the Constitutional Committee is able to control the regime of classified information in administrative proceedings and, in particular, in administrative justice, but I still think it would be useful for the Public Administration Committee to discuss the draft law. Ninety percent of this is public administration, they're municipalities. The Constitutional Committee is only a committee to guarantee legal purity, but the substantive logic should be contained by the Public Administration Committee and I recommend that it be taken to order it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-011-031.u17	Okay, okay. We will vote on the motion for a commandment from the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, in a vote of 96, which I will only begin after I have signed you all out and asked you for a new registration. Once the number of applicants has settled, we will decide on the proposal for a commandment from the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I've started the vote on order number 96 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 96 out of 106 present for 65, against 16. The motion was accepted. We now have a vote on the proposal to extend the deadline to 90 days. The petitioner for the government, the Minister of the Interior, agreed with this proposal, or it is a voteable proposal. We will decide in the vote number 97, which I have begun. I ask who is in favour of extending the deadline for committee discussions for 90 days. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 97 of 108 for 101 Members present, against 1 Member. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee of Constitutional Law as a Committee of Guarantee and has been ordered by the Committee of Public Administration and Regional Development and the time limit for the Committees is 90 days. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur, I finish point 31 and pass the proceedings on to the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-011-031.u18	Good evening, dear colleagues. Here's the good news for starters. On the basis of the agreement of the Presidents of the Clubs, we will end today at 6:45 p.m. today's meeting. The next item is:
