ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u1	2. The draft law amending Act No. 245/2000 Sb., on public holidays, on other holidays, on important days and on days of working rest, as amended /German press 450/5/ - returned by the Senate The Senate proposed a bill with an amendment. His resolution has been delivered to you as House press 450/6. I welcome Senator Jiří Čunek among us, and I ask that Mr Augustin Karel Andrle Sylor comment on the motion for a resolution of the Senate and on the amendment tabled. Please, Counselor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members, Mr Senator, I have been trying for more than a year to get to Eliška Přemyslovna, to have a significant day, and today is the last chance to achieve this. We have here an amendment that came from the Senate, which I absolutely agree with. In the original version, it was to be Eliška Přemyslovna and Karel IV, the day of the mother and son, the day of the wife and devoted offspring, who fulfilled her dream after the death of his mother, so that the Czech Kingdom would not perish, and on the contrary became historically significant. And that's what happened. My proposal was adopted by the Senate Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Human Rights and Petitions and unanimously supported and presented to the Senate plenary, where 46 of the 59 Senators present voted for Eliška. This proposal in reverse also went through the House's guarantee committee on science, education, youth, culture and physical education twice, but in the third reading of the House Eliška was eventually separated from the title. Perhaps some of you may now dream of the Day of Karel IV. and Eliška Přemyslovna as a trivial change, but it is not so. I will try to explain briefly why, knowing that in this brief speech I cannot present all its merit to the Czech state. It was Eliška Přemyslovna, an exceptional woman and the first Češka as a Czech queen who fatally influenced her son Karel with her role model. Eliška stood at the very forefront of almost all of his son's motivations, both for the selection of Bohemia as a key territory of the kingdom and for the selection of the culture to which he applied. It was Eliška Přemyslovna, who cultivated the Přemyslov history and tradition of the Czech Kingdom inherited from her grandfather Přemysl II. Otakar. Karel IV. He was a Čech, but after whom? After Eliška, of course. It was Eliška who has been the king's main inspiration throughout her life not only for the construction of magnificent Prague, but also probably for the construction of svatýVít Cathedral and for the realization of other architectural gems, which are a pillar of proud Czech statehood. This testimony was recorded for us by contemporary chroniclers, such as the author of Kronika zbraslavský Petr Žitavský, chronicler Karel IV. Jan Marignola, chronicler Beneš Krabice z Weitmile, author of Kronika czech Václav Hájek z Libočan or lyrics Příbík Přibík Pulkava Radenín. But what happened was that František Palacký, our leading historian, ignored these authors and described Eliška differently than her contemporaries. Today, this view has changed significantly and many authors who wrote about Eliška Přemyslovna over the last few years have redesigned this view of František Palacký. It is about Klára Benešovská, Božena Kopičková, Zuzana Všetečková, Petr Kubín, Jiří Spěváček, Jaroslava Černá and others. Therefore, I beg you, let us try to correct the error that I think has become a misunderstand in the House, and let us return the time of this amendment to the original intention by supporting the Senate proposal. Our nation needs role models in this hurried time. And this was the pattern and is the Czech and Polish Queen Eliška, the last of the Přemyslovec family. She carried in her heart and blood the legacy of her rulers, her grandfather King Přemysl II. Otakar, his father, Václav Vaclav II. and never embezzled from their great ends. Perhaps our history would have evolved in a very different way without her role model, which Karel deeply influenced, to the detriment of the Czech nation. Eliška proved more by her marriage and by her actions than other rulers by sword and battle. She wished to serve bůh, but she had to sacrifice herself to her country and the Czech people. Let's thank her for that. We owe her. How? Let's change the name of an important day to Karel's Day IV. and Eliška Přemyslovna as proposed by the Senate. No woman has a significant day in the Czech calendar. That way, we could pay our women back. Thank you for your attention and please support the Senate proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u3	I thank Mr Sylor. Does the rapporteur for the Guarantee Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Mr František Vácha, want to comment on the Senate's proposed amendment? It's not like that. I am therefore opening the debate. In the debate, Senator Jiří Čunek will be the first to speak. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u4	Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, Dear Government, Members, I think Mr Andrle has said everything that was in the explanatory report. I will only point out that the Senate has accepted this amendment, this change, because it recognizes the importance of symbols today, symbols of our statehood, and the importance of continuity that many young people do not know as we do today. Therefore, conscious of the size of Karel IV. We want his mother to be behind him on this important day. And so, as was said here, there's a lot of historical background to this. It was probably her who motivated him to see why the Czechs were supposed to be close to his heart. I think we can do nothing more for this than to support this change and make an important day called Day of Charles IV. and Elishka Přemyslovna. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u5	Thank you, Senator Čunek. The first duly entered into the debate is also the appellant, if he is reporting once more. No, it's not. Another duly registered member is Mr Miroslav Grebeníček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last week I received a text from the instigator of the Act on State Holidays, the author of which is Dr Michaela Košťálová. This person deals with a bit of the art of the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries and especially the biographies of important women also from the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries. From her publishing activities, I will mention, for example, the books of the Players of the First Republic, Naďa Konvalinková, Ivana Zemanová, which is a kind of reflection of the author over the personality of the current First Lady of the Czech Republic, and of course she published some other publications. But Eliška Přemyslovna never did. You know, there are remarkable thoughts in the text I was talking about. Among other things it says: It was Eliška Přemyslovna, who, as the only son of Václav, later Karel IV, inspired so much to the interest and love of Czech tradition, history, Czech language and kingdom." What's the truth? At the beginning of the 1920s, Jan Lucemburský and his wife de facto broke up and Eliška Přemyslovna lost all political influence in the country and never acquired it again. The fact that Jan Lucemburský's husband had already taken away her three - year - old for life in 1319 in a hard response to political intrigue cannot be forgotten either! - Václav, then later Karel IV. [[15.40 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are other remarkable points in this text. At least two more. Yes, it says here that Eliška sacrificed herself for the Czechs - now beware - for whom she eventually gave her own life when she died prematurely of tuberculosis at 38 years old. I'm not even going to comment, but did she really give her life for her country? Can I even put it that way? And of course there are other thoughts that say: "Without Eliška Přemyslovna, Karel IV would be. not only was he never born, but at the same time he would never have been who he became without her role model." I was just reminding you, she hasn't seen him since she was three. And if by any chance the author wrote that the mother was always sure, the father was insecure, I wouldn't be surprised at all. That's the level of this assessment. Well, yes, of course, I'm older now, and I've studied real capacities that have dealt with and, above all, could craft and understood the way to explore the relevant spring base. One of them was Jiří Spěváček, perhaps you also stumbled upon his book Karel IV.: Life and work, and he says: Eliška followed decisions and actions almost always with hasty emotions, which generally prevented her from going to sober judgment, and had a negative impact on her younger husband a few years later. And another expert, but I say, my study years, Josef Šusta directly described Eliška Přemyslovna and says here: Eliška, in my opinion, had an inherited commitment to the preservation of strong dominion power, but at the same time acted with a heart that apparently could hate more than love. Šusta also perceived its inclination to spiritual life and the motivation for religious institutions as compensation for the shipwreck of its political ambitions. Yes, any of you can tell me: but these are older experts, perhaps they have been overcome. Professor Charvátová is such an expert. Undoubtedly, the originators of the designs considered also know and respect it. And what does Professor Charvátová say now? The marriage of Jan of Lucemburský and his spouse was not very happy. Since the beginning, the ambitious Eliška intervened in the politics of her younger husband and conditions in the Czech Republic. In an effort to enforce a strong rulership, she repeatedly drove him into battle with the nobility. However, her efforts to follow up on Přemyslův's policies had no hope of success in changing circumstances. Too much ambition, along with a lack of diplomatic talent, has led to political isolation over the years. The king, who began to fear that he might want to remove him from the throne, turned away from her. That is why in 1319 he took the boy away from Eliška and after a few years sent him to France to the court of his sister, the French Queen Marie. At the beginning of the 1920's, Jan of Lucemburský and his wife were de facto separated. The Přemyslovna thus lost all political influence in the country and never gained it again. If you'll have patience with me, I'd like to quote a little more from Professor Charvátová's work. He says: "Life is not very joyful, " so he speaks of Eliška, "but also not exceptionally worthy of imitation, the life of an ambitious woman who, at least in part, has worked for herself. Why, then, does Eliška Přemyslovna remain so well known? We can look for the answer in two planes. The first is the Zbraslav Chronicle written in her lifetime, perhaps even on her impulse and unambiguously on her behalf. The main author of the chronicle Petr Žitavský was not only a great admirer of Eliščiný." And then he goes on to say: "The literary talents of Petr Žitavský, along with the sincere feeling he had for the Queen, have created fiction that has survived for centuries. It is only in recent decades that he has put emphasis on this. It was only in recent decades that historians began to question this painting and slowly, one step at a time, looking for the real form of all those involved in this well written work, including the younger royal daughter and later the Czech Queen Eliška." Ladies and gentlemen, these are the facts that lead me to believe that I cannot - I cannot - support - the Senate proposal. I will restate myself on the proposal made here by my colleague Bendl, who you, in your vast majority, supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u7	I thank Mr Grebeníčk. Another duly registered member is Mr Petr Bendl, after whom Minister Daniel Herman. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, colleagues, allow me to say a few words about this bill. The draft law, which was originally opposed by the government. Perhaps she was aware that the Czech Republic had other problems than dealing with hours and hours of problem solving, what names and what public holidays we should have in the Czech Republic, what names and the like. Or even when we're supposed to be open on public holidays, which is actually the Senate proposal that we've been discussing here - the regulation of opening hours. I think the Chamber of Deputies is supposed to deal with more important matters. But the Senate sent this proposal back to us, which I don't think at this point was a wise decision from them. If they were to study what happened seven hundred years ago and, as historians describe in the past and in the present, they might be more in agreement with Eliška Přemyslovna, even if she was an important woman, next to Karel IV. She didn't have to be in the calendar. I may not agree with my colleague Grebeníček in the interpretation of a hundred years, perhaps seventy years or sixty years of historically documented times. Maybe we don't agree there. But I have to say that I have also read some of the writers and historians he has named, and I would add, for example, a really unique Czech history of Tours, which was recorded by Czech Radio 2, where they also describe the time of Karel IV. and, of course, Jan of Lucemburský, Eliška Přemyslovna and especially Eliška Přemyslovna and her stepmother Eliška Rejčka, where Eliška Přemyslovna showed a strong ambition, which is mentioned by a lot of historians. And they also often mention a very friendly and admirable relationship from the side of chronicler Petr Žitavský towards Eliška Přemyslovna. [[15.50 hours]] And especially contemporary historians correct some claims from the past just because Petr Žitavský, its contemporary and great admirer, wrote the chronicle of Břeclav at the time, which certainly cannot be attributed to something evil or condemned for it, everyone has the right to do so, but I think we should try to read history as objectively as time goes by. Eliška Přemyslovna clearly entered into her reign, when she was here as Czech queen, and when Jan Lucemburský was engaged in European affairs as an important European diplomat, she entered politics often led by emotions, perhaps talking more quickly than she thought, she was often involved in a number of disputes of the Czech bosses of the time, and especially the conflict with Jindřich z Lipá, a very important noble at the time, contributed a lot to the fact that there was finally a big conflict between Jan Lucemburský and Eliška Přemyslovna. Jan Lucemburský took her children from her then and since then, as was said here, actually Václav or later Karel IV. He didn't meet his mother. I also intercede for leaving the Chamber of Deputies on the calendar as an important day of Karel IV Day. And I have to say, I totally understand my colleague when, as a member of the Přemyslid Friends Association - if I say this wrong, I apologize - he would like a přemyslovec to be on the Czech calendar. It might be worth a look at the history of the first Czech king or some other important Přemyslovec, but I would not recommend Eliška Přemyslovna. Which I do not want it to be a sign of something bad, but I think that if Karel IV himself stays there, everyone who is interested in history will be clear who her father was and who his mother was. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u9	I thank Mr Bendl. Now with priority rights, Minister Daniel Herman, after him with priority rights, President Kalousek. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, fellow Members, I must say that I am pleased that we have such an interest in our history, our history. We are in the year 700th anniversary of the birth of Emperor and King Karel IV. and it's one of the few days that even UNESCO has declared a world day worthy of attention. So we have something to be proud of if we look into our history. I must say that I was also very interested in the period of the Přemyslovec, which is crucial to our country, at the time of my studies, and I am convinced that Eliška Přemyslovna deserves to stand by her great son in the calendar. Because if someone was carrying on their shoulders at that time - and the turning of the 13th and 14th centuries, especially when they lived and worked actively, it was not easy, at times of frequent absences of Jan of Lucemburský in the country it was she. And if someone at an early age had imprinted his son with the principles that he had spent his entire life drawing on, it was her again. Whether she was emotional or not, historical anals look at it in different ways. I could quote historian pekař here, Kadlec. I have had the opportunity to look into this and I am convinced that instead of by my son's side in our calendar, it is rightfully due on May 14th, and that is why I am happy to support the Senate proposal that is tabled here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u11	I thank Minister Herman. Another with priority rights is Chairman TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u12	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, just very briefly the attitude of our political faction. I have to say, I'm a little sympathetic with a colleague named Sylor. He simply had an intense feeling that he wanted to get this holiday of Eliška Přemyslovna for reasons that are certainly respectable, to the Czech calendar. That is why he drew up this bill, presented it to the Chamber of Deputies, here this proposal was subjected to popular creativity, there was a broad historical discussion in which listening historians suffered several heart weaknesses, and it ended with the bill being passed to the Senate with everything but Eliška. I have to say, this is such a bitter moment for a translator. The Senate is giving it back to us with Eliška. And I understand my colleague, Sylor, that he doesn't really care what the Senate added to it only if we approve of Eliška because that's why he offered it. I apologize to the petitioner, and I apologize to all of you that we will not vote either for the Senate or for the House version, because it was renamed in the proposal for Freedom Day to the International Study Day. I simply respect the majority will of the House, just let me tell you that there are holidays that are, in essence, respectable and historic, but the Communist regime has dramatically pro-flavored them. This is not just November 17, which was called once and will be called International Student Day again. After all, this is May 1st and International Women's Day. International Women's Day and May 1 have their history elsewhere than in Stalinism and the totalitarian communist regime, but simply the totalitarian Stalinist, the Gottwaldian regime has seized these holidays and, in a total way, vilified them, abused them for propaganda of its criminal regime. And so he did this with the International Student Day, which was well understood by the political representation after November 1989, and therefore, with all due respect to those victims, students from 1939, with all due respect for all that happened, she did not want the holiday to be named as communists who abused this name and this holiday, including the Association for the International Studenthood Union, which was one of the most important KGB residencys in that time Europe, which was based in Prague and which, of course, was closely associated with the International Studenthood Day. The name still in our current legal order, Freedom Day, worships the victims of students and resistance fighters from 1939, fully worships the students' commitment in 1989 and has nothing to do with the criminal communist regime. Unfortunately, the term International Student Day is so tied up in the memory of us who were students or working at the time with a criminal communist regime that we are unable to raise our hand for the bill that re-establishes this change into the rule of law. From our point of view, it's one small step away from the 1989 rejection of the Communist regime, and now I can name it one step at a time. We can already have aesthetics in the government, we have International Student Day again, there are many other things that say what was actually normal before. Let's face it, let's take it as our proud history, which we don't have to be ashamed of, including the criminals who did the crimes back then. [[16.00 hours]] I don't think, in line with my colleagues, that's a good thing. And for this change, for nothing else, we cannot support either the Senate or the parliamentary bill. I would like to express my respect and respect for one of the only important social democrats who, for the same reasons, did not vote for this law, because they think the same thing about this proposal, about this name and about its abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u13	I thank Prime Minister Kalousek. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, the President of the Citizen's Democratic Party, followed by Mrs Válková, who is now a member of the Citizen's Democratic Party. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u14	I could also say from here what our club or our faction will do. And I'm not gonna do it. We're not gonna support a single version. I find it incredible how much time and energy we devote, colleagues and colleagues, to this unnecessary bill. We do not want to talk about EIA, we do not want visa-free relations with Turkey. We don't want to talk about this, about this. And here we are discussing the folk creativity of many of our colleagues. A law that is completely useless, no one needs it, except for individual proposals from individual Members. When the government coalition whines again that it doesn't work according to their timetable, when the Minister without portfolio - today I am well tuned, I will not use the favourite conspiracies that we all know belong to Minister Dienstbier - he will be upset again, so remember: You decide what the House is discussing. You have a majority in the Chamber of Deputies. So instead of many more important things here, we're losing our debate, listening to communist historians with a serious face here telling us how it was in the Czech Middle Ages, and we're pretending we don't have anything more important to do. Maybe you do. We have suggested many other points, more important. It is precisely because the law is completely useless, precisely because instead of Eliška, there is an International Study Day with all the connotations that President Kalousek spoke of, so we will not vote in favour. And we would not vote in favour, even if this idea had not passed Mrs Válková, because it is simply an unnecessary bill. Nothing more, nothing less. And maybe you who like to regulate so much, next time you could amend this law and tell us what we can do not only on days or on selected public holidays, but you could recommend us, or by law, to impose on us what we are supposed to do on important days that are really full of in our calendar, and we will soon have a calendar where there will be an exception that there will be no significant day or so-called ordinary day. And I'm really looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u15	Thank you to President Stanjur. Sorry, Member, with priority rights, Mr President of Parliament's Social Democracy Roman Sklenák. [[War]] Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u16	Just two notes. I'm trying not to get along with everything, because if I were to respond to all the half-truths that are going on here, I would really be here a lot. But now I've finally decided. First of all, if we could look at how the representatives of the various members of the club have acted on this law, I feel, Mr Stanjur, through the President, that the ODS, given the number of Members, would be at the forefront. Okay, first of all, if you're blaming us for wasting our time on it and spending a disproportionate amount of time on it. And secondly, it's just you and the other opposition parties that are constantly talking about the opposition window -- so-called, the concept already knows the whole state. And this was one of those laws that you forced as opposition to be discussed. We just didn't choose it, we tried to accommodate you. But thank you for the reminder, and I promise you that from now on, at least we will consider which opposition proposals we will allow to discuss very carefully for social democracy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u17	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mrs Válková, now duly applied for. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleague, dear colleagues, I just wanted to comment on the demagogical remark made by my previous speaker, Mr Kalousek, by your means, Mr President, who here basically denied the content of his communication to the students who gave their lives in 1939. I really want to draw your attention and assure you that I have been contacted in particular by the students, the student council, or the Student Council of universities, the Parliament of children and youth and other institutions and organisations bringing together youth, and unlike him, unlike my colleague Kalousek, by your way, Mr President, they have not forgotten 1939 and they do not mind so much what has happened - as you have pointed out here - to the International Study Day after 1948. Because they know the historical roots well, which made me very happy. And I've been seeing it in college, where I've been drawn to it a lot. And let me make a note of Eliška Přemyslovna. I've said it emotionally once before, so now I'm just gonna try to be very brief. I think that we should realize that she is a woman who - perhaps she hasn't succeeded - has spent her whole life trying to achieve Czech statehood, to develop the Czech countries of the past and to make what we now call the Czech Republic, and what includes at least part of the territory of Bohemia, Moravia and Silesia, bloom if you allow me this expression. At least that's why I think, as the only woman so far, she should have a place as a sign on 14 May by her son's side. And some sort of historical analysis, to what extent anyone admired or didn't admire it, I dare call it quasi-historical analysis, because it's hard to come up with really objective facts. And to operate with it in the Chamber of Deputies as an argument as to why the name should be changed, I find it at least undignified to speak. So, of course, I would be very happy to vote in favour of the Senate proposal. That means "Day of Karel IV." and Eliška Přemyslovna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u19	Thank you, Madame Válková. I apologize to my colleagues Stanjur and Kalousek, the Members whose applications I forgot. Please - first, Chairman Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u20	Thank you. There is no need to apologize, Mr President. I wanted to respond to my colleague Sklenák, but then I would still have to respond to Mrs Válková. So I'm gonna take it one time. I don't want to argue, we all feel different. But, Madam President, after all, I am opposed to the fact that my comment was demagogical. My comment expressed the feeling of quite a large part of the public, including the students. I was also approached by students. I too was approached by student organizations and said: do not allow students' victims to be abused for the benefit of Bolshevik propaganda. Other students came to you again. They just don't all have the same opinion, and I'm here defending the opinion that the Democratic Republic signed up for in 1990 when it renamed the Bolshevik proposal. And I think it's very difficult to go back to the Bolshevik proposal. But the sněmovna will decide. With my colleague Sklenák - I just want to thank him for publicly saying that he simply said that the government coalition, without discussion with the opposition, will always decide what legislative initiative from the Constitution will limit and what it will not limit. When you complain somewhere again that we've blocked one single law for several months, you're blocking us completely arrogantly with dozens of laws that you won't even admit to the program because you've just decided to consider it carefully.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u21	Thank you to President Kalousek. Now with priority rights, President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u22	I won't even complain or whine. The opposition window was invented by government politicians to show a supposedly kind face to the opposition's proposals. But on that particular proposal. I opened the press, I looked at the plaintiffs of the law, and that's opposition politicians! Pavel Bělobrádek, Daniel Herman, Helena Válková, Jiří Koskuba, Jiří Mihola, Jan Bartošek and so I could continue. So this is how President Sklenák imagines an opposition bill when there are representatives of all the government parties. I would consider it a parliamentary proposal across the political spectrum. The only two clubs that didn't sign it were communists because they didn't know it was gonna be there on November 17th, otherwise they would have written it themselves and supported it, which I think is true. [[A round of applause for a part of Members.]] And we, because we thought it was an unnecessary bill. And the fact that I draw attention in the debate that this is an unnecessary bill, you cannot blame us for that. You keep your mouth shut and then vote, you have every right to, but you can't expect that from us. By the way, you released us from all our legislative proposals, we discussed only three, one you rejected, two you released us, and we finally approved them, so they were good. Building savings and control body for FAÚ. You guys forgot about that. We have helped you, and we have enforced such good bills together. And if you ever let go of any other bills... But you are concerned, I would say that rightly that your Members could support our excellent opposition proposals and you would then have a problem in the coalition, how is it that you voted with the opposition. I understand that. I don't invoke any coalition windows. I proposed today to include the government's draft law on conflict of interest so that you could live up to your strong words, how in that April you will show this Babiš how you are not afraid of him. Well, it won't be in April, I look forward to May, I'll suggest it again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u23	With a factual point, Mr Ivan Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u24	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am joining the opinion that I have expressed here. The law is useless, we're wasting time on it, and the attempt to rename it on November 17th was already here, and we've already rejected it once. So it's a real waste of time. We should preserve some weekdays and let it go the way it is, and devote ourselves to laws that are far more important. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u25	With a factual remark, Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 and Mayors František Laudát. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u26	Thank you. I believe that from some proposal that everyone has the right to, Mrs Válková here has done what she has done with her proposal. Do not be angry with me, through Mr President, you have failed hard to make a statement towards the victims of the Second World War of Czech and Slovak citizens, and you continue to do so. You obviously don't have a sense of peace for what is and what is not tolerable in our society. The fact that other comrades from the left have joined this is another thing. But I'd like to comment more on the presentation of the chairman of the Social Democracy Club. The more things don't work for you, the more I feel there's arrogance. Most of you here, you have great preferences, but the highway doesn't stop, by introducing a second reduced VAT rate you didn't do anything for the citizens, except there's a $3.6 billion hole in the state register last year, as it follows from the Ministry of Finance's analysis, you solved pensions by canceling something and you don't have a solution, so you say it's a financial system, even though everyone who's dealing with it knows it's nonsense. I believe that President Sklenák should take his words back. Or we will really push for our proposals, which are here sometime over two years, to be discussed today. We have every right. I don't remember doing this here in the past period, that it would be so arrogant to deal with opposition proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u27	I thank President Laudát. With a factual remark, Mr Ivan Gabal. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u28	Thank you, I'm not going to keep you here, I just assume that as far as November 17th is concerned, no one will suspect me as a co-organizer that I voted here to return to the international student day for the benefit of my colleagues from the Communist Party. We have every right to interpretation. I like to keep reminding myself that the Communist Party and the government in this country fell because they had police officers beat up the student demonstration on International Student Day. And I think that's the point. You can clap.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u29	With a point of fact, President Kalousek, Mr Grospič after him, Mr Novotný after him, all factual points. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u30	Thank you. Meanwhile, in our benches, I have heard the lovable outrage that has provoked your speech, through the President, Mr Sklenák. You will graciously consider which draft laws that result from constitutional law and legislative initiative, you will admit or not. Well, I'd like to translate into Czech for the less understanding, what President Laudát said. We will carefully consider whether we will let you discuss anything else before opposition laws are discussed. If you're voting for that tone, don't be surprised the opposition will vote for him, too. And it doesn't matter. Start behaving yourself, or you're not gonna negotiate anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u31	Thank you to President Kalousek. Now, Mr Grospic, Mr Grospič, he's canceling his application. Mr Novotný, with a factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Fiedler and Mr Komárek follow. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u32	Nice day from me, coworkers and colleagues. I, although I feel quite young, am already a memorial. I was Vice-President of one such youth organization in our country, and about 15 or 20 years ago, we were discussing with others, particularly significantly left-wing organizations, whether or not to return the name of the International Study Day. The organization I represented back then was always strongly opposed. I want to remind you of one more aspect of why we were against it. The paradoxes mentioned here by my colleague Gabal are that the man who led the International Union of Studies for years, i.e. Miroslav Štěpán was also the person who also organized and directed the intervention against students at the Prague National Class at the head of the Regional Committee of Prague. These reminiscences we don't want to go back there. State holiday November 17th, I.E. is a reminder of the setting day on which the values of the modern Czech democratic statehood arose after November 1989. I wouldn't complicate it with another cottage.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u33	I thank Mr Novotný. With another factual remark, Mr Fiedler, after Mr Komárek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It's been heard from the previous speakers. Let's drop the political firefight, I challenge you to the only sensible one - let's vote and let's go to the next agenda. Thank you for not reporting anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u35	I thank Mr Fiedler. Another point in fact, Mr Martin Komárek, after which Mrs Semelová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u36	Mr President, thank you for the floor. As some of my fellow Members sometimes do, I also want to introduce you to the e-mail that I received: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. I was bored to hell in heaven. You've made me laugh for over an hour. Your grateful Eliška P.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u37	With another factual comment so far, Mrs Marta Semelová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u38	Mr President, honourable Members, through the President of the right-wing spectrum, I think that what you are doing here today is a total outrage and total disrespect for those who gave their lives here in 1939. The international festival of studentship was truly internationally recognized. Students recognize him and recognize him for example. The Czech Freedom Warriors Union and decent people who remember what was going on here and what they know. What you're doing here today, these are ideological blindfolds and the feeble insults of all these people who have fallen in the fight against fascism.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u39	This was the last factual application so far and the last application for the debate. Mr. Senator Čunek made his final statement to the debate. Please, Senator, you're interested.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u40	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would just like to disagree with one thing that has been repeated here several times. The Senate took this view seriously, i.e. he did not say not to deal with it, he did not decide not to deal with it by his resolution, and that is because we realise that today, when every state in Europe is trying to seize Karel IV. as their own, everyone tries to show that they have a history that is firmly anchored, they try to do it not only to others, but also to their young people, so we took it seriously with Eliska because it is our statehood and it is something that, with other values I believe, many of us acknowledge, is Europe. This means that this is not something that we can put behind us, because only the economic issues will certainly not make our country come back with national pride and that we will all appreciate it as a country. And this bill was taken seriously by the Senate. So he recommended this amendment precisely because we think it could be one drop so that we can be rightly proud of our nation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u41	Thank you, Mr. Senator. This was the last contribution to the debate. If no one else reports, I am done with the debate. I'm asking the plaintiff's final words. Please, Mr. plaintiff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, I find it quite difficult to hear all these speeches. I just want to say one thing. Remember, Karel IV. he became a Čech because he chose Prague, he chose the Čech as his home. And the reason was that his mother was Přemyslovna, you might say Češka. I beg you to support this law, because sometimes even youth can read it and be proud to have Eliška. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u43	Thank you, Mr. plaintiff. The rapporteur with his final word. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I didn't really want to perform, but after the cutdown, I decided to perform and remind you of what we were voting on. Originally, the bill was just about Eliška Přemyslovna. Then it only turned into Karel IV. and the motion went to the Senate, i.e. we will vote on the House's proposal as a proposal, where only Charles IV is, there is Senior Day on 1 October, the amendment by Mr Sklenák, and the International Studenthood Day before that Day for Freedom and Democracy on 17 November. And if you don't care, then...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u45	I'm sorry. I'll ask for peace in the Chamber. Mr. Ambassador, please continue when the House is quiet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u46	When I admit there will be peace in the House... Well, thank you. So that's the House proposal. And the Senate proposal differs from the House only by adding Eliška Přemyslovna to Karel. This means that you will vote on Senior Day, you will vote on the International Student Day before the Day of the Fight for Freedom and Democracy and two variants - Karel IV, or Karel IV. Eliška Přemyslovna of the Senate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u47	I thank the rapporteur for his final words. The President of the TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek has now signed up with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, forgive me. It may not be appropriate, but I can't resist, because the joke is old, bearded, many of you probably know it, but it's so perfectly suited to this bill that I'd like it to be recorded in the protocols. And that's the answer to the question of what a two-hump camel is. The two-hump camel is a horse that went through the voting procedure in the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-001-002.u49	Thank you. And we shall proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. First, I'm gonna check you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. I will read the motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 245/2000 Sb., on public holidays, on other holidays, on important days and on days of working rest, as amended, according to the House press 450/5, as approved by the Senate, according to the House press 450/6. I am opening the vote on this motion for a resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 214, 145 Members are registered, for 69, against 62. The motion was not accepted. I note that we have not adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. We will therefore now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. The vote is set at 101 Members. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 245/2000 Sb., on public holidays, on other holidays, on important days and on days of working rest, as amended, as amended, in which he was referred to the Senate, according to the House press 450/5.' I am opening the vote on this motion for a resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 215, 146 Members are registered, for 94, against 34. [[Denied. Let's hear it from the right.]] The motion was accepted. I state that we have given our consent to the bill. [[Inconvenient noise in the hall.]] Sorry. That we rejected the bill. Thank you and I'm sorry. [[16.30 hours]] The next item of our difficult negotiations today is:
