ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 44th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. The Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set out a draft agenda for the 44th meeting on 31 March of this year. The invitation was sent to you on Friday, April 1. I'd like you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. So far, Mr Velebný, card number 11, and Mr Kalousek, card number 13. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr Jiří Dolejš and Mr Václav Klučka. I'll ask if there's another suggestion. Mr Okleštěk, card number 15. If there are no other proposals for the meeting verifiers, we will vote. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that we designate Mr Jiří Dolejš and Mr Václav Klučka. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 1, registered is 118, for 108, against no one. This proposal has been adopted and I note that Members Jiří Dolejš and Václav Klučka have been designated as verifiers of the 44th meeting. I would like to inform you that, before the opening of the meeting, the following Members of the Government have asked for an apology: Mr Adamec within 17 o'clock - without giving a reason, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová - medical reasons, Mr Benešík - medical reasons, Mr Černoch from 16 o'clock - without giving a reason, Mrs Černochová - foreign road, Mrs Dobešová - foreign road, Mrs Farský from 18 o'clock - personal reasons, Mrs Fischerová - medical reasons, Mr Gabrhel - working grounds, Vice-President Gazdík - foreign road, Mr Hájek - foreign road, Mrs Chalánková - medical reasons, Vice-President Jermanová from 15 o'clock - working grounds, Mr Kádner - foreign road, Member Mackovík - foreign road, Member Nykl - medical reasons, Member Zahradníček - foreign road, Member Zavadil - medical reasons and Mrs Zelienková - foreign road. The Prime Minister Babiš apologizes from the members of the government - working reasons, Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek - foreign travel, Minister Chovanec until 16.15 hours - working reasons, Minister Jurečka - foreign travel, Minister Němeček - working reasons, Minister Pelikán - working reasons, Minister Ťok - working reasons, Minister Valachová - working reasons and Minister Zaorálek - working reasons. And there was an apology from the chairman of the TOP 09 Club from 17.00 to 19.00 for personal reasons, with Mr Kučera representing him. So many apologies. And now we'd like to set up a program for the 44th meeting. The Grémium agreed on the following proposals. We propose to include in the 44th meeting of the House drafts of laws returned to the Senate, for which the deadline will run on 18 April, which are prints 455/5, 545/5, 637/9 and 638/8. Point 43 of the draft programme, print 746, which was firmly placed, would return to the block of first reading and replace its fixed classification with point 48, which is press 759, the bill on auditors. We would place the block of electoral points firmly on Wednesday, April 20, at 12:30 p.m., which is paragraphs 202 to 205. Point 222, which is the Ministry of Defence's Air Advisory Team in the Republic of Iraq, would be the first point on Thursday after written interpelations. And that's all there is to the Grémium Agreement. Now, I ask all of you who report to the agenda of the meeting, first of all, that the priority right of President Černoch will be prepared and then prepared by Mr Klán.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. [[The President rings the bell with a warning: Please remain calm in the House.]] Last week, the EU started a whole new policy and a new stage in the dictatorship of destruction policy. She has decided that she will end up with breadcrumb politics in attacks on the sovereignty of individual Member States, but that she will take a huge chunk of our sovereignty by force. Last week Brusel decided to completely ignore the interests of people living in the Czech Republic, Europe, and to submit everything to the plans of Germany and the European Union. You know very well what I'm talking about. Last week, a proposal was introduced by the European Commission to remove individual European countries from the right to decide on asylum. This supreme and indisputable right of every sovereign state is to be stolen. The European Asylum Support Office is to decide on asylum. Yes, the European Asylum Support Office. The fact that it is supposed to put immigrants in Europe at all costs already has its name on it. If this plan were adopted, the Czech Republic would become a mere province of Brussels. It would become a recess for unwanted and dangerous Islamic immigrants. An ordinary European official would thus dictate to the Czech nation, with whom and how to live. These superquotas are no longer tens, but we are talking about hundreds of thousands of Islamic immigrants who will force themselves to come here to the Czech Republic. It's basically an attempt to destroy us and our culture, as we know it so far. We completely reject this proposal and want to -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u3	Colleagues and colleagues - I apologize, Mr President - please settle down so as not to discuss and hear the proposal of President Černoch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u4	We want citizens to speak on this absolutely crucial issue in a referendum. That is why we propose to discuss, as a priority, paragraph 115, House Press 621, the EU migration quota referendum law, which we want to discuss today as the first item. Another suggestion, if I may, is the classification of the press 499, it is the Senate press on the territoriality of executors, on Thursday 21 April as the first point after written interpelations and variable as the first point on Friday 22 April as the first point after the block of third readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u5	Thank you. Please, Mr Klánek, Mr Okamura will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, the Government, colleagues, colleagues, I propose that we place it firmly on Tuesday 19. 4. First, after the fixed points, point 13, which is a government bill amending Act No. 114/1992 Coll., on Nature and Landscape Conservation, as amended, House Press 501. This is due to the non-negotiation of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, which will meet tomorrow, and it is necessary to discuss some amendments and, in particular, the position of municipalities in the Šumava National Park. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u7	Thank you. Mr Okamura, I beg you, Mr Fiala will speak after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose the inclusion of a new item in the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies entitled The Czech Republic's withdrawal from the EU and I ask for your support. When discussing this point, I will propose a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies in which the Government undertakes to initiate action under Article 49a of the Treaty of Lisbon to withdraw the Czech Republic from the EU. [[14.10 hours]] In the case of the Czech Republic, I propose a process involving the implementation of a referendum on the withdrawal from the European Union. On behalf of our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy, the SPD, I have repeatedly and persistently proposed this point at the House's meeting for a year now. The last few months have confirmed his urgency. The last steps of the European Commission with proposals to take over the management of migration policy in individual countries mean that the sets for naive Europhiles have fallen. The European Commission treats us as a protectorate. It is clearly confirmed that they do not regard our sovereignty. This is a political aggression beyond Brežněvův's doctrine of limited sovereignty. There's no need to be a prophet. The situation will continue to deteriorate. We are only at the beginning of the terror of the Islamic warriors, we are only at the beginning of their holy killing, which awaits Europe. Unfortunately, neither the crazy multicultural plans to create a European superstate are over. On top of all this, the European Commission's proposals for visa-free travel for Ukrainians and Turek have yet to be agreed. The combination of these fools' policy at the head of the European Commission and the spread of Islam in Europe will pose a fundamental threat to the security of our citizens and the prosperity of the Czech Republic. Islamization is a reality and it will take place more aggressively. Terror in France and Belgium is just the beginning. The creation of a multicultural Europe by the influx of Islamic immigrants is a plan that will end up in the blood of European nations. We still have time. It's up to you, dear colleagues and colleagues. If you're not just puppets, you need to see reality. What do you need to wake up? Is it not enough for you new proposals for the office of the European Union in Prague, which will move thousands of Islamic immigrants to us outside the jurisdiction of the government and Parliament of this country? Aren't you satisfied with the impending murder or rape of our citizens on the streets of our cities? You'll see all that if you wait passively for what Mrs Merkelová will allow us to do. We have a great responsibility, and someday people will ask us what we did with it. I repeat, now is the time to act. But there's not much time left. This is not anarchy, as everything will take place on the basis of the contracts in force. In accordance with Article 49a of the Treaty of Lisbon, we will announce, on the basis of the results of the referendum, the intention to withdraw from the European Union and start negotiations on the progress of the speeches, including the modification of the relations between the Czech Republic and the European Union. As you know, even after the Czech Republic has resigned from the European Union, four fundamental freedoms, i.e. the free movement of persons, the free movement of goods, the free movement of services and the free movement of capital, can be contracted for citizens of the Czech Republic. So we don't have to worry about that. And together with the speech, we will take fundamental steps to stop illegal migration into our territory, to strengthen our country's defence and the security of our citizens, and to become a sovereign state again. Dear colleagues, our citizens expect us to act in their interest. Thank you and I hope that you will support the proposal of our SPD movement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u9	The next performer will be Mr Fiala, once again Mr Okamura with another proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u10	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, allow me to propose repeatedly to include the introduction of mandatory military training for citizens of the Czech Republic at the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. I want to repeat this proposal of our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy for a fundamental change in the concept of defence of the Czech Republic. In a short time, the bloody validity of our proposal has been confirmed in Belgium. Our movement proposes the introduction of compulsory military training for citizens of the Czech Republic. According to our concept, the obligation would apply to qualified men with the possibility of voluntary training in the case of women. We consider eight weeks of intensive preparation and then several two-week exercises up to 40 years of age. It's a model similar to that used by Switzerland today. It would allow to supplement the professional core of the army with prepared advances, which will be necessary in defending the Czech Republic. The current army does not have the strength to block borders and is only an expensive pocket expeditionary corps. For the defense of the country, it has no capacity and is not ready for it either. We don't have mobilization supplies, and we act like we're never really counting on defending our country again. Colleagues and colleagues, if France and Belgium aren't enough for you, believe me, there will be more attacks. There will be deepening destabilization in a number of European countries with a high percentage of immigrants and the Islamic population and a major deterioration in the security situation around Europe. The Czech Republic must prepare for this development. We cannot wait and we are obliged to act. At the proposed item of the meeting, I will make a motion for a resolution with this text: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government to propose a change to the law adopted, including the introduction of compulsory military training. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u11	Thank you. Mr Okamura, please. Madame Němcová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to include as an item at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies an item called Islam and its incompatibility with democracy and I ask for your support. The fact that radical Islam brings evil is indisputable. In its resolution, I would like the House to commit the Ministry of Justice to developing an objective analysis of Islam. This should lead to a change in the criminal law in which we should ban Islam explicitly, as should Hitler's ideology. If our prosecutors were serious about this, they would have to ban the distribution of the Korán as much as it is not permitted to publicly distribute the contents of Mein Kampfu. The Islamic Sacred Book of the Koran completely fulfills the deed of Section 355 of our Criminal Law. This paragraph prohibits the defamation of a nation or a group of persons for their religion. In several places, for example, the Korán refers to Jews, who are professed to be Judaism, pigs, and monkeys. How is it possible that within a book distributed in the territory of the Czech Republic, Islam's adherents are allowed to insult members of another nation with impunity and abuse their religion? Or let me give you another example. Sharia law is the basis of the Islamic legal system. Sharia is the right of all Islamic believers, because religion and the right to distinguish in Islam cannot be distinguished, and every Muslim citizen must respect Islamic law. This Sharia right includes standards of social behavior and morality. And to be honest, if anyone asks and proclaims the right of Sharia to any part of the population, regardless of which country or state it is, they are threatening such acts of democratic governance. There is no freedom of religion, there is no freedom of speech, there is no freedom of thought, there is no freedom of artistic expression, there is no freedom of the press, there is no equality between people. I don't have to be equal to a Muslim. There is no uniform protection for all citizens. Justice is twofold. One law applies to Muslim men and the other to women and non-Muslims. There are no equal rights for women. Women can be physically punished. nemuslim have no right to carry weapons. There is no democracy, because democracy means that I don't have to be equal to a Muslim. The Constitution of the State is a man-made document of ignorance, so it must be subject to Sharia law. Jews and Christians are third-class citizens. All governments must follow Sharia law, unlike the general law applicable in most countries of Europe, including the legal standards in force in the Czech Republic. Sharia law is not an interpretation law and must not be amended as such. The European Court of Human Rights decided by its 2001 decree - I quote: The institution of Sharia law is incompatible with the principles of democratic society. In 2003, the same European Court of Human Rights issued a decree - I quote: The Sharia-based regime is incompatible with the Convention on Human Rights, especially as regards the principles of criminal law and its procedures, the status of women in the rule of law and interference in all spheres of private and public life and is a direct violation of Article 9 - Freedom of Thought, 10 - Freedom of speech, 11 - Freedom of association, 14 - Prohibition of discrimination, 17 - Prohibition of limitation of rights, and Article 1 - Protection of property and Article 3 - Rights to the free choice of an additional protocol. Ladies and gentlemen, the system in the Czech Republic combats criticisms of ideology, which is not a religion, but a world-dominated racist ideology, but should quickly begin to combat its message. As you know, the mandate and immune committee has already acted twice on my extradition in connection with my truthful statements about Islam's adherents. I therefore propose a debate on Islam and its incompatibility with democracy and the resolution in which the House commits the Government to produce an analysis and to amend the criminal law which will outlaw the promotion of Islam. At the same time, the Ministry of Culture should immediately initiate a process to abolish the registration of Muslim religious communities. And don't think that this problem doesn't concern you, because it concerns all of us - politicians and non-politicians. It explains one correct quote from a German evangelical priest from the time of Hitler's Germany. I quote: When the Nazis came for the Communists, I kept my mouth shut because I wasn't a communist. When they closed the Social Democrats, I kept my mouth shut, I wasn't a Social Democrat. When they came for the union, I kept my mouth shut, I wasn't a unionist. When they came for the Jews, I kept quiet because I wasn't Jewish. When they came for me, there was no one left to defend me. Ladies and gentlemen, the task of this House is to defend freedom and democracy, and it is divisible. It's either for everyone or for no one. And once again, I am asking you to support the inclusion of this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u13	The next performer will be Mrs Němcová and President Kalousek will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am here to propose a new paragraph to the 44th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which is before us. The new item would be entitled Position of the Czech Government and Prime Minister on the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic number 1144, which was adopted on 22 March 2016. To remind you, I would like to say that this is a resolution adopted by the majority of Members from all the clubs represented in the House and concerning, in particular, points VII, VIII, IX. Why I want to put this point on the program. In paragraph VII of the Chamber of Deputies, the Agreement of the Presidents of the Governments of the Member States of the European Union on the abolition of the visa regime for Turkish citizens shall be rejected by the end of 2016. In point VIII, the Chamber of Deputies considers the protection of the external borders of the Schengen area to be the primary task of the governments of each of the Member States of the European Union. Point IX of the House states that states which are unable to fulfil their obligations and protect the external borders of the Schengen area are to leave this area as they threaten the security of citizens of all the countries of the European Union. We adopted this resolution and responded to this resolution by the Prime Minister - who had already left the House at the time of the vote - although he knew that a similar resolution was also adopted by the Committee on European Affairs, to this resolution by the Chamber of Deputies, which, I repeat, was adopted by the House of Representatives of all Members' Clubs, or by various numbers of representatives of Members' Clubs, the Prime Minister responded by saying: this is contrary to the Government's position - commenting on the outcome of the House of Deputies by Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. I think that it is not possible for the Prime Minister to clearly boycott a resolution which, on such a serious subject, should have given him a mandate for all further negotiations at the European Council or even in the case of bilateral negotiations. It is not possible for him to boycott the resolution of the Committee on European Affairs and to do exactly the opposite of what the Chamber of Deputies recommends to him as an authority that is in control of the government. I think this is a flagrant hacking of how democratic traffic in the Czech Republic is supposed to work, because the government is accountable to Parliament and cannot just wave its hands over its will. That is why I propose this new point. I'm asking you to discuss it in several ways. Be today, then, Tuesday 12. 4. As the first item in our agenda, if the relevant members of the government are here. I mean the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, just competent persons. I propose a second option, i.e. Thursday 14. 4. as the first point after written interpelations. If, even at this time, the Prime Minister is not present, I propose that we discuss this point on the first day when the Prime Minister will be present in the Chamber of Deputies, and that is the first point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. Only if you don't mind, colleague. Your third proposal, which says the first day on which the Prime Minister will be present, is today because the President is not excused. As much as he's not in the O.R., he's not excused. So I'm just asking you to clarify how to understand this from a voter point of view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u16	So if the President is not excused - I have responded to the fact that I do not see him here, I thought that he would not be here and it would not make sense to discuss this point. I care about the Prime Minister being there. When it comes to his position against the position of the House, it makes no sense for us to act without him. So if he is not here even at the time of the vote on this proposal, I insist that we still vote that it be not the first day, but the next day when the Prime Minister will be present in the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u17	Okay, thank you for the clarification. Please, Prime Minister Kalousek, this is Mr Lank reporting for him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Please allow me to propose a new item on the agenda for this meeting. This item would be called Procedure of the Police of the Czech Republic against Czech citizens during a visit to the President of the People's Republic of China in Prague. Allow a short explanation. From 28 to 30 March during the visit of the President of the People's Republic of China in Prague, a number of cases took place in the territory of the capital city of Prague, where the Police of the Czech Republic, not only in our opinion, but also according to the views of the direct participants, committed unwarranted perlustration, unwarranted bullying of Czech citizens, restricting their rights, including the constitutional right of assembly. We were also able to witness, even we in television screens could witness, how it was not applied by law absolutely necessarily determined equality before the law. Thus, it was selectively approached by individual participants in those incidents and confrontations. The cases were so many that it is very hard to believe that they were completely unique, independent excesses. The situation impresses - I do not want to say with 100% certainty that this was the case - but the situation really impresses, and it is very widespread in the public that this procedure was imposed by some political central directive. Since the rights of Czech citizens in the Czech Republic have really been reduced, I believe that it is not possible for the Chamber of Deputies to do so. The Government of the Czech Republic, or its Minister of the Interior, but the Government as a whole, is responsible for the work of repressive authorities against our citizens. And the government is accountable to the Chamber of Deputies, which has control over the government. That is why I think we should have a debate on this. In the television debate, the Home Secretary assured me that he would have all the information and documentation by the end of this week and that he would then have no problem going before the Members and explaining the matter and its individual cases. I firmly believe that he spoke frankly on TV, that he was telling the truth, that he spoke on behalf of social democracy as its statutory chairman. Therefore, I consider it fair that - the statutory vice-chairman, I am sorry - that is why I consider it fair for him to be given this time, and I would like to propose this point not this week, but until next week, when the Minister will actually have all these documents, namely on Thursday, April 21 at 11 o'clock. Thank you for the possible support of this proposal, and I believe that a substantive, factual discussion will help to calm the current very up-and-coming situation. I think that is the task of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u19	Thank you. Mr. Lank, please. After that, Mr. Vilímec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u20	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that at the last meeting of the House, we discussed a petition from the Bloc against Islam, which rejects quotas and calls for a referendum on them. A quarter of a million people signed this petition in record time, and it is, if I am not mistaken, the second most successful petition in the history of the independent Czech Republic. When we discussed this petition in plenary, neither the Prime Minister nor any minister commented on it. I note that the only member of the government who was present was the Minister of Culture. [[14.30 hours]] The situation is a little better today, but it's not a big deal either. However, at least the House's plenary resolution was enforced so that the government would comment on this petition. This resolution is just a reminder: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic is asking the Czech Government for a written opinion on the petition of citizens who reject the system of mandatory quotas by 11 April. We have April 12th, the deadline set by the House expired yesterday - and surprisingly nothing. I note that the government has been sitting six times since then. In our opinion, citizens have the right to an answer. They have a right to know what the government is up to with them. Therefore, we propose a completely new point in this meeting called the Government Opinion of the Czech Republic on the petition of the Bloc against Islam against Quotas. We also want to discuss this point today, and this is the first point, or alternatively I propose that this be the first point after the already fixed points. Thank you for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u21	Thank you. Please note that it is 14.30, so I will no longer accept applications for the agenda and, for your information, I will inform you who is all logged in. Mr Vilímec will now appear, then Mrs Langšádlová, then Mr koníček, then Mr Plíšek, Mr Fiedler and Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to propose a solid inclusion of paragraph 94, this is the House Press 403 of the Parliament's proposal for an amendment to the Act on the mitigation of property injustices to citizens of the Czech Republic for property they have left in the territory of the Podkarpatian Russians, on this Thursday, 14 April 2016 as the first item after the block of the Treaty. I note that this printing has already been firmly placed several times and has never been discussed for time reasons. The proposal is made by both opposition and government MEPs and is caused by obvious problems that the existing wording of the law brings in practice. Therefore, I ask the Chamber of Deputies to show the utmost sympathy to this request by law-makers for a firm assignment to the group of entitled persons. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u23	Favorite law? In that case, I will ask the Member to give the President of the ODS.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u24	I apologise to the Member, with my proposal for the programme, I will come forward in order. But, Mr President, I just want to make sure that the 30-minute period is also valid at the beginning of the meeting, or only at the moment when the amendments to the meeting are being discussed. I think it's going to be B, because then there wouldn't be any restrictions until 2:30. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u25	I'll check it out and let you know. Madame Langšádlová, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I would like to ask for the inclusion of House press number 157, item number 33, these are amendments to Act No. 40/1995, on advertising regulation, and Act No. 468/1991, on radio and television broadcasting, on Tuesday 19. 4:00 p.m. It's a second reading. This adjustment is requested by many cities and municipalities, especially Karlovy Vary, who also participated significantly in the preparation of this amendment of the law, and already there are many and many months. That's why I dare ask you to place this point firmly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u27	Thank you. Mr. Koníček, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to place point 158, i.e. third reading of draft Act No.166/1993 Coll., on SAO, House print 610. Because there is a risk that it could be tomorrow, because there are a lot of fixed posts, so I suggest, after consulting with the Minister, a firm inclusion for this Friday after the already fixed third reading points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u29	Thank you. Mr. Plíšek, please. And I tell my colleague Stanjur that he was right. So if anyone else wants to sign up for the draft meeting, they'll have a chance. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u30	Mr President, dear colleagues, I would like to ask you to place paragraph 28, which is a government bill amending the law on conflicts of interest, as amended, and other related laws, second reading. This proposal - namely on Wednesday 13. 4. as the first fixed item of the afternoon meeting, or alternatively on Wednesday 20 April also as the first fixed item of the afternoon meeting. Allow me to briefly justify my proposal. Already at the last meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, the amendment to the Conflict of Interest Act was included, but the guarantee committee did not discuss this press and was therefore excluded from the agenda. Meanwhile, the guarantee committee has discussed this proposal, adopted amendments to it, and nothing really prevents us from discussing the second reading of the Act on Conflict of Interest. Moreover, I add that social democracy strongly insisted on discussing the Committee on Guarantee so that a second reading could take place at the meeting on April. I add that the proposal contains a number of anti-corruption measures, which have been committed not only to government parties but also to opposition parties in their electoral programmes. I think that we should also discuss the second reading so that the potential candidates for the elections that await us for the future can prepare for this law, as well as the political parties that will make up candidates. I repeat my proposal once again. Amendment to the Conflict of Interest Act either on Wednesday 13. 4. the first fixed point of the afternoon meeting, or on Wednesday 20. 4. also the first fixed item of the hearing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u31	Thank you. Mr. Fiedler, please. - Please, Mr. Ambassador, just a little more patience. Before you have the chance to perform, please turn our attention to the visitors' gallery. I would like to welcome to the Chamber of Deputies a delegation from the National Assembly of Algeria led by the chairman of the Abderrahim Sadeg Group. Hello, welcome to the Chamber of Deputies. [[Welcome by applause and uprising.]] Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Just an additional proposal to what has already been made here by a fellow Member, Mr Černoch, who proposed to include paragraph 136, which is a Senate bill amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended, etc. according to the name of this point. I propose, alternatively, to include this point on Tuesday, May 3, as the first item on the day of the hearing, or if any points have already been included, as the first point after these points. The reason I am putting forward this proposal to include this point is that this is a proposal that is already in the House of Deputies' system for over six months last year. It is a Senate proposal which I think has the support of more than one member of Parliament's clubs. It's a thing that has been weighing on our society for a long time. This concerns the territoriality of the executors, and I do not see why we should continue to postpone this amendment of the law, and this is how we treat our fellow Members from the Senate. I would therefore like to ask the Members' Clubs and their Presidents to support this proposal. I believe that my proposal to include this point for the third week of this meeting, I repeat, on 3 May, gives sufficient room to discuss the points that are preferred by both the government and the government coalition, and this point should find its place and support this week, because it is really weighing on a number of citizens of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u33	Ambassador, can I have one more point number? [[136.]] Thank you. Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u34	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to propose two points. I won't say special or new because we don't have any points yet. To the first, I would like to say that the causes of this government are piling up and we seem to be forgetting because the new case always overlaps with the old one. I would like to turn the House of Deputies' attention to the Fajád case. We had a failed emergency meeting in a private regime, when government officials did not take this opportunity to inform the House of what was being done in this exchange. Then, according to our representatives, tragicomic meetings took place by the Defence Committee and the Military Intelligence Control Committee, where the Minister of Defence, as usual, fogged. He didn't clarify anything relevant in the negotiations. As we have announced, I think it is time for us to set up a committee of inquiry in the Chamber of Deputies to clarify the circumstances of Alí Fajád's release into Lebanon. I mean, it's not about criticizing our secret services, it's about giving the Prime Minister political responsibility, if necessary. They were the very members of the government who said there was a leak not only from the Security Council of the State, but from the Bureau of the Security Council of the State, where a very small number of members of the government actually sit. The circumstances are so scandalous to me that it is necessary for the Chamber of Deputies to deal with this. We propose that each club be represented by one member in the established committee of inquiry and that someone from the opposition be chairman of the committee. I think it's okay that the party colleague of the Minister of Defence, who happens to have this secret service in his department, is the illogical chairman of the Military Intelligence Commission. I think at least the committee needs to clarify the questions that are being offered. For example, whether it is true that the Minister of Justice commissioned his brother to negotiate. We should return to the statements of the Minister of Defence, who confirmed classified facts to journalists with a childish explanation: "I had little time to answer the question. What was I supposed to do?" I will recall the Prime Minister's statement, who sent a message to his Minister of Defence to consider his participation in a meeting where there are classified facts when he is unable to keep quiet about them. That's not an opposition statement. This is the statement of the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Bohuslav Sobotka. That's a one-point proposal. Mr President, I have with me a signed document on which I do not know now either 52 or 53 signatures, but a legal number which I am prepared to document before the vote if you want to carry out a check. [[shows]] I propose that we discuss this on Thursday as the first item at 11 o'clock. If the proposal is not approved next Tuesday, that is 19 April, as the first item in the afternoon program. And if this proposal is not even approved, next Wednesday afternoon will be the first point. The second point I propose - you have certainly noticed that the European Commission has come up with strong proposals and reform of the common asylum and migration policy, which means a substantial reduction in the sovereignty of the Czech Republic. And I think we need to stop playing the game when the Prime Minister leaves for Brussels, approves something there, makes a commitment to the Czech Republic, and then either informs us or doesn't inform us more and more, and we only learn it from the media. I think that point could be called the Government's opinion on the European Commission's proposals for reform of the common asylum and migration policy. We would like this to be discussed in the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, so that together we try to find a broader position than the government, which the Prime Minister could leave equipped for such a crucial meeting. And I would remind you that this is indeed a substantial intervention in the sovereignty of the Member States, including the Czech Republic. Since the Prime Minister is not excused or present, I will not suggest that we discuss this today, because I think it is undignified that we look for him around the office, the corridors of the Chamber of Deputies. I suggest, alternatively, that the point be placed tomorrow as the first afternoon. If this is not accepted, then, alternatively, next Tuesday as the second point in the afternoon, or next Wednesday as the third point in the afternoon. I do not suggest once, note that we include these points in the assigned hours for third reading. I fully respect that these clocks will be used by the Chamber of Deputies to discuss laws at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u35	Thank you. That was the last performance on the agenda. I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak on this matter. It's not like that. My colleague Sklenák with a procedural proposal. But perhaps it would be worth waiting for after the approval of the agenda, because the procedural proposal must be voted on without debate, and since we do not have the agenda of the meeting, I would prefer this procedure if you agree to it, Mr President. That's right. Excellent. In that case, I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. Let's take a vote. I will read Mrs Nováková's apology from 16 o'clock for personal reasons for today. Mr Klaška was excused by 14.30 today for personal reasons. First of all, we would vote on the proposal from the Gremium. I will ask whether we can vote with one vote or if there is a proposal for a separate vote. He's a colleague of the Černoch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u36	If I may ask, Mr President, every proposal that has been made here will say once again what is going on, because there has been a lot of proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u37	Yes, I will. I'll read the grémia proposal, too, if that's what you're interested in. First, to include drafts of laws returned to the Senate, which is the press 450/5, public holidays, 547/5, audiovisual works, 637/9, public contracts, 638/8, also public contracts related. Those are some new points from the Senate. Download the classification of fixed point 43, which would return to the block of first reading, and use the place in fixed classifications for point 48, which is print 759, draft Act on auditors at first reading. Then the election on April 20th at 12:30 p.m., paragraphs 202 to 205. And point 222, which is the deployment of the Ministry of Defence's Air Advisory Team to Iraq, to include on Thursday, May 5 as the first point after written interviews. This is a Grémium match. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has order number 2. It's registered 169, for 160, against no one. This proposal was adopted. And now, therefore, the individual proposals on how they were presented. The first was Mr Černoch's proposal that paragraph 115, House Press 621, be placed as the first item today. Just a moment, please... This is the bill on immigration quotas from the workshop of Mr Černoch and others. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has order number 3. Registered 169, for 47, versus 76. This proposal has not been adopted. Mr Černoch's next proposal is the House Press 499, which I presume are executors. Isn't that right, Mr. Ambassador? [[Yes.]] It is proposed in two alternatives. First on Thursday 21st after written interpelations. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has order number 4. It's logged in 171, for 37, versus 88. This proposal has not been adopted. [[14.50 hours]] The second alternative is to include this print on Friday 22. 4. as the first point after the block of third reading. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote has number 5, registered is 171, for 37, against 112. The motion was not accepted. Mr Klán proposes a solid inclusion of item number 13, House press 501, which is conservation of nature and landscape, on Tuesday 19. 4. as the first point after the fixed points, which would mean the eighth point. Excellent. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 6, registered is 171, for 140, versus 20. This proposal was adopted. Mr Okamura - a new item only until the meeting, because the fixed date was not loaded, but only on the agenda, item The Czech Republic's withdrawal from the European Union. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 7, registered is 171, for 15, against 115. This proposal has not been adopted. Mr Fiala proposes a new point, also only until the meeting, the introduction of military training for citizens of the Czech Republic. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 8, registered is 171, for 21, against 113. This proposal has not been adopted. Mr Okamura - a new item in Islam and its incompatibility with democracy. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 9, registered is 171, for 19, versus 96. This proposal has not been adopted. Mrs Němcová proposes a new point on the position of the Government of the Czech Republic and the Prime Minister on the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on the migration crisis, in three alternatives. First, we will vote on Tuesday 12. 4. which is today, the first point. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 10, registered is 171, for 74, against 64. The motion was not accepted. The second alternative is Thursday 14. 4th as the first point. I assume after the written interpelations. Isn't that right? Yes. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 11, registered is 171, for 81, against 63. This proposal has not been adopted. And then there is the proposal that this be the first point of the next day when the Prime Minister will be present in the House. [[A commotion in the hall.]] I guess it's voteable. The best thing to do is to deal with it by voting. First of all, the application for check-out. A new registration, please. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 12, registered is 169, for 77, versus 65. This proposal was not adopted. President Kalousek - a new point The Police of the Czech Republic's approach to Czech citizens during a visit to the President of the People's Republic of China in Prague on Thursday 21. 4 o'clock at 11 o'clock. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote has number 13, registered is 169, for 49, versus 86. This proposal has not been adopted. Mr Lank - a new item Opinion of the Government of the Czech Republic on a petition against quotas, and this is today on the basis of fixed points. Wasn't that right, Mr. Ambassador? [[Yes.]] Yes, which would mean the second point. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote has number 14, registered is 170, for 40, against 83. This proposal has not been adopted. Mr Vilímec proposes paragraph 94, which is the House press 403, which is a reduction of property grievances in the Podkarpatské Rusi, on Thursday 14. 4. as the first point after the block of contracts. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 15, registered is 170, for 56, versus 67. This proposal has not been adopted. Mrs Langšádlová, this is paragraph 33, House press 157, which is the Act on the Operation of Radio and Television at second reading on Tuesday 19. 4:00 p.m., tight. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 16, registered is 170, for 54, against 70. The motion was not accepted. Mr Koníček - item 157, print 610, Act on the SAO, on Friday, meant this Friday, I suppose, for the block of third readings. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote has number 17, registered is 169, for 126, versus 13. This proposal was adopted. Mr Plíšek proposes a law on conflict of interest, I have written paragraph 28, please check that this is the case. Yes. Point 28, in two alternatives, either on Wednesday 14. 4. - 13. 4th is Wednesday, 13. 4th as the first point in the afternoon. Yes, we can vote on that. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote has number 18, registered is 169, for 47, versus 77. This proposal has not been adopted. [[15.00 hours]] Another alternative is on Wednesday 20. 4., also as the first point of the afternoon. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote has number 19, registered is 171, for 50, against 72. The motion was not accepted. Mr. Fiedler, paragraph 136, which is the Civil Code... that is correct. A Senate proposal. He wishes to be placed on 3. 5th as the first point. That's right, so we're going to vote. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? I will declare the vote misguided because there are questions. I checked you out, so I'm sorry, and I'm asking for a new registration. Mr Fiedler's proposal was: paragraph 136, Senate Bill of Civil Procedure, to be included in 3. 5th, which is Tuesday, first point. Print 499. So the information is complete. I'll ask if everyone knows what we're voting on. If so, I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour. Who's against it? The vote has number 21, registered is 168, for 39, versus 86. This proposal has not been adopted. Now the proposals of President Stanjura. The first proposal is the establishment of a committee of inquiry of the Chamber of Deputies on the Fayad case, in three alternatives. The first was on Thursday, i.e. This Thursday, 14. Four, 11:00, which is voteable. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 22, registered is 171, for 69, against 75. This proposal has not been adopted. We will vote on the second alternative, which is 19. Four, Tuesday, first point. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote has number 23, registered as 171, for 70, against 80, this proposal has not been adopted. The third alternative is Wednesday 20. 4th as the first point in the afternoon. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote is number 24, registered is 171, for 75, against 75. This proposal has not been adopted. Another proposal by Mr Stanjura, a point entitled The Government Opinion on the European Commission's proposals for the reform of the European Union's asylum and immigration policy. Is that correct, Mr. Chairman? Reforms of the European Union's asylum policy. Yes, that's right now. We also have three alternatives here. The first would be tomorrow, that is. Wednesday, like the first point in the afternoon. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 25, registered is 171, for 76, against 76. This proposal has not been adopted. The second alternative is for next Tuesday, i.e. 19. 4. President Stanjura suggested it as a second point, but I suppose it was with the assumption that he would pass the original proposal, so I would modify this proposal that it would be the first point on Tuesday. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote has number 26, registered is 171, for 74, against 79. This proposal has not been adopted. Next draft on Wednesday 20. 4. I have a third point, so I have a second point. I'll see it as a block of third reading. Very good, thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote is number 27, registered is 171, for 74, against 74. This proposal has not been adopted. I believe we have voted on all the proposals that have fallen. No one has any objections. In that case, we would vote on the whole draft agenda for this meeting - but I am registering President Kalousek's priority right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u38	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I won't keep you. However, dear coalition colleagues, i.e. colleagues from the government coalition YES and the ČSSD, we really wanted to place a point at the proper meeting on the police progress during the visit of the Chinese President, because we thought that the debate in question was really necessary. What happened took place in a two-digit percentage of cases, in fact in public and in us it makes us feel very strongly that the rights of Czech citizens by the Police of the Czech Republic have been completely unnecessarily restricted and suppressed. The Minister of the Interior on Sunday's discussion with me proudly said that by the end of this week he would have all the documentation and that he would have no problem going before the Chamber of Deputies and explaining it all. And we wanted this debate to happen, because where else should it take place than in the Chamber of Deputies, which the Government of the Czech Republic and the Minister answer to. The Chamber of Deputies, which has control over the government of the Czech Republic. By rejecting the debate, by fearing the debate in the Chamber of Deputies, you have clearly confirmed the suspicion that there was simply a central political assignment for police towards Czech citizens. We can't resign from this discussion. Even though we did not wish for any extraordinary means, we wished for a substantive discussion, you yourself made us, with your brazen attitude, that, in agreement with my colleagues from the ODS, I can tell you that there will be an extraordinary meeting on this subject and that this discussion simply has to take place here. He can't fail. And by rejecting it, by putting your cowardly head in the sand before what happened, then, I'm sorry, then you're doing nothing but endangering the trust of the Police of the Czech Republic. The trust that the institution is struggling to earn 25 years after November 1989 and with which you gamble with your irresponsible behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u39	If no one continues to report, we will vote on the 44th meeting, as stated on the invitation and as modified by the approved amendments. I'll call in colleagues from the lobby. I will begin the vote and ask who agrees with the draft agenda for this meeting. Who's against it? The vote has number 28, registered is 172, for 126, versus 6. This proposal was adopted and the draft agenda was therefore agreed. Before I open the first point, there is now room for President Sklenák, if he wishes to speak with the procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u40	Yes, thank you for your word. Hello, colleagues and colleagues. As has been announced, I will take the liberty of making a procedural proposal on behalf of the Social Democracy Club and YES 2011 to negotiate today and to vote on all proposals in terms of territorial and procedural terms after the 19th hour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u41	Yes, that is a procedural proposal that can be voted on, and I will do so without debate. Initiating vote. I ask who agrees with this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 29, registered is 172, for 89, against 72. This proposal was adopted. [[The noise in the hall.]] Is there an interest in controlling the vote? It is, so please bear with me. Mr. Grospič.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am so sorry. I voted against the proposal, but I have a say in high school. I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-000-000.u43	Yes. Objection against the vote record. I'll have you all checked out on request. A new registration, please. We will vote on Mr Grospič's objection. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who agrees with the objection. Who's against it? The vote has number 30, registered is 163, for 157, versus 3. This proposal was adopted. We will repeat the vote on Mr Sklenák's procedural proposal, i.e. to act today and after 19 o'clock. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote is number 31, registered 162, for 88, against 70. This proposal was adopted. If there are no objections to the vote, then we will proceed with item 1. However, before we proceed to this point, I propose that, at the request of the President of the Senate, we allow Senator Dagmar Terelmešová and Senator Radek Sušil to speak. Initiating vote. I'm asking who agrees with the performance of these two senators to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 32, registered 163, for 135, against no one. The motion was accepted. Information on the amendment has been distributed to you in your mail. And so I'm opening up a point.
