ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 39th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. I'd like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, let me know who's applying for a replacement card. Mr Tejc and Mr Velebný are voting with card number 3 today. I hereby declare that the following Members have asked to apologise for their non-Participation: Hamáček Jan, medical reasons, Andrle Sylor Augustin Karel within 16 hours, working Markéta, Bartošek Jan, working reasons, Běhounek Jiří within 17 hours, working reasons, Birke Jan without giving reasons, Borka Jaroslav within 17 hours, personal reasons, Číp René, health reasons, Dobešová Ivana, foreign travel, Farskýý Jan, working reasons, Fiala Radim, working reasons, Fischerová Jana, foreign travel, Gabal Ivan, foreign travel, Holík Pavel, foreign travel, Jakubčík Igor within 16 hours, without stating reasons, Kailová Zuzana, medical Dana, Stupčuk Štěpán, Milan Wernerová, Koubek Jiří, personal reasons, Nohavová Alena within 17 hours, working reasons, Nitrová Pavlína, medical Zdeněk, working Urban, Pecková Gabriela, work grounds, Pěnčíková Marie, health Váhalová, health Syblík, health Rais, Raupner Karel do medical reasons, health reasons, Rauperová, Jiří, medical reasons, health Zlatuška, Těpová Váchánšová From today's meeting the following members of the government apologize: Sobotka Bohuslav, foreign trip, chovanec Milan, working reasons, Pelikán Robert, foreign trip, Valachová Kateřina, working reasons. From today's meeting, Mr Bronislav Schwarz is still apologizing for health reasons. That's for apologies so far. First of all, I would like to inform you about the proposals on which today's grémium has been agreed. I beg you, fellow Members, to remain calm, because we will vote on this proposal afterwards, so that we all know what we are voting on. Today, the Grémium proposes, first, to discuss these points in this order: Point 57, House print 689, first reading, law, social services. Then discuss a new point for which legal deadlines have been fulfilled, namely the House's Press 484, the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Muslim Republic of Iran on double taxation prevention, second reading. Furthermore, paragraph 63, House printing 687, first reading, the Food and Tobacco Products Act. After these fixed points we would focus on points from block two - reading laws. Only points 10, 11, 12 and 13, House prints 304, 458, 497, 503, we propose to include at the end of this block. The reason is the apology of the plaintiff, Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán, from today's hearing. I would remind you that at 3:30 p.m. we have a firmly divided point 203, a migration crisis. Second, then firmly rank for tomorrow, Wednesday, January 27th, at 12.45 o'clock election points 183 and 184. That's all on my side. An overview of the remaining points has been distributed to you on the bench. Now I have applications here... I have proposals for a change to the approved programme, and I will ask Mr. Vilímec for the first microphone. I'll ask the House for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-000-000.u2	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to propose a firm inclusion of paragraph 97, House Press 403, a draft amendment to Act No. 212/2009 Coll., on the mitigation of property injustices to citizens of the Czech Republic for property they have left in the territory of the Podkarpatské Rusi, either for today 26 January 2016 as the first point after the points already included, respectively, after the fixed points recommended by the Grémium. If this proposal fails, I suggest, alternatively, that this press be discussed for tomorrow, also as the first point after the already firmly placed points, or points that have also read the grémium. The proposal that I am submitting, as an alternative, is a proposal made by both opposition and government Members and has been in the House since February last year. There are more such proposals, but this proposal is caused by the really obvious problems that the existing wording of the law brings in practice. In fact, the authorised persons are gradually leaving and there are cases where the entitled persons do not receive financial compensation because they will die in the meantime from the submission of the application. The State, which has claimed responsibility in recent years for compensation for these cases, should certainly not be inactive against these existing law enforcement problems. In my opinion, the problem cannot be solved, it is necessary to decide quickly whether or not to correct the problems in the application of this law. Therefore, please the Chamber of Deputies, not only for myself, but also for the other legislators of the law, for a firm classification as I have proposed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-000-000.u3	Thank you and please next in line with the proposal to amend the programme and this is Mr Marek Černoch. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. Last week, a very passionate debate took place here in the House regarding the Energy Regulatory Office, which is why I would like to propose a new point for the House today, namely: the House resolution on the payment of support for renewable resources. I propose to include the item today as the first fixed point on the contribution to the disabled. I think it is a great shock to see what is happening today with the support of renewable resources, and that the government is again going to help the illegally solar barons. Probably most of you met at the end of last year with a dispute between the government and the Energy Regulatory Authority about whether or not aid amounting to 42 billion could be paid. Crowns. This huge amount relates to payout only in 2016, when each of us can save on energy about 15 percent of the total price of our bill. It is huge money that has been paid for years as public support for good words without the approval of the European Union. For the first time, the government asked the European Commission for the so-called notification in 2012 and only received partial approval in 2014 for renewables put into operation between 2013 and 2015. Nobody cared about the rest of the resources. All industry and trade ministers pretended that there was no investigation into legitimate support in Brussels. The ERU must, in particular, protect consumers by law and pay public support for solar barons must therefore strictly comply with the law and in full compliance with the laws. In the Renewable Resources Act no. 165/2012 Coll. it is clearly stated that the aid is not to be paid to entities which do not comply with the notification conditions. ERÚ always wrote this sentence in his price decision. Industry ministers pretended that they all met the condition, and tens of billions each year went to the accounts of sometimes very suspicious companies. [[14.10 hours]] In 2015, the ERÚ pointed out that the Czech Republic still does not have approval from Brussels and that Minister Mládek had a deep doubt in this area, especially after he succeeded in pushing the energy law against our position, which brought more harm than good. At the time, the minister put his head on the line that the law was right, and now another blow is coming at the moment. So what happened last year in the background of the energy law fight? In January 2015, the SAO's audit conclusion confirmed that the aid was overcompensated and that there were cross-aids, that it was an extreme impact on the Czech economy. The Ministry of Industry and Trade has not yet submitted a control conclusion to the Government, which was criticised by the Audit Committee of the Chamber of Deputies on December 3, 2015. The SAO's audit conclusion clearly describes that some establishments have a return of seven years, but we support them for 20 years. Thus, for 13 years, they make clean money. Some projects will be repaid next year, but they will receive money until 2030. In March 2015, the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek confirmed this by letter to all Members of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, who wrote that the former ERO management had set the purchase prices above the law and that there had therefore been an increase in prices and overcompensation. Probably the most important thing happened in July 2015. Regulation 2015/1589 of the Council of the European Union laying down detailed rules for the application of Article 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union concerning the payment of public aid and its rules has been published. The main point is in Article 2 (2) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This means that the aid in the Czech Republic can be considered unlawful because it has not been notified in Brussels in good time. She was announced with a delay, and they probably didn't try much to legalize the aid with Minister Mládek. In August 2015, Prime Minister Sobotka replied to the ERÚ in response to the poor setting of the purchase prices that the ERÚ should address any overcompensation in its pricing decisions. In October 2015, Minister Mládek stated that the operating aid for all these production plants should be set out in the Energy Regulatory Authority's price decision only after a positive notification decision has been given by the European Union. This meant a clear position for the Authority that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Industry wanted the matter to be resolved in a price decision where there should be no support for resources without notification, which was also confirmed by the Antimonopoly Office or the Department of Compatibility of the Office of the Government. So we have had clear opinions from a number of authorities that illegal support will not be issued and that all citizens will spare astronomical 42 billion. Kč. But the way it is in the solar business, of course, these companies couldn't let the end of their business get started, and this dance office doesn't remember. At the beginning of December, the Government adopted a resolution that what the European Union had not banned was permitted. Government legislation, however, understood that this would not be the only way to go, because in the case of public support, it is exactly the other way around. The aid is prohibited, only in specific cases following notification by the European Commission may it be authorised. Minister Mládek therefore prepared another government regulation, which said - I quote: In the MIT's view, in the case of solar barons with Mafia projects from 2010, it is existing support and does not need notification from Brussels. With this reservation, and apparently only after a huge pressure, was signed two days before New Year's Silvestr by the former President of the ERO, Mr. Price Decision Nehoda, which says that the aid would not be paid if the MPO's view was incorrect. And Minister Mládek's opinion was so wrong that it couldn't be any more wrong. Mr Gauer of the Competition Directorate of the European Commission sent a clear message to the Czech Republic last week: Support for solar barons cannot be regarded as existing and he needs notification from Brussels. In this situation, at least the creators of that government regulation should touch on their conscience, resign right behind Minister Mládek, because the truth is that everyone once again claims that nothing is happening and that Minister Mládek will allow an unlawful payment of almost 4 billion. A month. The aid is to be paid each month, even if the government regulation is invalid and the ERU's pricing decision is therefore also invalid. I was shocked when I saw Mr Chalupa from the Chamber of Renewable Resources on Czech Television, when he said: Support can be maximum illegal, but it should be paid out clearly. And the D.O.D. didn't comment on it, and to pay off the first 4 billion. Whatever's going on. Therefore, on today's meeting day, I propose to include a point entitled House Resolution on the payment of support for renewable resources. I would very much like arguments to be made here, as it really is. I still think it would be very good if the chair of the regulator, the ERU, Mrs Vitásková, could speak directly on this matter. Within this item of the resolution, I would ask the House to vote on its possible speeches and answers to your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-000-000.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next in line, please, and that is Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-000-000.u6	Good afternoon, thank you for the floor, Madam President. Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. I would also like to propose the inclusion of a new point in the House entitled Financial Impacts of Support for Renewable Resources in the Czech Republic. I propose to include this point this afternoon as the second point after the already firmly placed point, that is, for the point proposed by my colleague, Černoch. It should be recalled once again how the renewable resource promotion fee is designed. After the adoption of last year's very critical amendment to the Energy Act, the charge for solar and other power plants should be based on the size of the circuit breaker, i.e. the average household would be about 12,000. up to 18,000. CZK a year. This seemed unacceptable to the government as well, so the law left a CZK 495 ban for a megawatt hour. So the average family will pay about 2,000. up to 3,000. CZK a year. It's similar with larger customers. Last year's adjustment was made more or less to save businesses about 4 to 6 billion. CZK per year, but this money has to be taken somewhere, so they take all of their taxes and out of a total of 45 billion. CZK planned as a subsidy for solarians and other renewable resources for one single year with a total of CZK 22 billion. CZK will pay from the state budget. And here we are at the poodle core. The 45 billion. CZK is the largest grant title in the history of the Czech Republic. It is more than the budget of the entire Ministry of Transport for the whole year, including the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. For example, it is almost five budgets of the Ministry of Culture. We could build 65 km of high-speed railroads every year, or even over 200 km of highways in a single year. And this support is once again incredibly hidden in billings so that it doesn't hurt so much, or in the bottomless state budget, where no one has the power to deal with those billions anymore. Minister Babiš keeps saying how to collect more taxes, but for what? To pay for the solar tunnel? 22 billion. CZK from the state budget every year? Plus, it's obviously illegal? Let's do the math one more time: 45 billion. CZK per year times 20 years of support is approximately CZK 1 trillion, i.e. a thousand billion, 900 exactly. For that, we could build nearly three nuclear power plants and have forever managed, cheap electricity sources and stable prices. But here it is planned to contribute one more time to the nuclear power plant, once again to pay for it all, again from the state budget and again at the price of electricity. For a trillion crowns, however, pension reform would also be resolved, because only this year, in the event of non-payment of support for solar devices, each of us, including toddlers and seniors, would save almost CZK 4,500. [[14.20 hours]] Pensioners could raise their pension - imagine this, 450 crowns a month, not the ridiculous 40 crowns approved by the government - and to the rest of us pension savings. In short, the pension deficit would be erased and we wouldn't be eating our future. I was intrigued by the idea that, in fact, today we are paying a pleasant future for generations that will be much better economically than we are. And if we were, for example, 45 billion of them. CZK annually paid off our state debt or reduced the state budget deficit, in twenty years' time we would get half of today's horrible debt ax, and that would be significantly better news for our descendants. All of the above arguments are supportive for us to actually consider whether it is not time to put things into normal state. Brusel has made it clear to us that our support for most renewable sources is illegal or disproportionate, that 42 billion. The Ministry pays here without legal support, but with the consecration of the Prime Minister and at least with a silent view of the Minister of Finance, who seeks to save money. Ladies and gentlemen, these are very serious arguments, and if we are dealing with every billion in the state budget today, we will not just leave four billion unnoticed. Crowns a month. I believe you will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-000-000.u7	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-000-000.u8	Thank you. Just a little comment. I am pleased to support Mr Fiedler's commitment to this issue. But I would like to ask him by your means, Madam President, where does he find the overwhelming certainty that future generations will be much better economically than we are. I'm afraid future generations will be quite envious.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-000-000.u9	Thank you, and now, please, next in line, and this is Mr Marek Benda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-000-000.u10	Madam Vice-President, Dear Ministers, Ladies and Gentlemen, I have just one short proposal, in order to point 29, Mr Petr Fiala's proposal, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura and others on building savings and state support for building savings, House press 425, second reading, has been classified as fixed points today. I believe that this is a point which - especially if the Minister Pelikán, who was the only one who has troubled him over the past few months, is not supposed to take up too much time here. There has been some agreement across the Constitutional Committee on what this proposal should look like, and I think it is, of course, just thousands of parents a month who have to go to the custody court in vain to pay for getting their money, and that we would only help these people by speeding up the discussion of this proposal, which has been here for almost a year. So I ask you to support this proposal so that it is classified as a fixed item today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-000-000.u11	Yes, thank you. Please take the next step, and that is Mr David Kádner. Before there is a microphone, for the screen recording - today with a replacement card number 15, Mr Gabrhel votes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-000-000.u12	Thank you. Madam President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to hear from the Minister of Industry and Trade today, if he arrives, and from Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka answers questions about energy security in the Czech Republic. Therefore, I propose the inclusion of the Energy Security point of the Czech Republic and its solution by the Czech Government, for today's day for firmly ranked points. I have a legitimate fear that the Czech Republic may suddenly suffer from a lack of energy, for which we will be able to do so completely on our own. I'm going to go after the resources and try to explain my position. Renewables account for about 13 percent of the Czech Republic's energy mix, but they don't supply us much in winter, especially if temperatures fall below minus 15 degrees as last week. In such a case, solariums, windmills or hydropower plants are capable of operating at a maximum of 10 per cent of their capacity. The Czech Republic would therefore lose almost a tenth of its production capacity and would have to replace it with something. It would go at the core, which is about a fifth of our production. By the end of the year, about two thirds of this production was threatened by false review reports and bad welds. They were de facto stopped and there was talk of the need to start the power supply using a steam locomotive that would be sent to the reactor. Because, I am not afraid to say, the brothel in CEZ's semi-state society did not fall, the ministers did not go to deal with the situation, everything was swept under the carpet and, with the exception of Mrs Drábová, they were all silent. The shares of CEZ are on a long-term minimum, we were threatened by a really few months of failure of another 15 percent of the capacity of the Czech Republic's energy production. Gas supplies, which account for over 27 percent of our energy consumption, can also become a problem. The Ukrainian road is uncertain because of the war conflict and has a number of problems, especially because the 2009 crisis can happen at any time when the Rus closed the taps because Ukraine did not pay and took oil for the European Union. The Germans have shown us that anti-Russian sanctions only apply sometimes and only to someone, and have arranged a separate contract with Russia and dealt with their problems with renewable resources regardless of the consequences both in the Czech Republic and Poland. How would they have acted if Russian gas had stopped flowing through Ukraine and the Němec needed to bail out the production of their renewable resources? Perhaps they will use the gas primarily for themselves, as it is written in their laws. We may have full magazines, but they empty through the winter and in February they are almost empty. So even here, we would lose a great deal of capacity. Last year, the reservoirs were emptied almost to the bottom and even this year they quickly empty themselves. During the fall, the pages of the newspaper were filled with stories of people who waited for brown coal for weeks because it was simply not available. It was sold abroad by the miners, and under pressure from the government to increase mining fees and not break the limits they did not break. Since coal accounts for almost 40 percent of the Czech energy mix, it is once again a threat to energy security. The sum of the sum at each source is on our hands, and it can easily happen to us that we will have nothing to drown and shine if the current bump doesn't end. But the government is sitting here in a sweatshirt, pretending nothing's going on. So I would also like to ask the Czech Republic's Energy Security section whether the government is considering the acquisition of Chinese nuclear power plants, whether ČEZ or a part of it will be sold into the hands of Chinese investors, who have recently purchased everything Czech to achieve and how Czech energy security will be ensured in the light of the above facts. Therefore, I repeat that I would be very pleased, or I propose this point on today's negotiations following the firmly placed points entitled Energy Security of the Czech Republic and its solution by the Government of the Czech Republic. [[Your time!]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-000-000.u13	Thank you and please take the next step, and that is Mr Martin Lank. Law 119, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-000-000.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this time a little bit of a different case. I'd like to propose a priority point number 119. [[14.30 hours]] This is a draft asylum law, press number 598. I propose we discuss the law as a second point today. The principle of the bill proposed by us is very simple: asylum and additional protection cannot be granted if a stranger commits an infringement. Under today's regulations, asylum cannot be granted only if a foreigner commits a crime against peace, war crime or a crime against humanity within the meaning of international documents, and even the new amendment to the asylum law does not address this more or less. We all know that such a definition is in no way enough. We cannot imagine giving asylum to these immigrants. This is totally unacceptable for us, and I don't think it's acceptable for most of you either. At least I hope so. I'll give you one for all the examples. Imagine Prague, Brno, Ostrava or any other city where the same sexual attacks would take place that we learned were taking place on New Year's Eve in Cologne and other European cities. If I asked what would happen to such foreigners who would seek asylum from us and commit such an act, the answer is simple - nothing would have happened. At least nothing happened from the point of view of asylum procedures. Driving with these sexual invaders would continue and they would still be entitled to asylum. I think it is in the interests of the citizens of this republic for which we are all sitting here to prevent it. I therefore ask you to support the inclusion of this proposal for an amendment to the Asylum Act. I remind you, today's the second point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-000-000.u15	I thank you and ask Mr Lank again for a microphone with his next application, with his proposal for a change of programme. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-000-000.u16	I could've stayed here. Well, once again, a lovely afternoon. Let's get back to the power. Once again, I would like to try to include on the agenda our technical amendment to the Energy Act, which would enable the differences between the Energy and the Service Act to be eliminated. This means to include print number 496, i.e. point 104. And I'd like to place him as a second point today. First of all, let me say a few things that I think at least justify this experiment. The government itself admitted that in its giant legislative scumbag, I apologize, but there is no other way to call it, which was adopted as an amendment to the Energy Act last May, was a rather fundamental mistake, namely that the management of the Energy Regulatory Office has not been certain since 1 January whether it falls under the Service Act or under the Energy Act. We pointed this out about a week after the amendment was adopted and since June 2015 we have been trying to correct the law and the position of the President and its Vice-Presidents has not been questioned. But this does not like the government coalition, so the government itself and Minister Mládek prefer to prepare their own technical novel. But even this coalition was unable to accept and push through parliament. Eventually, she returned it to second reading last week to redo. It is said that it is not up to date because according to the interpretation of the Ministry of the Interior, the President is already automatically under the civil service and the technical amendment must be redesigned. Let me make two fundamental points about this. First of all, Prime Minister Sobotka has not answered a heroic question four times about who is now running the office and what will happen to his chair after March 1st, when the deadline for making the service promise ends. Somehow, this attitude speaks of something. The Prime Minister seems afraid to answer that the aim is to remove current leadership, no matter what. Secondly, Minister Mládek put his head on the block here last year before the third reading, if the law means more expensive for Czech citizens, he will resign. So, Minister, at least this uncertainty about who and how the Energy Regulatory Office will run this year may already cost taxpayers tens of billions of crowns, i.e. 15% of the final price on the energy bill if the government illegally decides to pay the fees to the solar barons. I will also give two arguments as to why we should approve our technical amendment to the Energy Act in an accelerated process. Firstly, pursuant to Article 35 (4) of Directive 2009/72/EC - I quote: "Member States shall guarantee the independence of the regulatory authority and shall ensure that they exercise their powers impartially and transparently. To that end, Member States shall ensure that, in carrying out the regulatory acts provided for in this Directive and the related legislation, the regulatory authority is legally different from and functionally independent from any other public or private body and ensures that its employees and persons responsible for its management act independently of any market interest and do not seek or take direct instructions from the government or other public or private body in carrying out their regulatory tasks.'; Thus, European legislation makes it quite clear that the government must not include an independent regulator in any way, and so does the constitutional lawyer Zdeněk Koudelka, who wrote on his website: "The independence of the Office strengthens that his chairman is appointed President of the Republic on a proposal from the Government and can only be dismissed by the President. The power of the President to appoint and dismiss the Presidents of these offices is not formal, but serves to protect their Presidents from the government's current moods." We therefore have a number of indications that the Energy Regulatory Office cannot fall under the service law, and we have the opportunity to correct this legislative technical error, while according to former constitutional judge Jiří There are at least three judges of the Constitutional Court who de facto say that if the legislature expressed a clear will to correct the error, even if it failed to do so in due time, such an expression of will is as valid as if a legislative technical error had already been removed. Therefore, I ask you once again to support my proposal to include in the Chamber of Deputies meeting the House press number 496 and to approve it under Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I'd like us to discuss this as a second item on today's agenda. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-000-000.u17	Thank you. And I'll get Mrs Havlová's mike. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-000-000.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to you with a proposal to discuss in the House of Deputies an unclear situation regarding the leadership of the Energy Regulatory Office in 2016. Therefore, I propose to include new items in negotiations with the names "Service Law and Energy Regulatory Office" and the second - "Support of energy sources of energy in the Czech Republic and its legality". I want to put both points on today as the next point after the newly designed points. The Government adopted on 7. 12. 2015 Resolution 1006 on the systemization of service posts by which de facto the management of the Energy Regulatory Office is under the service law regime from 1. 1. 2016. Although Mrs Alena Vitásková rejected this system because it is not in line with European legislation and, for example, with the approved state budget, the ERU chapter. The government therefore agreed that it simply wants to take note only of the opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. The law has been returned to second reading and the technical amendment is to be revised. So I will recapitulate the current state of the ERO's leadership at a speed. The legislative error in the amendment of the Energy Act was that the President and Vice-Presidents of the Office fell off the list of exceptions which do not fall under the regime of the Civil Service Act. The situation was to be corrected by a technical amendment approved by the Government, but the legislative process was not completed by the end of 2015, and the amendment did not therefore enter into force. Therefore, as of 1 January 2016, there is a state in which the government considers that the administration falls under the regime of the Civil Service Act and makes the resulting steps, for example I reject it, and point out the conflict with the Energy Act and the threat that we are going to violate European legislation. The submission of the Energy Regulatory Authority to the Government is a clear contradiction with the relevant European energy directives. It is unacceptable for an executive authority to submit to the regulator an obligation to comply with the Civil Service Act. Moreover, the Energy Act expressly prohibits the adoption of guidelines from other components of public authorities. The government's actions continued, and before the end of 2015, a proposal for a government regulation appeared in the commentary procedure, which will become a service body to the energy office itself, Prime Minister Sobotka. How will the independence of the Energy Regulatory Act be ensured under the rules of the European Union and the Energy Act? [[Office]] The main thing is to remove the current leadership from the office. Why? Because they pointed out that we pay tens of billions of crowns per year for renewable resources illegally. Just to imagine, each of us could save about CZK 4.5,000, including pensioners, to whom the government added CZK 40 a month this year, although it could cut their electricity bills by 15 percent. [[14.40 hours]] Therefore, I propose that the Chamber of Deputies discuss the point of the Service Law and the Energy Regulatory Office and also the point of support for renewable energy sources in the Czech Republic and its legality. I propose to include both points today as further points after the proposed points by colleagues Černoch, Fiedler, Kádner and Lank. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-000-000.u19	Thank you, ma'am. And now, please, to the microphone with another proposal from Mr Stanjur. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-000-000.u20	Thank you for the floor. I would like to remind you that the Parliament of the Czech Republic has two chambers - us and the Senate. I would like to propose firmly to include the Senate bill, not the opposition. It is point 20 - Senate bill on aid in material distress. The House press number 156 already says he's been here quite a long time. I'll just remind you of some data to support my proposal. This bill was approved by the Senate on 18 December 2013. It's been three years, according to months, two years and one month. The first reading took place approximately a year ago, January 29, 2014, which will be exactly one year in three days. No, to be exact, 29. 1. it came to the Chamber of Deputies. I'm sorry, it's gonna be here for two years. The first reading - we hesitated relatively - ended on December 9, 2014, we discussed it for eleven months. Then we ordered the Social Committee to do so, and he ended his work with a resolution of 20 April 2015. Mr. Senator Vystrčil, who is in charge of this, came today for the Highlands, because there is a presumption that it might get on the agenda today, even if we hadn't put it in place. I suggest, in an alternative way, that we place this point firmly either at 16 o'clock, and if we don't get a majority for it, it's 4:30. I think that after two years we could end this and the law could go through second reading, I do not expect a long debate so that we can vote at the next meeting and decide whether or not we will support the Senate colleagues' proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-000-000.u21	Thank you. The last person to sign up to change the programme is Mr Sklenák. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-000-000.u22	Thank you for the floor. Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I volunteered to change the program at the last minute. I didn't want to suggest anything, because if we were to proceed as we agreed on the agenda, we have a block of second reading today, and we would be discussing the laws one by one, and we would also get a Senate proposal on material distress for all the others who are proposing to be placed here. But out of caution, if any of these laws happen to get support, I will eventually also propose one change, and that is that we include paragraph 16, draft health services law, press 614 today after firmly listed points, which will eventually be approved, because that is a law that matters very much. If we hadn't made changes to the program, it would have gotten to it, but if some changes were approved, his discussion could be threatened today. So much for my suggestion. And if I have the floor, I will allow myself, on behalf of the Social Democracy Club and YES 2011, to veto the inclusion of all the new points that have been proposed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-000-000.u23	Thank you. We have therefore exhausted all the proposals for adjusting the agenda for the meeting. So first, we will look at the vote on the proposal from the Gremium. I'll repeat just in case. First, today discuss and firmly include points 57, new paragraph 63, House print 484, then points from block second reading laws outside points 10, 11, 12 and 13, which will be included at the end of the block second reading, then in 15.30 the interrupted point 203 - migration crisis. Second, on Wednesday, January 27th, the election points were fixed at 12.45 p.m., paragraphs 183 and 184. If there is no objection, I will vote on the proposals from the Gremium at once. I don't see an objection, so I'll call my colleagues from the lobby if some of them are there. Initiating vote. I ask who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 74, to which 159 are registered, for 143, against 1. The motion was accepted. We will now look at the other proposals presented in the order in which they were presented. First of all, we have a proposal from Mr Vilímec, and that is a solid inclusion of paragraph 97. It's in two ways. The first option is after the already fixed points, the second option if it is not accepted, tomorrow as the first point after the fixed points. So now we're going to vote on the first option, that's a firm inclusion of this point after the already fixed points of today's day. Initiating vote. I ask who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 75, to which 159 are registered, for 46, against 67. The motion was denied. Now we're going to look at the second option, that's a solid point 97 to tomorrow as the first point after the fixed points. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 76, to which 160 are registered, for 51, against 70. The motion was denied. We should now look at Mr Černoch's proposal. Since it is the inclusion of a new point, we cannot deal with it, the veto has been applied. The same is true of Mr Fiedler's proposal. We will now consider Mr Benda's proposal, which proposes the inclusion of paragraph 29, which is the House press 425, on 26. 1. after fixed points. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 77, to which 160 are registered, for 73, against 68. The motion was denied. The next proposal concerns the inclusion of a new point, for which the veto was applied, that was Mr Kádner. Furthermore, Mr Martin Lank asks for the transfer of paragraph 119, the Asylum Act, but I have a bit of a problem. In my opinion, the proposal is unvoteable because he proposes to include the second point today and we have placed other points from the Gremia, but I will put it to a vote. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 78, to which 161 are registered, for 35, against 74. The motion was denied. [[14.50 hours]] The next proposal is also from Mr Lank, it is a reposition of paragraph 104, an energy law, it is the House press 496, today as the second point. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 79, to which 161 are registered, for 72, against 71. The motion was denied. The other proposal that we should look at is Mrs Havlová's proposal, but both points are the inclusion of a new point and the veto is applied to this. So the second-to-last proposal that we are going to address is Mr Stanjura's proposal and it is a transfer of the Senate amendment to the Act of Assistance in Material Need, House Press 156, paragraph 20 in two variants. First option today at 4:00 p.m. In case he's not accepted, today at 16. 30. I now begin the vote on the option at 16 o'clock. Initiating vote. I ask who's in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 80, to which 161 are registered, for 68, against 66. The motion was denied. So now we're going to be dealing with variant two, and that's putting this point on today at 4:30. Before I vote, I'll have you all checked out. I'd like you all to sign up with your cards again. I am now opening the vote. I ask who's in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 81, to which 157 are registered, for 70, against 71. The motion was denied. The last proposal we are going to address is Mr Sklenák's proposal, which is a firm inclusion of point 16, health service, House press 614, on today's fixed points. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 82, to which 157 are registered, for 111, against 19. This proposal was adopted. We have therefore exhausted all the proposals for changing the programme. And before we continue to discuss the approved program, allow me to load further apologies that have been delivered to me. For today's meeting, Minister Stropnickýý apologizes for working reasons, Mr Holeček between 14.30 and 18.00 for family reasons, Mrs Hubáčková apologises for health reasons today, Mrs Lorencová apologises for today's day for health reasons, Mrs Langšádlová apologises from 16.15 to 19.00 for working reasons. We will now proceed to the discussion of the point.
