ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-006-020.u1	20. Government bill amending the Senate's statutory measure No. 340/2013 Sb., on real estate acquisition tax /house print 639/ - second reading Mr Holeček, as rapporteur, is on the spot of rapporteurs and, under the authority of the Government, the proposal will be presented by the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-006-020.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already presented the amendment to the real estate acquisition tax in detail here in the first reading. Therefore, allow me to mention only three key topics. The first and most important issue is the change in the integration of the taxpayer's person into the acquirer and the resulting elimination of the option of the taxpayer's choice and the guarantee institute. The clear definition of the acquirer as a payer removes a number of difficulties. For example, if the payer is a transferor today, the acquirer effectively pays the tax to the transferor in the price of the immovable property. However, the purchaser is not sure whether he will be liable to pay the tax once more in the future. That's what we want to remove. Furthermore, there are frequent cases at present where divorced couples sell the immovable thing and are unable to agree on who will pay the tax. Newly, these cases will lapse as the tax will be paid exclusively by the acquirer. Moreover, the acquirer is a taxpayer in the vast majority of the countries of the European Union. There is no need to worry that the change would cause problems in financing real estate purchases, banks will adapt to this change and provide credit to finance this tax. The second issue that I shall mention is the total exemption of the acquisition of immovable property by local authorities in connection with the change of the person of the taxpayer. The taxation of cases where a taxpayer is a territorial self-governing entity is neither reasonable nor effective, since it would only mean the transfer of funds between individual public budgets. In this context, I support the amendment adopted by the Committee on Budgets so that local authorities do not have to file tax returns. Thirdly, I stress that the proposal does not alter the rate of tax, which should therefore remain four percent. Any reduction in the rate by one percentage point would mean a fall in the tax yield of approximately CZK 2.8 billion. The proposed effectiveness of the bill must be postponed, so I agree with the amendment adopted by the Committee on Budgets, which newly sets out its effectiveness on the first day of the third month following the date of the act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-006-020.u3	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and Finance Minister Andrea Babiš and I note that we ordered the proposal at first reading to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 639/1 and 2. I therefore ask the rapporteur of the budget committee, Mr Jiří Holeček, to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committee and to justify any amendments. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-006-020.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The honourable Members, the Committee on Budgets discussed this House Press on 17 February, when it decided to suspend this discussion by its resolution, and subsequently discussed this House Press on 30 March 2016 and adopted the following resolution on the Government Bill amending the Senate's statutory measures. 340/2013 Sb. to the tax on the acquisition of immovable property, House press 639. Following the opening words of Deputy Minister of Finance Schillerová, Mr Holeček's report and following the debate, the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies recommends, first, to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament, that the Government's bill amending the Senate's legal provisions No. 340/2013 Sb., on real estate acquisition tax, House press 639, approved these amendments as amended. The amendments are set out in the system under number 639/2. Secondly, it empowers the rapporteur to introduce this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic. That's what I did. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-006-020.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. I have Mrs Věra Kovářová and Mr Vilímec. First, then, Mrs Věra Kovářová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-006-020.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Committee on Budgets, I tabled an amendment concerning the obligation to submit tax returns to municipalities and voluntary associations of municipalities. According to this amendment, municipalities and voluntary associations of municipalities should be exempt entirely from the real estate acquisition tax. However, they remained obliged to submit a tax return on this tax, which means maintaining the administrative burden, both on the part of the local authority and on the part of the State, in a situation where no tax will ultimately be levied. In the event of cancellation of this obligation, e.g. for a village with about two thousand inhabitants, time saving could occur in the order of a few tens of hours. That is why I have also proposed the abolition of the obligation to submit tax returns, because I believe that it fulfils the principle of efficiency. I am very pleased that the Committee on Budgets has accepted this amendment, and I hope that this will also be the case at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-006-020.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. Now, Mr. Vilímec. This is the last so far in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-006-020.u8	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I do not want to talk about the content of the amendment because the Minister has spoken about it. She mainly shifts the obligation to pay the tax from the seller to the buyer. It is not something new because the Ministry of Finance has already come up with this at the end of the last parliamentary term. The Senate changed it a little bit. From my point of view, municipal policy, so if the tax remains, it is positive that local authorities will not have to pay that tax, because it is part of public budgets, and, of course, what has been adopted by the Committee on Budgets, that they will not even have to file tax returns. The change in the person of the taxpayer itself has a certain advantage for the financial administration in terms of tax collection, because the transferor is no longer the owner of the immovable property in question when the transferor is subject to tax. On the other hand, it can also make a complication in the case of pre-emptive contracts that are concluded. And because of the change in the tax payer while maintaining, for example, the current version of the pre-emptive contracts, if they do not change, the price for the buyer may also be increased by 4 per cent if the rate remains at the current level. The Civil Democratic Party has proposed, and you know this very well, in the 426 Parliaments of the press, a complete abolition of this tax. After all, when I looked at how it is in other countries and Slovakia, this tax is not collected at all. Slovakia is often referred to as such an example in other things - e.g. Slovakia was also here during the debate on EET, or in the register of contracts. There isn't much talk of it here, that the tax isn't collected at all. First of all, the government rejected the abolition of this tax for fiscal reasons, even if it is in principle a further taxation of purchased real estate on the basis of the taxes already paid. So this is actually where the principle of double taxation applies. I, too, propose to reduce this tax to 3% from 1 January 2017, i.e. from next year onwards, i.e. to 3%, respectively, in view of the complications that may also increase the price of land under flats or some apartments that are not new. 2 %. I made a motion in the Committee on Budgets. In its opinion to the Budget Committee, the Ministry of Finance indicated the names of countries where the level of taxation is comparable to the current rate in the Czech Republic. I set an example of Slovakia, where it is not chosen at all, there are other countries where it is selected at a lower rate, for example in Slovenia it is 2%, I could also give other examples. We do not only have to come from Croatia, where 5 per cent is paid. Yes, somewhere tax is required depending on the price of the property, and the tax itself or part of it also sometimes requires income and local budgets. In our case, we traditionally have a uniform rate and the budgetary determination of taxes is actually only about the revenue of the state budget. When we look back, until 2003, the real estate transfer tax rate was 5%. It then decreased to 3 percentage points since 2003 and has been increased since 2013 in connection with the consolidation of public budgets during the economic crisis to 4 percentage points. The crisis has already subsided, but the originally intended temporary measure, as is quite often the case with tax rates, has become a permanent measure. That is why it is appropriate to use this amendment at least to attempt to reduce the rate - I think there have been even bolder proposals - in conditions where there is some consolidation of public budgets due to an economically favourable period. The reduction in the first alternative to 3% is absolutely logical from this point of view and will also make the financial situation easier for many residential or real estate buyers. As far as budgetary implications are concerned, I have studied the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, which states the impacts of the optics of the reality of 2015. There the selection was somewhat higher, 11 billion. - I don't know if it was because this bill was being prepared, or for some other reason - while in 2014, it was only 9.3 billion. CZK, without the Ministry of Finance, at least judging by the approved budget, expected it somehow. On the contrary, this year as I watched, the Ministry of Finance reduced the amount of this tax to 10.3 billion in the budget. CZK, perhaps even with regard to the liberation of municipalities or regions, I cannot judge. My proposal to reduce the rate to 3% will have implications for the budget in about 2.5 billion. max, if I took it from the reality of the last year 2.8 billion, if it were to be reduced by half to 2 per cent in Slovenia's pattern, that would be double, then the band would be 5.5 billion. up to 5.6 billion. Crowns. I believe that this sum would not mean any insurmountable problems on the revenue side of the budget. Dear colleagues, I believe that one of these options - and there will certainly be even bolder variants - the reduction in the rate can get your support and, above all, help to ease the position of many real estate buyers. In a detailed debate, I will then refer only to the House document, where the amendment, including the justification, is described. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-006-020.u9	I thank Mr Vilímc and for the debate further in the general debate is Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-006-020.u10	Thank you for the floor. Please don't be alarmed, because I will defend the proposal made by the Minister of Finance. He is far from being presented because it is more comfortable for financial administration. But the impact is particularly comfortable for a taxpayer who is increasing his confidence. The current legal situation, when the real estate transfer tax is paid, has a mutual liability between the seller and the buyer. In other words, if the seller doesn't pay the tax, then the tax administration, according to the current law, enforces it after the buyer, because it guarantees it. It itself mutual liability among taxpayers is something quite unpleasant for the taxpayer. We have it in this case, then we have it in value added tax. And in my practice, I experienced a few really heartbreaking cases where the acquirer bought the property, within the property of course paid the seller a tax which was included in the price, the seller didn't pay the tax, the money disappeared, the grandmother gave it to the grandchildren or the seller paid the debts of the property, and because the financial administration could not recover it from it, it turned to the guarantor who was the owner of the property, and in several cases, the fact that the honestly paid property, in which he had already paid the tax, which had not been paid, had been removed due to the unpaid tax. There were a number of cases. They hurt my heart, and there was no way to help those people. The law allowed them to give a payment calendar, but the law didn't allow them to take it into account, to make it cheaper, or to forgive the tax. This instrument, which will transfer the obligation to the real estate buyer, will eliminate this problem. It'll just end up there, there won't be any guarantee. The tax will be paid by the acquirer of the property, and if he does not take it, after all, the tax will also be included in the price of the property, so if the property is disposed of, it will be considerably fairer than in the first case. So I'm definitely behind it. Just as I support the reduction of the tax for reasons that Mr Vilímec has already said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-006-020.u11	I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Who's next for the general debate? Yes, Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-006-020.u12	Thank you for the floor. Unlike Miroslav Kalousek, I believe that the main reason is to increase the comfort of financial authorities and financial administration officials. Because, again, we say that these citizens can't have contractual freedom because they can't handle it. And the smart state will treat it with the law. I requested on the Committee on Budgets statistics how much difference there is between the prescribed tax and the collected tax. There is, in principle, no interesting non-payments of this tax. Even if one party fails to fulfil its obligation, it is quite easy to deal with. It is a very common institute that part of the purchase price is placed into a notary account or to a lawyer and is released to the other party only when it pays the property acquisition tax. That's pretty common practice, and a reasonable seller or a reasonable acquirer does that in case the seller pays for it. There's nothing wrong with that. If the seller doesn't want to do it, I think it's some kind of warning sign. There's no reason he won't accept it. If he fulfills his obligation, that part of the purchase price will be released. However, so that we do not have this dispute at all, whether it is better for the acquirer of the transferor I come up with an amendment, respectively. with two. [[unintelligible]] I will then justify them in a detailed debate. The first actually copies our proposal to abolish this tax. If we cancel the tax, we don't have to debate whether the amendment serves more officials or more citizens. It's quite simple. I've already talked about it in the first reading. It is a tax whose purpose cannot in principle be explained to citizens. Why are they paying? And the answer is often: because it has always been. Or: Because it's somewhere else. But that's not a logical reason. That someone... It's kind of the student thing. I broke the window, but, teacher, it's not my fault, because Franta broke it, too, right? Well, it's not entirely my fault, because I only did what other people did. And all that pointing fingers at the others. For the other taxes, especially for direct taxes, this is quite logically explained and let's argue about the amount of the tax. Even those indirect taxes, such as excise duty, can explain the reason why the state will impose it. Even real estate tax can be explained because it is the income of the municipality and the municipality very often operates public services that are attractive for the locality. He lights up, takes care of the sidewalks, eventually takes public transportation there. All of this increases the price of the site if the city provides these services or does not provide them. With this tax, it simply cannot be justified except that it is quite simply collected, and in addition to making 11 billion income in the state budget. If you look at the implementation of the state budget for 2015, or for the first three months of this year, you can see that, thanks to the growth of the economy and the success of the economy, direct taxes are rising. Whether from dependent activity or corporate tax. And the amounts that will be comparable or higher in that year than the total yield of this tax. So I think it's time and it's a good economic situation for us to lower the tax. And if it seems too radical to you, you would like to keep it, then my second amendment actually complements the palette from Mr Vilímec, as he proposes in the variant a reduction of the rate from 4 to 3 and 2 %, so I suggest, in addition to the total cancellation, a reduction of the rate to 1 per cent. Let's work with this number around 2.7 billion. 1 per cent, so everyone can calculate, if you cut by 3 per cent, it's a state budget blackout, but the money that stays for taxpayers about 8.1 billion, 2 per cent is 5.4, and if we leave the 3% rate, then the blackout is, whether I call it a blackout or a reduced state budget revenue, about 2.7 billion. I don't think there's any reason to argue with the Treasury about the interpretation. It's a fairly simple number for this tax. Divide by four and you know what one percentage point is if the total volume of trade is maintained, which is very difficult to estimate. However, one aspect that is also important. We say very often that we want young families to take housing, and that simply increases by 4 percent the price of housing if it is taken into personal ownership. And it doesn't really matter who pays it, because the seller will include it in his reasoning. So he has an idea of how much he gets for his property, and then it's up to their contract agreement whether that 4 percent pays the seller or the buyer. But each of those taxpayers is wondering how much he's left with after deduction of the property acquisition tax. In a detailed debate, I will then sign up for this, possibly supplementing the oral amendment, because the proposals are so simple that I did not make any written justification in this written proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-006-020.u13	I thank Mr Stanjur. Now in the general debate, Mr Votava. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-006-020.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I certainly understand the motivation leading the petitioner, the Ministry of Finance, to this change in order to pay the tax to the acquirer. I'm sure the liability issues will go away, like the problems have happened. That's true. Of course, I would not cancel the tax, as my fellow Members from the Civil Democratic Party suggest. There is quite a significant income if I take it in favour of the state budget, 11 billion. However, perhaps it is worth considering, and now I do not want to make heresy ideas here, it is not unusual in the European Union to share the tax with the village, with the city or with the region. I know that now, of course, I'm not pushing it now, just to be clear, but we may need to have a debate on this in the future. It is not, as I have said, anything unusual and in many countries it is, for example, in Poland, Portugal, Slovenia, Austria, Romania, Greece or the tax is shared with the public budget of the municipality in some countries or regions, as I have said. So maybe considering the future would be worth it. I also have such insights or requests, suggestions from local politicians, from mayors. It is true that there is no tax in some countries, virtually. It's not chosen, it's already mentioned here by a colleague named Vilímec. He mentioned Slovakia, it's in Estonia, Lithuania, it's true. So I'm just giving it some thought, some future discussion. As to the fact that they will pay the acquirer, of course the price will rise probably. And maybe it will cause problems, which will show, of course, time, with the banks. If a person wants to take a mortgage, he will, of course, get the bank's promise or bank's funds at the purchase price, and he will have to have his own resources for the tax. This may even cause some problems. Otherwise, of course, I will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-006-020.u15	I thank Mr Votav. Once again, Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-006-020.u16	Maybe we could take the rate out of Slovenia and then talk about splitting up. There are 2%, as Mr. Vilímec said. However, we have already started the debate, and it has been started by the President of the Budget Committee, on the budgetary determination of taxes, and which taxes are to be shared. So I think that much more important for municipalities is that excise duties are shared as far as possible. I think that's more interesting. At such a low yield, and it's 11 billion, yes, the amount is, in the absolute number we think it's high, but if we take how much tax a year, it's a little over 1%, about 1,2% of all tax revenue. And to do that, to calculate the coefficients again... [[18.10 hours]] I think it is much better if, for example, you support one of our proposals to increase the share of municipalities in VAT. It's even more significant than this amount of insignificant tax than putting this tax in shared taxes, plus when we propose that they be abolished, then when you divide zero into your favorite regions, there'll be zero left over, and there'll be zero left over for our favorite communities. But the debate is perfectly fine. Sometimes it would be good to have that debate outside the annual debate about how the share is going to increase, how the pie is going to split, what to put in the pie. In principle, this government is trying to get rid of the last remnants of motivational elements for municipalities from the Act on Budgetary Taxation, because there is not much incentive left. And if we completely cancel it, it won't really matter whether a particular municipality, a city or a region creates conditions for business, creates conditions for employers because of the total tax collection it gets the same share as its neighbors, who may not create and invest money elsewhere. So we're more inclined to debate what taxes are supposed to be shared, and in the long run, it seems right to have excise duties. It should be said that all finance ministers, regardless of party jurisdiction, have long rejected this. That's what I'm saying. It was also in our government that then the finance ministers refused to share the excise tax with municipalities and regions. But that doesn't mean we can't have the debate. [[Unintelligible]] it's really the easiest thing to do, like with road taxes, to cancel it, because the two taxes make about 16 billion revenue, and that's about 2 percent of all taxes collected when I round it up. And when I listen to the proposals of individual ministers, how, what and how much they want to increase expenditure for next year, for example, which is by chance an election, so today's report that the money will rise for civil servants if possible this year, as the Prime Minister said, so that it will be before the elections, that it will have the effect. You're gonna tell us this has nothing to do with the election, but we don't quite believe you. So the $16 billion in those two taxes isn't really a budget hit so the state can't handle it. Or are you telling me that two percent of spending is something the state can't handle? And with the property acquisition tax, the confusion and chaos are indicative when I look at the two written documents I have at my disposal. Many months ago, I interviewed the Minister of Finance, I asked for information, and this House press is available to you all, about how many Financial Administration employees are involved in the administration of which taxes and what are the operating costs of administration and the collection of that particular tax. We got the numbers. We thought they were credible because the Ministry of Finance gave them to us. The President of the Committee on Budgets knows that at the last meeting of the Committee on Budgets, these figures were questioned by the Deputy Minister of Finance, and she sent me other figures that are really diametrically different from what the Minister of Finance sent me. So at this point, we have either 300 employees or 600 employees to tax from the acquisition of property. One is claimed by the finance minister, one is claimed by his deputy. And the operating costs of collecting this tax are either half a billion or 200 million. With such numbers, and both documents have members of the Budget Committee at their disposal, we are working. I'm not here to judge whether the Minister of Finance or his deputy is right. But the figures themselves show that the state doesn't actually know exactly how many people are paying this tax. It is clear that this tax will be popular among the officials of the Financial Administration. There's nothing to prove. There you do not need to prove whether these were justified costs or were not, whether they belong to the tax base or not. Here, quite complicated, and try to imagine that one of you is selling a garden, try to model a price and try to collect a tax form from the real estate acquisition, how complicated it is. It's not a 20-minute thing, because you're assessing whether the price was normal, whether it was 75 percent or not. So in the end, you're gonna hire somebody to do it. So not only are you going to pay 4 percent, but to fill out the forms that aren't really trivial, you're going to spend thousands more crowns to fill it out right for you. What about the state? The state knows from the real estate register that the change took place, it knows the amount for which the property was stolen because it is listed in a publicly accessible document, and it calculates the percentage. So let's not be surprised that Financial Administration officials like the tax because it's such a typical administrative activity without entering any argumental duel, God forbid, with a big firm that has a big, strong economic department or a strong legal department or an external one, whether auditors or lawyers who fight for every crown of tax base for that client, and there the disputes are quite complicated, and they don't really want to do that Financial Administration. However, when a small businessman pays a little seven days later, it is again administratively very easy to take out the penalty payment, send and quickly collect. The way out of this is to cancel the two taxes we are talking about, those hundreds of officials to transfer to the administration either the income tax of natural or legal persons, or the excise tax, or the value added tax. There the tax evasion and tax evasion are much higher, and there the tax administration should turn its attention, not here on the fundamentally marginal revenues of the state budget. And what was very important, and I recommend that you study the answer from the Minister of Finance to that question, there's also a number of how much tax returns there is. These are hundreds of thousands of tax returns, and the withdrawal is 11 billion. For road taxes, the statistics are even worse, when the collection is 5.5 billion and even more tax returns and even more complicated quarterly payments and things like that. And while we're here, I feel like it was last week, when you correct me that it was at the last meeting, we've already discussed here a proposal on whether there should be mandatory employees in the Supervisory Boards, and especially colleagues from the government's ANO movement acted like the biggest right-wingers and that it's not right-wing. And I was here on the microphone saying that I agree that in private companies, the state should not dictate who should be and who should not be on the board of supervisors. I haven't changed my mind. But it's useless to disturb right-wing anyway. I so firmly believe that at third reading, you will rejoin this, or it will turn out that it is only selective, that sometimes you look right and sometimes you vote left-wing with your coalition partners, I think especially the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-006-020.u17	Thank you. Before we make any factual remarks, I will read the apology that has come to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. From 6:00 p.m. for business reasons, Mr. Zlatuška, further apologizes from 17.45 a.m. to the end of the meeting day Martin Kolovratník and from 18:00 Milan Šarapatka and from 18.15 p.m. Mr. Petr Adam. Mr Radek Vondráček's point of order now. Mr Kalousek shall be prepared for a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-006-020.u18	Thank you, Mr President. We're having a bit of a conversation. However, my previous speakers inspired me to remind them. My colleague Stanjura here praised the quality of the barracks and was begging for the costs of tax collection. So I wanted to ask, or I wanted to say, "Well, why hasn't it been a long time since what they have in neighboring countries, like Germany, that, in short, the fact that the tax is paid is a condition of being put into the real estate register? Then the tax collection would be 100% and the cost would be minimal. People in financial offices would then stop having jobs, they wouldn't control anything, they wouldn't have anything to fill out. So if there's, let's say, a concoction for such ideas and we're kind of blazing here, then I'm also coming up with my idea: let's make the contract written by someone with legal education, the money was deposited in safekeeping, the tax was paid, and only then would the cadastral office put ownership into the real estate register. That way, we get 100% tax collection and there won't be any costs or minimum costs to collect them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-006-020.u19	Thank you and now Mr Kalousek also on the point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-006-020.u20	Thank you. I would like to respond politely to Mr Stanjur on two points. The first is that he paused over the fact that the Ministry of Finance is not clear whether 300 or 600 employees. I would like to stand up for the Minister again. On Friday, when we voted for lottery and gambling taxes, the Minister on social networks informed the public that 110 ČSSD Members and 27 TOP 09 Members and about 25 ODS Members voted for the gambling lobby. And in this way, it got to 269 Members of the Chamber of Deputies, setting the standard of credibility of all the numbers it informs us of, and I think that we should not then blame it on some 300 or 600 employees. We simply believe it as the petitioner deserves his numbers. [[18.20 hours]] Second thing, the second point is the solution through the law enforcement. In my practice, when I was talking about those heartbreaking cases, I had just seen cases where the money was put into legal custody and the lawyer embezzled them and the taxpayer was where he was. So, really, the best solution is now proposed at this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-006-020.u21	I thank Mr Kalousek for his time, and I ask if anyone else in the general debate. If not, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking the Minister if he's interested in the final word. [[No.]] Nor does the rapporteur. I conclude the general debate and initiate the debate in detail where we have Mr Vilímec's envoy. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-006-020.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, in a detailed debate, I will sign up for the House document under number 4182. It is a proposal to reduce the real estate acquisition tax in two alternatives - to 3% and to 2%. As far as effectiveness is concerned, I suggest that the reduction should take effect on 1 January 2017. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-006-020.u23	I thank Mr Vilímc and, in the general debate, Mr Stanjura entered into a detailed debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-006-020.u24	Under the Rules of Procedure, I am applying to two amendments. The first one is House Document No. 4188. There I propose a complete abolition of this property acquisition tax as an unnecessary tax, with a costly collection, with many employees, which in principle harms the promotion of the real estate market and the possibility of acquiring their own real estate for young families. And, as I said in the alternative, the second amendment - House document number 489, where I propose lowering the rate from 4 per cent to 1 per cent because the rate of 4 per cent is too high and burdening the acquirer or seller with an amount of 11 billion per year. If we were to approve, that amount would be about 8,1 or 8.2 billion lower. That will remain the taxpayers, and they can invest the money in other things and return it to the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-006-020.u25	I thank Mr Stanjur. Who's next for a detailed debate? I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. Since there was no proposal that we could vote at second reading, I am ending second reading of this press, paragraph 20, and I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is item 21. The Minister of Finance stayed at the rapporteur's table because item 21 is
