ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u1	Madam, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 44th session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. I beg you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's applying for a replacement card. Mr Tejc votes with replacement card number 13. I would like to inform you that the following Members of the Government have asked to apologise for their absence at the hearing: Mr Běhounek - personal Wernerová, Mr Benešík - foreign travel, Mr Beznoska - foreign travel, Mr Urban from 17.00 - health reasons, Mr Černoch - foreign travel, Mrs Dobešová - foreign travel, Mr Farský - foreign travel, Mr Šrámek - foreign travel, Mrs Golasowská 17 to 19 - working Váhalová, Mrs Halíková until 18.00 - working Vozka, Mr Holík - foreign travel, Mr Horáček - working Pleticha, Mrs Hubáčková - working Zelienková, Mrs Chalánková - medical reasons, Mr Janulík - working grounds, Vice-President Mr Jermanová - Seďa Putnová - Rais grounds - working grounds, Mrs Pecková - working grounds, Mrs Matušovská until 16.00 - medical reasons, Member Nekl - foreign trip, Member Nykll - Member - medical reasons, Mrs Opálka - medical reasons, Mrs. Minister Chovanec apologizes from the members of the government - working reasons, Minister Marksová - foreign travel, Minister Němeček - foreign travel, Minister Stropnickýý - foreign travel, Minister Valachová - working reasons and Minister Zaorálek - working reasons. So many apologies. Before I open the discussion on the agenda, I would like to inform you first of the proposals on which today's Chamber of Deputies has agreed. We propose the following changes: Tuesday, 19. 4th Act to launch bills returned to the Senate, which are points 2, 3, 4 and 5. Then continue with the firmly ranked points of Mr. Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš, paragraphs 19 to 25. Fixed point 17 would return to the block of second reading, that is to cancel its fixed classification. Next we would continue the points from the block of the second and first readings. Wednesday 20. 4. To discuss the third reading, which is paragraph 161 and paragraph 189, then proceed with points 62, 78 and 75. At 12.30 there would be elections, which are points 206 to 209. At 14.30 we would place points 54, 55, 144, 50 and 53 firmly. Next, we'd continue with the points from the first reading block. Thursday would be standard. I'm alerting you to an emergency meeting. Friday 22nd. 4. after a fixed point 160, we would include point 31, a possible third and first reading. Friday 6. 5. we would after points of the Czech National Bank, i.e. 221 and 222, they firmly ranked points from the third reading block, i.e. points 168, 169, 170, 171, 172 and 173. If we still have time, then another third reading or first reading. That's the conclusion of today's grémium. I will now give the floor to the various Members to speak. First of all, Mr Lank for the club, because the President is duly excused. Mr. Faltýnek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Beautiful afternoon, colleagues. Last Tuesday at the beginning of this meeting, we proposed here at the Dawn Club discussing points that would help protect our country from Islamization and terrorism. We suggested that the Czech Government finally comment on the petition of the Block against Islam against immigration quotas and that we discuss a referendum on the rejection of quotas. You, dear colleagues, co-workers of the government coalition, have rejected it. Since then, another week has passed, which the Czech Republic is unfortunately closer to permanent immigration quotas, by which the Czech Republic is closer to dangerous visa-free travel with Turkey and by which the Czech Republic is closer to losing national sovereignty. Why is that? First of all, the European Parliament adopted a resolution calling for a single Union asylum system. This should, in particular, include the general redistribution of migrants on the basis of quotas and the transfer of the right to grant asylum to the European Union by the Member States. The granting of asylum, this national authority so far, is to be transferred to the European Asylum Support Office. In individual countries, this office would only have branches which would only handle the regulations on allocated immigrants from headquarters in Brussels. Prime Minister Sobotka, like last autumn, began to calm the public immediately after that, that the Czech government would use all the means to defend itself against the quotas in Brussels. It's like a copycat, that's like last year's situation. At that time, the Prime Minister also said that the Czech Republic used all available resources at both work and political level against the introduction of quotas. But the truth was that he deliberately overruled himself at the hearing. He did not take advantage of his options for discussion, and this has seriously damaged us. Today, this factual collaboration with Brussels and the damage to Czech national interests is repeated. The Czech Republic did not reject the quota nor are they to be judged. He persistently refuses to launch a referendum that would block them. Another threat is visa-free relations with Turkey, which is rapidly approaching, and Turkey is trying to blackmail it, which is no other way to call it, to speed it up. We have said here several times that visa-free travel with Turkey is equal to visa-free travel with terrorists from the Islamic State and that it poses a huge security risk, which was not even properly evaluated by the Czech security forces. We do not intend to accept this situation, and we want to use all legal means to stop the government in its policy of submitting to Brussels and receiving immigrants. That is why today we will also propose the steps that we want to stop this government's progress. At my point, I want to return to the petition against quotas signed by the Bloc against Islam in a record-breaking time by a quarter of a million citizens. This petition is persistently ignored by the government. When we discussed it at the House plenary, neither the Prime Minister nor any minister commented on it. At least the resolution was enforced so that the government would comment on this petition. This resolution is - to remind you: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Czech Government for a written opinion on the petition of citizens who reject the compulsory quota system by 11 April. Today we have 19 April, which means that it is more than a week that the government owes all citizens of the Czech Republic an answer. And we have a right to that answer. We therefore propose a new point in this meeting, which is called the opinion of the Government of the Czech Republic on the petition of the Bloc against Islam against Quotas. We want to discuss this point today, and this is the first point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u3	Thank you. Mr. Faltýnek, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u4	Good afternoon. Mr President, allow me, on behalf of our club, to propose a fixed classification of points, namely paragraph 57 - Government bill, criminal code, House press 588; paragraph 58 - Government bill, civil code, press 642; paragraph 59 - Government bill on the use of funds from property criminal sanctions, press 650; also paragraph 60 - Government bill on victims of crimes, press 658; further paragraph 61 - Government bill, criminal code, press 753, all at first reading; and also item 17 - Government draft law on conservation of nature and landscape, House press 501, in second reading, on Wednesday 4 May as the first points of the afternoon negotiations from 14.30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u5	Thank you, too. Furthermore, with priority rights, Mr Mihola.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a solid inclusion of paragraph 66, House press 712, this is the act on wine-growing, for today, after the fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u7	Thank you. I don't see another priority right. In that case, we will follow the written applications. Mrs Havlová and Mr Kádner will prepare... Excuse me, Mrs... Mrs Černochová is reporting from the scene. Excellent, you'll get off in order. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, honourable ministers and ministers, I would like to give priority to discuss paragraph 119, House press 621, European Union immigration quota referendum law. I suggest we discuss it first thing today. The referendum on the rejection of EU quotas is the only chance to stop the cooperation of the Czech government with Madam Merkelová and Brussels. The European Union is pushing our country back into a corner. It is clear that the land for superquotas is being prepared irresistibly. The highest decision-making power on asylum is to be taken over by the so-called Asylum Support Office. As is clear from its name, the aim is not to regulate asylum but to support it. Last week, the European Parliament, which largely approved this crazy idea, also gave this aim to the European Parliament, even with the consent of some Czech MEPs. We want these efforts to be blocked by our citizens in the referendum. Prime Minister Sobotka said that the Czech Republic will defend its permanent quotas in every way. You could easily confuse those words with his words from the autumn of last year when he claimed that the Czech Republic would use all the possibilities to reject quotas. He said them only shortly before he was deliberately overruled by the Council and thereby seriously threatened the Czech Republic. What is the real background, we have learned from Mr. Prime Minister's published private e-mails. State Secretary Prouza writes to Prime Minister Sobotk: "The prostor for negotiations under Sunday's agreement with Juncker was until yesterday and we decided not to use him, even though they were willing to accommodate us." The procedure is the same as last year's. Even now, citizens are about to be fooled, that everything is under control and that the government is fighting. Then it will be as if the surprise that it didn't work out again. It's not just the quotas. The Czech Republic is also threatened by the agreement with Turkey, which is due to introduce visa-free travel for Turkish citizens from 1 July. The introduction of visa-free relations with such a dangerous country, which in addition cooperates secretly with the Islamic State, is, according to many security experts, madness. Yet the government has taken this step. Despite the fact that both the European Affairs Committee and the House plenary adopted a resolution against visa-free travel. The Committee agreed on this - I quote: "The Committee calls on the Government to reject the introduction of visa-free travel with Turkey.' This position was confirmed by the House when it adopted a resolution in plenary - I quote: 'The Chamber of Deputies rejects the agreement of the Heads of Government of the Member States of the European Union concerning the abolition of the visa regime for Turkish citizens by the end of June 2016 at the latest'. Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka did not respect the House's resolution or the committee's resolution and voted at the meeting of the European Council for the approval of visa-free travel with Turkey. As you have already learned from the morning press conference, in view of the above, we were forced to file a criminal report at the Government's hearing on the commission of a criminal offence of general threat, a general threat of negligence and obstruction of the actions of an official person of negligence. It is clear that, as a result of the approval of the visa waiver agreement with Turkey and the compulsory redistribution mechanism of migrants, the interests of the Czech Republic and, in particular, the protection of the security of the Czech Republic have been damaged. In a situation where the Prime Minister did not respect the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and acted directly contrary to its resolution, it made it difficult to ensure security in the Czech Republic. He also violated the security of the Czech Republic when he actually signed a blank check for the influx of the currently unspecified number of persons from Turkey and others according to the redistribution mechanism. This significantly endangered the defence and internal security of the Czech Republic. I suggest we discuss this first item today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u9	Yes. Mr Kádner and Mrs Hnyková will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to follow up on my previous speakers who have spoken about the petition against immigration quotas. I would like to give priority to a new point at which the government will respond to one of the main demands of the 250 000 petition, namely the protection of the Czech borders. Therefore, I propose to include a new item entitled Information of the Government on the Protection of Czech Borders. The point I propose is to include today as the first or next item in today's meeting. Dawn with the Block against Islam has been demanding long-term border control since last summer. We have already held two seminars on this subject, which have resulted in some very important conclusions. First of all, it is a statement that the Czech Republic currently has neither capacity nor technology for long-term security of national borders. Police of the Czech Republic, which is primarily in charge of protection, carry out increased protection only at the expense of carrying out their duties in the outback. It is true that the army of the Czech Republic can help police with border control, but only in the short term. The primary task of the army is not to protect Czech borders. This is the primary task for the Police of the Czech Republic. We can certainly deploy an army for border control in the event of massive migration, just as they did in Hungary, Slovenia or Austria. However, this is not a long-term solution. According to the estimates we heard at our seminar, the army has been able to protect the border of the circus for six months. Then it interferes with her ability to intervene abroad, in the ability to train, or perhaps in the ability to help in natural disasters. Its ability to guard key objects, for example, is limited by setting up borders. Unsustainable situation where crisis events occur. Take a hypothetical scenario - an army deployed on counter-terrorism measures, into that spring flood and the border under the strain of mass migration. This scenario, which can easily occur, would set security forces at an unsustainable maximum. Our call for border control is not a call for fence construction, as some are trying to accuse us. On the contrary, 3,000 new border policemen are needed to protect the border. These police officers must have at their disposal modern technologies such as drones, radars, and others that distinguish immigrants from the fungus and that monitor movements across borders at a distance. There are also warehouses of mobile roadblocks in the background, which must be ready for use. This solution is not an experiment. This modern concept protects many risky borders around the world. The goal is definitely not to be concreted. The aim is to introduce intelligent protection of Czech borders, which will prepare the Czech Republic for the threat we are facing in real terms. The price of such a solution is estimated at approximately CZK 8 billion, including all major investments. I would therefore like to stress that no European solution to border control is working. All border control measures have been taken at national level, whether Hungary, Macedonia or Slovenia. We have to face up to border control the same way, because no one else will take care of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u11	Thank you. Mrs Hnyková and Mrs Němcová will speak after her.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to redesign the pre-position of paragraph 125. This is a proposal to issue a law on detention centres for illegal immigrants in foreign states, print 657. I propose that the law be firmly placed as the first point today. This is our bill to set up a detention facility outside the territory of the Czech Republic. The principle of the proposal is that the detention facilities for foreigners, which are now in the Czech Republic, should be established in foreign countries. We could move all illegal immigrants and immigrants detained in the Czech Republic who will be relocated from the Member States of the European Union on the basis of mandatory quotas. If you're asking where we should start such devices, I'll repeat it to you again. These are mainly places where illegal immigrants are flowing to us. These are the main three approaches to the European Union - Spanish, Italian and Greek. While Spain is managing the situation, Africa's immigration and the Middle East are mainly flowing through Italy. For the Italian journey, Libya appears as a natural centre, for the Greek road in northern Syria. The detention centre shall be set up on the ground on the basis of an international agreement to be concluded with the relevant State. All the specific operating conditions of the relevant centre will therefore be based on it. Very often, the reaction can be heard that these states are not interested in such agreements. The opposite is true. For example. for Syria, the tide of huge masses of inhabitants is a major problem. The Act envisages with the duty of the Office for the resettlement of illegal migrants to coordinate the procedure with other Member States of the European Union in setting up detention centres for the relocation of illegal migrants from the Czech Republic. We are therefore counting on the possibility of international cooperation in setting up these centres. This proposal creates room for migrants to stop flowing permanently to Europe and for all asylum procedures to be handled directly at the point where the problem arises. Ladies and gentlemen, the surrounding states of the European Union are adopting preventive legislative measures on immigration and we are retiring. All preventive measures will cost us far less money than subsequent firefighting, for which we will not be ready. If we continue to observe what our government is doing, it will only be a province of a Muslim state from the Czech Republic in a few years. Thank you for putting this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u13	Yes, thank you, and please Mrs Němcová. After that, I have an appointment with the President of the ODS's priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, last week I asked you to include a new point in our meeting called Position of the Government of the Czech Republic on the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic No. Of the species Gallus domesticus, not cut in pieces, presented in forms or packings of a content, by weight, not cut in pieces, presented in forms or packings of a content, by weight, not cut in pieces, presented in forms or packings of a content, by weight, not cut in pieces, presented in forms or packings of a content, by weight, not exceeding 10 kg: 3. 2016. In order to revive your memory, I would like to remind you that this is a resolution concerning migration, a resolution which, in some of your points - or which you have supported on all points, as it has been adopted, but in particular in this resolution, we reject the agreement of the Presidents of the governments of the Member States of the European Union, which concerns the abolition of the visa regime for Turkish citizens, while saying that those countries which are unable to fulfil their commitments and protect the external borders of the Schengen area should leave this area. This was the House's resolution, to which the Prime Minister responded in words, after he had been told medialy that the result had caught him off guard, the Prime Minister said: it is contrary to the government's position. The House's order, then. The House of Counter-government. I think the House, when it decides on something, should insist on its resolution or change it. Since no one is proposing a change to this resolution, I would ask the Government to explain why it does not intend to follow this mandate. I'd say that this thing is already developing today. Turkish President Erdogan announces that if Turkey is not granted visa-free travel by the end of June, his support for European Union aid will end with the smugglers who have stopped for a while, then he will release them to bring these people here again. Given the fact that we see other routes coming, so do we, even if we do not know how to imagine that the agreement with Turkey will help us protect the European Union, it will not do us any good. It will not protect her because the route that is going through Italy would eventually rely on negotiations with a broken Libya where no one has a partner. So Europe has to find some protection anyway. He cannot rely on his neighbors, and he must start promoting this protection. No matter who I listen to, from the Prime Minister to any of you, colleagues or colleagues, whether in newspapers, televisions, radios, everyone says: the protection of the external borders of the Schengen area is crucial. We've been saying that for a year, and nothing's happening. We in our resolution say that whoever does not protect the external border must leave Schengen. I'll remind you what's going on in Brenner. After all, Austria has come to this - because it is probably expecting the second path that will open through Italy, so Austria is building a fence there and ready to build it over the entire length of the border. In other words, fences are being built within the Schengen border. What we have proposed in our resolution - states that will not guarantee the rest of Europe's security cannot be in the Schengen area - so the Rakušan are already putting the fence between Italy and themselves, because they expect this wave. I think we should know from the government the answer to the question which of those 72 conditions, when it is said that Europe has given Turkey 72 conditions so that it can receive visa-free travel and other benefits that it has asked for, including those 3 billion. now and another 3 billion. EUR 160 billion by the end of 2018, i.e. approximately 160 billion. koruna, which of the 72 conditions Turkey has already fulfilled. Whether it was the more serious - it is said that half is already fulfilled - whether it was the easier ones or whether it was the harder ones. So as far as we are in this process and what the government says about it truly unacceptable, the unacceptable pressure, I don't want to just say the word blackmail from the Turkish side when it says: so far, to show good will, I, Turkey, show you that I can protect that line and stop the smugglers and not send people to you, but if you don't comply, I will raise those boundaries again. This isn't normal between partners who want to work together on some contractual basis for a long time. Therefore, I propose to include this point with this emphasis on our negotiations, either as the first point today or the first point tomorrow, on Wednesday, or the first point on Friday 22. 4. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u15	Thank you, too. Now, therefore, President Stanjura with priority rights, and after that, Mr Okamura will speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have two suggestions on the agenda. I hear very often that the opposition is hindering the negotiation of government bills, and it is often true. However, for point 32 of the Government's bill amending the conflict of interest law, this is not the case. When we were discussing the law on public procurement last month, especially colleagues from social democracy had many strong speeches here, virtually. with strong words that we are not yet, but in April, when the conflict of interest comes, we will show our fundamental face how we will deal with it, the conflict of interest, and we are not afraid of our coalition partner at all, no, we only have doubts whether it is constitutional in this law, but in the other law, we have no doubts there, we will propose it there and we will enforce it. [[14.30 hours]] Well, we're in the second week. Today we had the House Gremium, on which about 20 changes were proposed, this week even a variable week, and the presidents of coalition clubs forgot about this law. So I'm gonna go help them not to tell them that these government bills are just lying around for nothing. I propose that we place point 32 firmly on Friday after the already fixed points. This means that I am not crashing the concept of what the leaders of government clubs have not had, and in particular I will give my colleagues from social democracy enough space to present their principles on Friday, to justify and try to win a majority in the Chamber of Deputies for their proposals. The second point is - and this is a new point, which I would call the Prime Minister's information on the situation in the construction of transport infrastructure with regard to the EIA opinions. In recent weeks and months, we have repeatedly consulted the Minister of Transport, the Minister of the Environment and the Prime Minister to address the problem. We were assured that this was being handled. Then we found out that the Deputy Ministers had gone to Brussels at the most, that the ministers themselves were not there. And I got the result in my hand. And the result is surrender. The capitulation of the Czech Republic before the demands of the European Commission and DG Environment, when we actually introduce retroactivity, when we submit to the Brussels dictatorship, which tells us: You have valid EIA opinions, but we don't care, you can't do this. I'll show you a map of where the sections of the transport structures involved are marked. [[He's showing the map.]] I'm not gonna read them all because you're gonna charge me with obstruction, and we might be here by 7:00 p.m., and we wouldn't even be able to vote on an extension of the term. It has a disastrous impact on some regions. For example South Bohemia, 5 sections D3, 3 sections D4. If we take the key R35 communication in my opinion, there are de facto 2 sections prepared, and we will both not be able to compete because both the Opatovice-Times and the Times-Island section with a total length of 26 km does not have a valid EIA according to the European Commission. They're tens of buildings worth tens of billions of crowns. I think the Prime Minister has failed in this. Because other states are able to agree to something else when discussing other questions. I know which ministers these agendas belong to, and in my opinion, the ministers have not been able to resolve this. But then their supervisor comes in, that's the Prime Minister. There will be other summits, once again the European Commission will debate Turkey, and we will never say anything. So when, my dear colleagues from the government, your colleagues in the autumn regional elections and Senate elections say, "we will push through the construction of D3, D8, D6, R35, 1/11" in our region, we will call them "no, no, that is not at all," thanks to her colleagues in the government and we will not build any of this in the Chamber of Deputies in the near future." And I think we are ready to equip the Prime Minister with a strong position of the Chamber of Deputies so that he can reverse this pointless position in Brussels. And to make matters worse, besides Brussels, the Ministry of Environment claims music. For example, in our region of Moravian-Silesian region there are key communications on Třinecek 1/11. Minister Took a solemn knock there, I think a year ago, because he was lucky enough to be in office when it began to be built - and behold, ŘSD asked for a change in the implementation of the construction of Třenovice-Nebora. Indeed, whoever has ever driven Třinecek, the main road to Slovakia, knows that we cannot go there and we need those communications there, and the Ministry of the Environment will issue a critical negative opinion to verify the changes to the project. So luckily, this building has an EIA under the law 101/2000, so Brussels isn't ruining it there, it's ruining the Ministry of Environment. So if you look at the map, you'll find that only D1 can be de facto repaired in the coming years. Not that she doesn't need it. Minister Ťok nods his head, so I will read it to him: Znojmo - bypass - stage 1 does not have the EIA according to Brussels. Brno - He doesn't have Tomka's Square. Brno - He doesn't have frogweeds. D3 Powerful - He doesn't have a hawk. D3 Hodejovice-Threebonin doesn't have it. D3 Tøebonín-Cape doesn't have. D3 Kaplice-Navladla doesn't have it. This means, very often, when Czech politicians deal with Austrian politicians, they say "our priority is to connect the Czech Republic and Austria to the motorway network." Infallibly from České Budějovice including the bypass of České Budějovice towards the border not a single event according to Brussels has a valid EIA. If you look at South Moravia, now I'm gonna forget that they don't have valid principles of territorial development, that's another problem, so the situation is very similar. R35 bypassing Chrudimi, bypassing Opava, bypassing Krnov, bypassing Frýdek-Místek. And I could go on like this for at least 30 minutes. I ask you to include this point in order to include it as the first item tomorrow afternoon in order, if possible, to adopt a resolution which we will require the European Commission to withdraw this negative position so that the Prime Minister can defend himself with the strong support of the Chamber of Deputies, not only the government parties, but also the opposition parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u17	I could ask for the exact name of that point. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u18	The Prime Minister's opinion on the issue of transport infrastructure building in the light of the EIA opinion under the 1992 Law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u19	Minister, of course you have priority rights, so you can speak if you wish to apply it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to react briefly. First of all, I didn't twist my head because I doubted that the buildings had an opinion under the old law. I was shaking my head that it's not true that we can't do anything but fix D1, or modernize D1. We have here and we are preparing constructions under the law of 100 and we have it according to the new one. That means the transport infrastructure is going on. And while I'm here, I'd like to say, you know, throw the whole EIA problem, and Act 244 on this government is a bit of a forget-the- past. The fact that he could have dealt with this problem in the past has made a lot of arguments in this House, and I don't think it's necessary to exchange them. But if we correctly transpose the EIA directive into our law five years ago, we didn't have to solve this problem today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u21	Mr. Stanjura's right of priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u22	I'm not surprised, it's usually the previous governments' fault. So we didn't support the law when we voted on it. Remember the debate: if you don't support it, we won't draw. What did we critics of this law say? If you approve in this form, we won't be able to draw. No, no, no, it's gonna be different. You're haunting me. This is the result. The problem is clear. It's retroactivity. I think it's unacceptable pressure from Brussels, and I'm here to offer the help of the opposition. I said I wanted us to equip the Prime Minister, his ministers with a strong position. And a strong position also means how many Members vote in favour. I can't imagine Members and I don't know any of you, and I'm having this debate with many of you who wouldn't want us to push for what's true under our legislation to continue to apply. We're not talking about new constructions. That's where the law goes, that's okay. But I think this is Czech national interest. And he can't just shut up. There will be various decisions at European level, which we often do not like, and this pro-European government always says "in order to preserve European unity I have been in favour." So be it, let's make it a condition. We would not be the first state, and we would not be the last one to lay down conditions before any vote and support for another point. And I offer that you will have a strong position in the Chamber of Deputies. Because it doesn't work here - and we've never done a "worse, the better" policy, because even with that new law, I think many environmental activists are looking forward to reopening the EIA. [[14.40 hours]] And we can't even guess if it's two, three or five years late, but it's definitely gonna be big. It may not be the same on all construction sites, I agree with that, but we cannot proceed with the issue of European funds. And we have experience here from last term. There were many projects, and now I'm going to talk about the self-government that was going to get the money, not the ones that, according to the community, would be the most important for the community. And this way we can't just stand up to the transport infrastructure and say, well, we're gonna use the money for something. Those are the key structures. I understand that you can spend it or invest it somewhere else, but without D3, without D8, without R35, and that's wrong. We'd much rather give the money... And if I have good information, not only are we at risk of not getting European money for it, but I believe that the fundamental DG Environment claims that even if we build it on Czech money, they will say that it is contrary to European law and threaten to stop all other subsidy programs. That means, it's not like we're gonna give priority to the budget, we're gonna say, okay, maybe we're gonna agree, we're gonna rent it, we're gonna build it. It's not even possible. We have to change that in Brussels, or we'll never be able to build that infrastructure. And most of the time, we're told by states that have already conquered the infrastructure at a time when such conditions may not even have been. And now they're telling us how to do it. And if there's a consensus on that, and I assume and I'm sure that there is a consensus, then let's accept the resolution and try to reverse it, or really, what you have in the government's programming statement that you want to complete, then the next time the government can put in its programming period, because they still won't be finished.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u23	The Prime Minister's priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, I will be short because I do not want to delay the approval of the program and other important points. First of all, I would like to ask my dear colleague Stanjura not to lie. He did not lie therefore, virtually. He didn't lie in the sense of who goes to Brussels and who doesn't. I have been in Brussels several times on this matter, I can even tell you the specific dates, I have dealt with all the affected, as well as Minister Ťok, not only our deputy, the Prime Minister, acted there. And, yes, it is true that the pigsty - I'm sorry, forgive me for the word - which we inherited from those past governments about the transposition of European legislation, just the European Commission, has run out of patience. And yes, unfortunately, we are responding to this and we must respond. And it is not true, my colleague, through Mr President, that nothing can be done. It can be done because we were finally able to do what you have put off for ten years, so we saved CZK 120 billion, including transport projects under Act 100, which would otherwise not be possible to draw. And for that, we have a whole series of evidence, including written evidence. So the old EIA, 20 years old, is really a problem, but if we didn't have the chance to build and also drain money for the EIA under the law of 100, which is ten years old, and that's what we did because of the transposition, we saved hundreds of projects, traffic and others, with this old, but not so old EIA. There the European Commission originally said that we will repeat as the Czech Republic all the EIAs. So please don't lie, the situation is different, it's not easy. We are doing everything we can to succeed, including all the crisis regimes, but you are really confusing the public with this. I understand from the opposition's point of view that it's handy, but it's really believable to say it from some positions, from people who had this in their own competence, didn't do anything about it, passed it on, let it go, and now the thief is really screaming through the system Catch the thief!, criticizing us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u25	President Laudát, then President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u26	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if you recall, I have unsuccessfully proposed the inclusion of this point twice or three times. In order to quantify it or to calculate it financially, in the official materials of the Ministry of Transport, which I had the last, because the amount increased continuously, it was CZK 90 billion, these are the buildings under attack, at the proposed prices, then they talked about 131. I did my own analysis on my own data, and I arrived at a course because I had EUR 25 CZK per euro, up to 245 billion. There's now 261 billion in the materials, because there's still more water. Constructions on the water. I just want to point out that we supported the EIA law, where Minister Brabec's amendment was, because the TOP 09 does not see as a problem the law of its own that is now in force, but the way it is discussed. I asked for it some time ago, and for that I thank all three ministries concerned, which is for local development, transport and the environment, that they responded within legal deadlines and sent materials to the issue. The Minister also made a three-page list of what the Ministry of Environment has been trying to do in the matter up to the recent past. Unfortunately, there were also some very unfortunate e-mails, e-mails between some of the representatives of the Ministry of Environment and people from Brussels, which made the situation very difficult. I think it is such a fatal mess, which in the history of not only Czech but also Czechoslovak transport engineering simply has no equivalent. And in no way did the Prime Minister try to negotiate an exception in Brussels on this matter. The Ministry of the Environment now, under the current government, has not acted happily, even I think very unhappyly, and I do not hear anywhere that one single head has fallen or has been pointed out that it is also personally responsible. I don't know what else has to happen to get someone to think of it as a completely critical situation. Not today, but I'm just saying, in a variable week, I'm going to propose that we place a point in the House, and we're going to insist on it a lot, the environmental situation. The chairman of the club ANO Faltýnek has proposed a re-admission of paragraph 17, House press 501. I don't know how much longer he's gonna be hiding. You know this is an environmental law. Just how long it's gonna take to delay. It was announced that there would be a number of comments, so in any case it would not be a simple law. When the proposal was made here last week for a solid inclusion for today, the Minister of the Environment had to know that he was going to the United States tomorrow for an official visit, if I'm not mistaken, so he wouldn't be here, there wasn't a word to say. So once again, the program becomes a tearing calendar. Of course, we will support the ODS proposal just because I've tried twice here. I am fascinated in this context, I am fascinated by the fact that even the media is not interested in this fatal problem, even with the display of a particular resort and particular people. I'd add a third fatal problem to that. Just because President Zeman approached an analogy, you must remember the Bémův Olympics in the Czech Republic in Prague. Journalists went to press conferences, he told them instead of the real problems of Prague, and what needs to be solved, so he told them about the Olympics, they all wrote about the Olympics, and this way, with forgiveness, he led people by the nose for about two or three years. With the fact that it still cost a lot of money. Everyone knows that the Danube-Odra-Labe channel is nonsense that it is a kind of parallel to this Prague Olympics, but we will still be dealing with it. And the government interrupted that point again yesterday to make a unique nature, which, without a doubt, is at least the Natura, if no longer the Slavic Islands, so it simply threatens to draw from the entire Operational Programme Environment. It doesn't have to be about seven billion. You're just gamblers. That's all it is. [[14.50 hours]] And I beg you very much, if no longer, of course, the YES movement - if the EIA does not pass today, you will really support the inclusion of the environmental situation point in that May. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u27	Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u28	So I read the minutes from the official meetings in Brussels, and there was always the Deputy Minister. If the Minister was there, I'm sorry, there's no reason not to believe him. However, the result is the same. Zero, Minister. And there's no way you can cover that up by seducing previous governments. We knew the law wasn't good. I say every day without the new EIA has been a good day. And unlike my colleagues at TOP 09, I don't think the new law is a good thing at all. You'll see when it starts to apply what it will do in the length of preparation. A disaster. But we'll see about that. Now we're talking about something else. About Brusel forcing retroactivity. And we what? How did we fight? What did we say to Brusel? What did we trade it for or not trade it for? Nothing! Nothing really. And that's a disaster. Not that DG Environment thinks so, so be it, it won't be any different. And I don't know how many times you've been there, nice ministers, but the result is zero! A complete surrender. I'll get your answers to the interpelations: don't worry, a few months late. And those few months have passed. And in the meantime, nothing. And by the way, I quote the dissenting opinion of the Ministry on the change of construction, which is crucial for our region. So, not only Brussels, but also your office, Minister through the President, is holding it back. Key constructions. Go through the main move to Slovakia in the direction of Zilina and you will understand that the buildings have been started and that they are being made. And if we're still making trouble for ourselves... And there's the EIA according to 101, not 1992. I have the dissenting position here, I'm willing to hand it over to you because people from my constituency have turned to me to mention it here. But I'm going back to the big one. I think there's still something we can do. I'm sure the Prime Minister will have a tough meeting at the European Council. And I think we're able to trade this, like other countries, for consent to something else. We look like there is no problem in Brussels other than the EIA in the Czech Republic, or. implementation of the driving licence directive. And every day, at every point, every second point we hear, we have to, we have to, we have to, or... They're still threatening us. When are we gonna say enough? We always say that we are the European Union. I agree with that. Then let's have our opinion too! Not just the opinion of the others. And that's the government's job. And it's this government's job. If it stays the way it is, none of you will take responsibility that the transport infrastructure will not be built. And it won't be because we didn't implement the wrong law three years earlier. Well, the problem would be another government. I hear that very often from the ministers: I inherited the problem. But every minister inherits a problem. Who wouldn't want to join the office where everything works, everything's settled, just giving out interviews and editing tapes? Well, that's what everybody wants. I understand that. But never in any parliamentary term will it be exactly what the government or the minister will plan to do. Completely logical. So stop making excuses. It was your proposal for a novel, Mr. Environment Minister, that caused this. And on that 120 billion, I'll give you a written interview and look forward to it. Because in the last two years, listening to individual members of the government, we've probably saved a trillion crowns. He saved 100, Madam Secretary 100, Minister 120. That's what we saved! And if we add it up, it's more than we've drawn, isn't it? Even in the years you haven't been to the government. So, nice rescuers, save our transport infrastructure. Save jobs for companies in the construction industry. And all I want... I don't suggest calling off the minister or criticizing the minister. I propose a strong resolution by the Chamber of Deputies, which you can wave and say to those officials and politicians in Brusel: and if you want something from us, there will be nothing without it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u29	Mr Okamura has the floor now, and Mr Kučera will speak after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u30	dáma and gentlemen, please place an extraordinary point on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies, which is called the ČSSD, and its refusal to respect the judgment in the People's House case. [[The noise in the hall.]] I suggest you put this point first in order for the House meeting tonight. This is a completely fundamental topic which should not be left unnoticed by the House as guarantor and creator of the legal system of the Czech Republic. Parliamentary legislative party of the ČSSD refused to respect the judgment and to pay its debt of 337 million by the mouth of its President and the Czech Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. Crowns. It must be said that the entire dispute is not a private dispute, and its course and the end point to a miserable state of the political and legal system in the Czech Republic. If the House here was discussing an emergency meeting from the point of view of subsidies and theft of the donation case of the Chapi Nest, then please and I ask the legislator to address an unprecedented case of the People's House case. In the first stage of the fight for the People's House the state in the hands of the ODS under the leadership of the Minister of Finance of the ODS Kočárník defended the legitimate claims of the ČSSD on the People's House. And after an incredibly long 16 years, the court ruled, that is another gigantic disgrace to the judicial system, our legislation and our particular courts. In conclusion, the CSSD refused to respect the final verdict of the court, even publicly through the mouth of its chairman. This is an incredible contempt for the legal system, which is, truth, imperfect and erring, but again it is the responsibility of both the current government majority of the Chamber of Deputies, i.e. ČSSD, the movement YES and KDU-ČSL, and the responsibility of all the existing governments of the Czech Republic. Prime Minister Sobotka's arguments that the ČSSD doesn't have money, that it will destroy them, or that Altner's lawyer will put money away are entirely from another planet, a little boy who doesn't understand the adult world. Altner has definitely won the trial, and whatever we can think of his right to claim, it's the final verdict. And if Mr. Altner throws money into a rock or has it in Switzerland, it's his personal choice. One thing is essential for us and for citizens: how can the state enforce the execution of often more unfair judgments by citizens from now on, when the Prime Minister of this country openly refuses to comply with the decision of the court and to pay the debts of the government party. The Prime Minister is crying that payment would ruin his party, the ČSSD. Does the Prime Minister know how many people in this country have been ruined and destroyed by hundreds of thousands of crazy and bad judgments and executions? The laws in this country apply to everyone. We are all also subject to Czech jurisdiction. If the Prime Minister here feels that justice is working badly, it is a legitimate opinion. But the solution is not that, in the case of one particular case, it will ignore the judicial power, but that if we have doubts about its relevance, the only solution is to discuss a general system solution, e.g. establish a time-limited mandate of judges, which they would have to defend after a certain period of time, and also take personal and substantive responsibility for the error of judgments, which would certainly have reflected both in improving the quality of work. These are the proposals of our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy - the SPD, which we are here in vain trying to enforce against all of you. This, however, is once again completely within the competence of the government parties. Governments and parliament. If Parliament passes through this case of silence, then we will give the citizens a very bad signal that the judgments apply only to the unelected. Most citizens have this feeling, and I think it's pure reality. It's up to us in the House to start doing something about this undemocratic state. Democracy does not mean that every four years I go to the polls, but most importantly that I call in our state of justice and it is really enforceable. So once again, I ask you to include this extraordinary point, and I suggest you put this point first in order for today's meeting due to its extraordinary topicality and extraordinary importance. Thank you in advance for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u31	I beg Mr Kučera and Mrs Černochová will be prepared after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u32	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to ask you for a firm inclusion of House press No. 433 paragraph 102, i.e. amendments to Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on business business, and some other laws, amendments to the Trade Business Act. In the last ten years, a number of important steps have been taken to simplify business and eliminate unnecessary administration. [[It's busy in the hall. The President is asking for peace.]] One free trade was introduced, which replaced the existing dozens of free trades. Thus, the entrepreneur no longer has to report any expansion of activities in the scope of free trade. Just one announcement and one fee. One contact point was introduced at the trade offices, which will serve the entrepreneur in the notification to the financial office, social security administration, health insurance companies and the employment office. The concept of a single collection point was prepared in such a way that entrepreneurs would pay income tax, social insurance and health insurance once for employees, and only one report for this one payment and would be subject to one check instead of at least three reports and three checks against the tax office, social security administration and all the health insurance companies of its employees. However, this single collection point system has not yet been implemented by the current government, yet it has already been part of the Czech legal order. Similarly to the administrative correspondence with the state authorities and in the report on income tax, social insurance and health insurance, it is certainly appropriate to ease the Czech economy in the administrative burden resulting from the many different types of checks to which the Czech entrepreneur is subject. This is what House Press No. 433, which proposes the merger of control activities for employers with fewer than ten employees and for entrepreneurs without employees. I mean, the smallest and smallest companies. For such employees, all types of control activities would be carried out by the Trader's Office. This would mean a significant reduction in the administrative burden in business, but also a significant reduction in the rights to state budget expenditure, since the control carried out so far by several different employees of more than 20 different control bodies would be carried out by one professional within his normal control activity. This merged control activity would not concern tax collection, social insurance and health insurance. If the government states in its opinion that the exercise of control requires the expertise of the inspection staff and therefore cannot be entrusted to the workers of the trade offices, it should be stressed that the normal trader also does not have the possibility of having detailed knowledge of all the categories of control activities. Yet he must learn them himself. That is why it is appropriate to carry out checks on such a businessman by a businessman in order to balance the forces - expressed by a shortcut. This will simply prevent the occasional bullying approach of professional control authorities to small businessmen. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that you also care that unnecessary administration and obstacles prevent small businessmen from doing their job, you will support the inclusion of the amendment of the trade law which removes these obstacles on the House's agenda, allowing it to be properly discussed in the House. [[no]] First of all, I would like to place this point either on Wednesday after the last point of third reading, or second on Wednesday after the already fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u33	Yes, thank you. Mrs Černochová and then Mr Mr Zavadil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u34	Thank you, Mr President, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I originally had two proposals to change the program. One dealt with the fact that the proposal came out of the Green Paper, including the discussion of the opinion of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on a European directive restricting the legal holders of arms. I am glad that there was an agreement on the chemicals that the Civil Democratic Party supported, and that we will discuss this point tomorrow afternoon. My second proposal, which I am reading, is a proposal that seemed more or less appropriate to me and useful to you Members who have been following the Fayad case in recent weeks, respectively. Five of the kidnapped Čech in Lebanon. You may have noticed last week that we read again in the paper that the Minister of Defense, Stropnický, who had this case examined by his department, did not find anything serious about this case. I suppose we might get to know some of the details later on in the Permanent Committee on Military Intelligence. But you who are not members of this committee cannot go there. And I think that after those hours of discussion, even after what we went through as the Czech Republic, what a disgrace the Minister of Defence has caused not only in the Czech Republic but also in the international field, he should come before us and explain to us the results of this control. It was all the more surprising for me when I read in the paper yesterday that the government of the Czech Republic, which proposes to grant or lend general degrees to the president, acted. In addition to a number of nominees, Colonel Beroun was among other things, who, although proposed by Mr. Defense Minister Stropnický, for a mysterious reason the government did not recommend him to the President. I don't think this way is happy. I personally respect Colonel Beroun, I consider him a good director of Military Intelligence. And I really don't know what led to this government of the Czech Republic. I don't know what led to the Minister of Defense of the Stropnický. If he wanted to embarrass Mr. Beroun, discredit him by putting the nomination there. I find this absolutely inappropriate, and I think the Minister of Defence lacks some social empathy. Because if he decides in this way to discuss a matter that is not prepared within a government coalition, I consider it defensive to Mr Beroun and undignified. So for all the reasons I have said, I would like to propose a point called Information of the Minister of Defence on the results of the investigation into the case of five of the abducted Čech in Lebanon. And I would like to propose this point of inclusion today after the fixed points, on Wednesday as the first point after the fixed points and on Friday as the first point after the fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u35	Thank you, too. Mr Zavadil, please. After that, Mr Sklenák, who is the last performer so far, will perform. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u36	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, Mr Government, I would like to propose that for tomorrow, which is Wednesday, 20 April, a government bill amending Law No. 61/1988 Coll., on Mining Activities, Explosives and the State Mining Administration, as amended, and Act No. 83/2013 Coll., on the labelling and traceability of explosives for civil use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u37	Can I at least ask for a point number or a print number? [[Member Sklenák states: paragraph 56.]] Point 56, thank you. Mr. Sklenák, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u38	Thank you for the floor. One thing is that I would like to veto the inclusion of all the new points that have been proposed on behalf of two social democracy MPs and YES 2011. And the second proposal concerns a variable week where I propose on Wednesday, May 4, to include the first two points in the third reading of pension insurance laws. It's point 167 and then point 166.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u39	Yes, thank you. I'm going to ask if everyone who applied for the agenda had the chance to perform. That's right. First, I have an appointment from Mr Laudát, he wishes to take advantage of... He's downloading it now. In that case, only the preferential right of the Chairman of the ODS Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u40	I have to say, Roman Sklenák is going to be in a line of people who don't want to deal with the EIA. I respect that, but I'm really looking forward to the regional election campaign. But I want to say something else. Here was the proposal that, in a variable week before the anti-smoking law was discussed, we should include two other laws that are not completely simple and trivial. The way I understand it, the government coalition doesn't want to discuss the anti-smoking law, and I'm in. It's not a criticism. It's a compliment. But let's just say it straight. There's 220 votes in that bill. That's just enough time for us to use the five hours set aside for third reading in one day with this. The moment we put two more points in there, it's almost certain that if we even start discussing this anti-smoking law, we won't be able to make it. And I think that voting on amendments in different days is the worst thing we could do. So it's okay. If you include it, I will definitely propose tomorrow or any other day of elimination of the anti-smoking, because there is really no point in discussing and voting on amendments in several different days. That would only increase the chaos that awaits the negotiation of this law and the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u41	Even President Sklenák with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u42	I cannot take Mr Stanjur or anyone else's view of the interpretation of the reasons for the individual proposals, but the real reason I made the proposal is that the two prints are very important to social democracy. Just to remind you, the one thing that empowers the government to valorize pensions is more than the law allows. The other makes it possible for the elderly from deep down to retire prematurely. And the effectiveness of both standards is set at 1. 8. So when you project a legislative process, it is really necessary that the press be discussed at this meeting at third reading. And a variable week is the last option. That's the motivation of my proposal, and please don't interpret it any other way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u43	Mr. Laudat.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just want to comment on this, I don't think it was flat-rate that two clubs would reject the inclusion of all new points. I don't remember the last time this happened. You're probably already worried that some of your MPs would, in the face of the trouble that goes around the law, say in short, EIA evolves, I just want to point out that Zbyněk Stanjura here has already said it, this also applies to projects without European money, this applies to everyone. And I'm going to add if you realize that this concerns, for example, water structures. There's always talk of transport infrastructure. So the Minister of the Environment should be interested. I requested official information from the three resorts. Minister Brabec responded very extensively to the oral question, yet he answered me. Reading in the materials and trying to solve it are very naive and very impassable so far. There is a threat of collapse of the Traffic Operational Program. And it is the last, so far, according to the existing facts, when we will receive funding from Brussels for the construction of transport infrastructure. But I just want to point out that it can even hit regional investments that have a bad EIA, like municipal waste incinerators, it can hit sewage treatment plants. For example, the waterworks of Nové Heřmina are also mentioned. And don't think that Brusel will pass with the complementary EIA. And unfortunately, President Zeman has been told that this is Brusel' fault, not this country or this government, as is his custom. I think that if not today, because you've brought it up, please, at least in May, let the item be discussed so that the Members can at least begin to deal with this and say an opinion about it, because this is really one of the biggest troubles that has been going on here lately. If you want to valorize your pension, come up with a specific proposal and we'll support it. Do not leave a flat-rate mandate before the election. Come and we'll help the elderly in the '90s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u45	If there are no more applications, we will vote. First of all, we would vote on a proposal on which the House Grémium agreed. I propose a vote with one vote if there is no objection. I do not see any objections, in which case I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees with the proposal from the Gremium. Who's against it? The vote has number 197, registered 161, for 147, versus 2. The motion was accepted. Mr Lank proposed a new point, which means he was vetoed. Mr Faltýnek proposed a solid inclusion of six points. I'll ask if we can vote at once. [[Mr. Faltynek disagrees.]] No. So one step at a time. Okay. In that case, this is a fixed classification of points on Wednesday 4. 5th from 14.30 in that order. First of all, we're going to vote for the first point to be... I'll check you all out. A new registration, please. We will vote that first point from 14.30 on Wednesday 4. 5th place point 57. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. 57 is a criminal code, print 588. Who's against it? The vote has number 198, registered is 156, for 84, versus 30. This proposal was adopted. As a second point, we would rank paragraph 58, which is the Civil Code, the Government Bill, the Press 642. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote is 199, registered 155, for 82, versus 36. The motion was accepted. As the third point of the Government's draft law on the use of funds from property criminal sanctions, paragraph 59, press 650. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote is number 200, registered 155, for 84, against 18. The motion was accepted. As a fourth point, we would be placing a government motion on the victims of crimes, paragraph 60, print 658. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 201, registered 157, for 85, against 15. The motion was accepted. As the fifth point in paragraph 61, government bill, criminal code, press 753. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote is 202, registered 157, for 85, up to 31. The motion was accepted. And as the sixth point in point 17, the government's draft law on conservation of nature and landscape, print 501 in second reading. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote is number 203, registered 157, for 82, versus 34. This proposal was adopted. These were all the points proposed by President Faltýnek. [[15.20 hours]] President Mihola, paragraph 66, press 712, which is vintage, today on fixed points. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has number 204, registered 157, for 87, against 18. The motion was accepted. Mrs Havlová wishes paragraph 119, print 621, i.e. Act on the referendum on EU immigration quotas, to be the first item on today's agenda. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has 205, registered is 157, for 9, versus 87. The motion was not accepted. Mr Kádner has proposed a new point, which is therefore vetoed. Mrs Hnyková wishes to see paragraph 125, which is the law on detention centres for illegal immigrants in foreign countries, the press number is 657, to discuss today as the first point. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 206, registered 157, for 10, against 90. The motion was not accepted. Mrs Němcová proposed a new point, so there was a veto, therefore unvoteable. President Stanjura proposed one new point, which was the Prime Minister's position on the issue of building transport infrastructure, so that the veto applies there, and the latter was a firm inclusion of point 32, which is a conflict of interest, on this Friday after the fixed points. That's a voteable one. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote is number 207, registered is 157, for 41, versus 59. The motion was not accepted. I forgot to say that the Prime Minister is voting with card number 17, so I'm doing it now. Then, Mr Okamura, that was a new point, so it's a veto. Mr Kučera proposed paragraph 102, press 433, which is the amendment to the Trade Business Act, and there, alternatively, on Wednesday, meant tomorrow, as the first point after the third reading, and if it does not pass, the first point after the fixed points. Isn't that right, Mr. Ambassador? Yes. So first, we're going to vote on tomorrow's inclusion as the first item after the third reading. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote is number 208, registered 157, for 36, versus 66. This proposal has not been adopted. So we're going to continue with the second alternative, that is, we're going to put it on the midpoint after the fixed points. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote is 209, registered is 157, for 34, versus 70. This proposal has not been adopted. Mrs Černochová has proposed a new point, so there is a veto. Mr Zavadil - paragraph 56, these were explosives, if I am not mistaken, to rank on Wednesday, that is, tomorrow after fixed points. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote has number 210, registered is 157, for 82, against 2. This proposal was adopted. And the last proposal that has been made here, this is Mr Sklenák, in order to include two third readings first and second points on Wednesday 4 May, paragraph 167 and paragraph 166. I'm going to ask if we can vote with one vote or...? Especially, okay. In that case, we will vote on that at 4. 5. insert item 167 as the first item. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote has number 211, registered is 157, for 116, against 33. This proposal was adopted. And the second point would be point 166. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote is 212... [[The right responds from the footage of applause and whistling.]] I'm begging you to turn off the video or whatever's going on here. Thank you. It's registered at 157, for 114, against 31. This proposal was adopted. I believe that we have dealt with all the proposals that have fallen, which means that we have resolved the agenda of the meeting and we can address individual points. Before we proceed to discuss the proposals returned to the Senate, I propose that, at the request of the President of the Senate, we allow Senators Jiří Čunek, Petr Gawlas, Jiří Oberfalzer, Jiří Šesták, Radek Martínek and Jaromír Strnad to speak. The information on the amendment has been distributed to you in your mail, and I ask who agrees with the speech of the appointed senators. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote has number 213, registered is 156, for 153, against no one. This proposal was adopted. We'll proceed with point two, and I'll hand over the meeting proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-19-ps2013-044-05-000-000.u46	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Let's continue with the point.
