ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-008-205.u1	205. Proposal for the presence of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in foreign operations in 2017 and 2018 with a view to 2019 /house print 786/ The material will be introduced gradually by Minister of Defence Martin Stropnickýý and Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek. I ask you first, Minister, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-008-205.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you, together with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, a proposal for approval on the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in foreign operations in 2017 and 2018, with a view to 2019, which was approved by the Government on 18 April of this year by resolution No. 339.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-008-205.u3	I will ask you, Minister, not to shout, I will calm my colleagues and colleagues in the Chamber to keep them quiet and to understand what you are saying. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-008-205.u4	Thank you. I didn't mean it personally. The submitted material was processed on the basis of the need to approve a two-year mandate for 2017 and 2018 for the involvement of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in foreign operations. The mandate for 2015-2016 expires on 31 December this year. The material is based on the current foreign policy and security priorities of the Czech Republic. It responds to the current security situation in the world and reflects the allied commitments of the Czech Republic within NATO and the EU. The main part of the material is information about operations and crisis situations in which we propose the operation of the armed forces of the Czech Republic in the next two years. Each particular operation is also evaluated from a political-security point of view. The material also complements information about the current involvement of our armed forces in the country or operation. Our priorities to which the submitted material corresponds are: contributions to collective defence mechanisms, namely involvement in NATO's rapid response forces, so-called. NRF, and continued military activity in Afghanistan. And thirdly involved in EU and UN missions in Mali. It is therefore proposed to continue operations in all operations in which we are now involved. According to current needs, the proposed numbers of deployed soldiers are then adjusted. The involvement in the new operations is solved by separate materials submitted to the government and Parliament of the Czech Republic, especially due to different requirements for the date of their launch. The fourth priority of the government for foreign operations is to increase the contribution of the Czech Republic in the fight against DAEŠ. In this case, a separate mandate for the operation of the aviation advisory team in Iraq has already been approved by the government and both chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic. In response to Parliament's position in approving the previous two-year mandate, we do not present the NRF for a decision, so we do not ask for a mandate, but only inform about the devolvement of these units. In 2017 it will be up to 810 people and in 2018 to 380 people. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 43 A separate mandate has been submitted for approval. And now a few words on the proposed deployments in major operations. We consider our further action in Afghanistan essential. The Afghan party is already fully responsible for ensuring security in the country, but its armed forces are unable to act effectively against Taliban forces and we need to continue supporting them. Above all, we will be involved in training the crews of helicopters, which we have been involved in for a long time. Air support, whether combat or logistical, is one of the necessary capabilities of the Afghan army to ensure the country's security, at the same time one of its main weaknesses, and the removal of this deficiency requires long-term training of Afghan personnel. In the case of the EU Mali training mission, this is the only organic unit in the European operation. The importance of this unit confirms the successful repel of the armed attack on the Mission Headquarters in March 2016. Mali is one of the Sahel countries whose stability is reflected in the security situation in Europe, including the Czech Republic, in the context of migration and possible terrorism. The UN mission MINUSMA, in which we have been working as a special force group in the Dutch contingent since May of this year, is also trying to consolidate this country. We want to be involved in this operation in the next few years. Therefore, within the framework of the new system of force offers, we have offered a military contribution to the United Nations in the form of an reinforced company for 2017 and 2018. Once the UN has been asked to provide this unit and we agree to this, we will submit a separate mandate for approval. The MFO mission is perceived by both the Egyptian and Israeli parties as an indispensable element for verifying compliance with peace agreements and strengthening mutual trust in Sinai, especially at the moment when the aggravated security situation in Sinai and the increasingly assertive action of Islamist groups lead to greater deployment of Egyptian soldiers and heavy weapons in the region. The deterioration of the security situation places greater demands on air transport in the field of operation of the mission. The operation of our air force becomes crucial for the operation of the MFO. [[14.40 hours]] Our continuation of the ALTHEA mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Joint Enterprise operation in Kosovo in the proposed numbers is militaryly symbolic. It is of considerable political importance, however, since the countries of the Western Balkans are among the priorities of the Czech Republic's foreign policy and it is in our interest to continue to contribute to the stabilisation of the Balkans. The estimated amount of funds related to the proposed foreign operations amounts to approximately CZK 1.16 billion in 2017 and CZK 1.12 billion in 2018. We are not included in these amounts in any NRF operations and use of the UNPCRS contribution. These are the U.N. Emergency units that will be covered outside the Ministry of Defense's budget. As regards the legal aspect of the mandate, all proposed foreign operations are in accordance with international law. I conclude that this material is in line with the obligations arising from the membership of the Czech Republic in international organizations, whether NATO, the EU or the UN, from the security strategy of the Czech Republic, with the defence strategy of the Czech Republic and our foreign policy and security priorities. The proposed scope of operations in foreign operations is an expression of the willingness and readiness of the Czech Republic to continue to actively engage in international security. This makes the Czech Republic a responsible and respected international partner. I therefore ask the Chamber of Deputies to approve the material presented, and thank you, colleagues, for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-008-205.u5	Thank you, Minister. The House Press discussed the Defence Committee, whose resolution was delivered as House Press 786/1. I now ask that the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Jana Černochová, take the floor and inform us of the committee's deliberations and present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-008-205.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. You just announced that, in addition to the Minister of Defence's performance, we can also look forward to the performance of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I want to ask where the Minister of Foreign Affairs is. I also want to ask where the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic is, as well as I want to ask where the Minister of the Interior of the Czech Republic is. If the deployment of soldiers into foreign operations is a key document which this government, which is committed to two years in number, as the Minister has already said here in excess of a thousand every year, so if our leading government representatives, such as the Prime Minister, such as the Minister of Interior and Foreign Affairs, do not care, it really has the ability to tell how the government of the Czech Republic approaches the Ministry of Defence. And I'm sorry for Secretary of Defense Stropnický for having to sit in that government with these coalition partners.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-008-205.u7	I just have another question, if I may answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-008-205.u8	I would like to ask, Mr Vice-President, of course I can formally propose a suspension of this point. The soldiers will take it away again. The Secretary of Defense, Stropnický, who sits here, will take it away again. I ask the presidents of the relevant coalition clubs to ensure the presence of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of the Interior, or the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, so that we can discuss this. It really is inappropriate, and it seems to me that you have no respect for the fact that we are discussing such an essential document here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-008-205.u9	I would like to clarify your question, which you have asked. Minister Zaorálek is on a foreign trip and the Prime Minister is at a meeting in Brussels.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-008-205.u10	And the Home Secretary?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-008-205.u11	I can't answer that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-008-205.u12	You know, I think we know this point for two weeks that it will be included for today at this hour. And if the real leaders of our government are indifferent to this deployment of our soldiers, then I really have a major problem with that. But since I don't even want to extend the wait for whether or not we approve this mandate, I'm just gonna say it here and not suggest it, because of the soldiers, I'm not gonna propose a procedural proposal. But it really is absolutely awful for the government to treat our army in this way. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the content of the material presented, I would like to refer to what has been said here, because I think that the information contained in the speech by the Minister of Defence has been exhaustive. As rapporteur for this material, I would first of all like to introduce you to the resolution of the Defence Committee No 158 of its 30th meeting of 27 April 2016. On the mandate itself and on the further context, I will then make a brief statement for myself in the general debate to which I am declaring myself. Now, then, on the resolution of the Defence Committee, which was distributed as House press 786/1. Committee on Defence of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening performance of Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický, Chief of Staff of the Army of the Czech Republic, Lieutenant General . Josef Bečvář, MP Mgr Jana Černochová and, first of all, after the debate recommends - in addition, the Lieutenant General has already become an army general, but we discussed this before it happened, so please adjust the resolution to be correct in view of the rank that the Chief of Staff has. I. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that in individual missions - which are mentioned under points 1.1 and 1.12 and which I will only refer to here at the moment, I will only read them in a detailed debate. 2. He notes, again in brief, the allocation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence to the forces of NATO's rapid response and the allocation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence to the system of preparedness for UN peacekeeping operations. 3. He asks the Government to inform the Chamber of Deputies about the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in foreign operations in 2017, by 30 June 2018 at the latest, and about the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in foreign operations in 2018 by 30 June 2019. The Committee also instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and asks the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention at the moment. And as I have announced, I am reporting to the general debate and then in a detailed reading of the resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-008-205.u13	Thank you. I am therefore opening a general debate, and I will give you the floor, rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-008-205.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I do not want to delay and describe again what the proposal contains. The ODS and I have historically no problem with the content, with the activities of our army abroad in favour of allied efforts. I welcome the fact that we are still active in Afghanistan, although I am convinced, perhaps this will also be the subject of the Warsaw Summit, that the Alliance as a whole should be more active. Just because Afghánec fear for their lives after the withdrawal of foreign forces make a significant contribution to the current refugee wave. I presume that Afghanistan will be discussed shortly at the NATO Summit in Warsaw. In this context, I also raised the question on the Defence Committee, what can be expected the position of the Czech Republic and the Alliance on Afghanistan in the coming years, whether the withdrawal will be completed or if there is another plan. As you know, our army has worked in the past in various missions in Afghanistan, where we tried to help create either a reconstruction team or various medical teams, to help restore Afghanistan. Unfortunately, the situation has deteriorated in such a way that the reconstruction teams are no longer there and the whole development has moved somewhere else. Of course, our interest should be to participate once again in the reconstruction of this country and not only to have soldiers who somehow monitor the situation in the context of peacekeeping operations. That's not enough. [[14.50 hours]] A few months ago, I had the opportunity to visit our troops in Sinai for a day with colleagues from the Defense Committee. I would like to appreciate all those who work there in difficult conditions. This mission was mentioned by the Minister of Defence. It is an MFO mission where, as you know, they have had to move from the north to the south in recent months because the security environment has deteriorated, and it is certainly heard by both the Minister and we, members of the Defence Committee, that the very commitment of our 25 soldiers, pilots and rearguards really appreciates our foreign partners. I am aware that extremist and terrorist organizations such as the so-called. The Islamic state is being metastasized and metastasized. And, of course, one of the easy targets will be African countries, whether those in the north, now in chaos, and those in sub-Saharan Africa. That's why I think it's right that we continue the operation on Mali. It is logical and correct that we are involved in the NATO or EU contingency groups, but I am concerned that we are renegotiating the mandate here over a year and a half after that time and we have almost not moved in the debate over the adequacy of the constitutional framework in relation to the flexibility needs for deployment. And I will mention it again - for this reason, I am very sorry that the Prime Minister is not here. And the torso of ministers behind my back does not really make me feel that this government would have any will to adjust this flexibility so that we can actually assure the citizens of the Czech Republic that if something happens to them abroad, we will be able to send soldiers there for a covert operation in a shorter time than in the normal procedural procedure by both chambers of Parliament. Likewise, it will not be public information, unless it is released again from the Security Council of the State or the Government of the Czech Republic. You will recall that during the last approval of the two-year mandate of the military missions for last year and this year at the end of October 2014, we had a rather urgent debate here about the fact that it is not possible for this mandate to be approved mainly as a blank check for sending soldiers into unspecified operations in unspecified numbers and times. In this context, we have then approved my proposed accompanying resolution, in which we asked the Constitutional Committee and the Legislative Council of the Government for an assessment of the situation and for an assessment of the consistency or non-compliance of the legal framework for authorising the posting of soldiers abroad with practical needs. There was also legitimate expectation that the Ministry of Defence itself, or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, would come up with some concrete proposal for a solution that would actively promote. However, although there has been some fundamental discussion after my statements on this matter - I am glad that at least the President of the Constitutional Legal Committee, Mr Tejc, is sitting here - and we have an analysis that says that the current legal framework is unsatisfactory, we are actually still at point zero, because unfortunately there is no House Press, no paragrafo text that would change the situation. And I would like to say that this question is even more urgent than it was in 2014 after more than a year and a half, because during that time it has proved problematic and cumbersome to send our specialists into rescue operations, and at the same time it has proved impossible to send soldiers to possibly rescue Czech citizens detained abroad. I believe that this should be the absolute minimum when executives should have more flexible competences. Whoever I mean by executive is obvious. I mean the government of the Czech Republic. I am sorry that the government is so lax about this question. I regret that even the DOD's lawyers were not more active, especially because of our own interest, when we could already discuss a proposal today or this year that would make it easier to broadcast our troops, and did not bump into any procedures as it did. I really also consider this issue to be very intense after discussions with members of the Army of the Czech Republic, and therefore I would like to make an announcement before you, and I have also announced this on the Defence Committee, and the Minister of Defence knows that during the summer I will come up with a legislative proposal to amend the constitutional definition of sending our troops abroad. Of course, I will not promote this change solo. I will try to get support across the political spectrum for its initiation and find a consensus on the resulting text. I believe that there is really nothing to wait for in view of the deteriorating security situation and that we need to act in such a way that we can still approve this change during this parliamentary term. But this activity of mine will have one condition. If we actually decide and you support me in this way, then there should be a gentleman's agreement between us in the sense that if we are opening the Constitution of the Czech Republic precisely to ensure greater flexibility in sending our soldiers especially to the rescue of the Czech population, we should not go into any other, further modifications to the Constitution of the Czech Republic, so that we do not make this a tearing calendar. If you are prepared to support me in this effort, thank you in advance. And during the July meeting, which actually awaits us in the week of the 12th, I would like to address individual members of the Defence Committee who are represented or represented - their parties are represented in committees, so that we can agree whether or not this condition applies, because it is not really my intention to submit another proposal to amend the Constitution, which will just lie here until the end of the parliamentary term. Thank you for your attention and I will read the motion for a resolution in detail.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-008-205.u15	Thank you, too. Mr Černý is now duly entered into the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-008-205.u16	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Ministers, fellow Members, allow me also to express my regret that unfortunately neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister of Foreign Affairs is present. I would also like to hear their opinion on some questions, but perhaps we will hear them another time on another occasion. But let me remind you, in relation to where the Prime Minister is right now, that brexit is a matter that, of course, we are all extremely interested in. We have heard a number of comments, analyses, analyses, and we will certainly hear a lot about it. And very often, you've all heard as much as I have, that there is one thing that can probably be deduced from Brexit that the elites - I mean above all political elites - are not brilliant. There's just no need for political leaders to believe everything. And this applies not only to the Brussels elites, but also to any other political elite anywhere on Earth, including this House. There is no doubt that a referendum or a referendum can be repeated even as long as it does not work out as we need it. There can also be no referendum at all. That's safer. What I can hardly imagine is that we would try to replace citizens or voters. And what happened in Britain is probably due to the fact that the citizens of Great Britain, regardless of the massive massage they had undergone in the last days before the referendum, have decided what they have decided. [[15.00 hours]] I will return to the presentation report, which tries to lure us into a situation that we should rather trust political elites. It says here: "In line with its security strategy, the Czech Republic puts emphasis on preventing armed conflicts and addressing security challenges by diplomatic, political and other non-violent means. " The text goes on, of course, that we must therefore focus more on military and violent means. However, there is, for example, a passage in the presentation report that I will also allow you to quote. It's part H - Operation International Forces on the Sinai Peninsula. Under number 1 - The political-security situation says: "The Sinai Peninsula is the only part of Egypt that is invading Asia. It is a natural geographic bridge linking Egypt to the region of the Middle East. This area of approximately 61,000. km2 and with an inhospitable desert environment is a strategically important area, primarily for its location between the Mediterranean and the Red Sea. It is a kind of buffer zone between Israel and Egypt, for which both states have led armed conflicts in the past and which, since the conclusion of peace agreements, has been working very effectively as an area separating both countries." So let's understand both sides. The next thing you know, I'm quoting this passage from the reference report. Now I'm going to allow myself to continue with the other quotes. Once again, I will use the material from the Department of Communication of the Ministry of Defence: "Američan strengthen their presence in Europe." That's what it's called. "Barack Obama for fiscal year 2017, i.e. as of 1 October 2016, requires 3.4 billion. dollars to strengthen America's presence in Europe. This is more than a quadruple increase in funds against fiscal year 2016. Overall, the Pentagon demands next fiscal year, i.e. 2017, 582.7 billion. US dollars, which is about 14 trillion crowns for orientation, "of which, for overseas operations, almost 60 billion. dollars. The fiscal year 2017 envisages a significant increase in money for the European Security Initiative.' What is hidden under the security initiative that is relevant to Europe? Among the activities financed by this initiative were, for example, the dragoon ride, when American fighting vehicles arrived on their own axis from Lithuania through Poland and the Czech Republic to their home German base, said in the material. I merely add that often at the cost of almost self-destruction, but she arrived. "Within this initiative, the U.S. military regularly sends on a rotation of armored and airborne brigade to Poland and the Baltic States. The U.S. Air Force has strengthened the air defense of the Baltics by other aircraft F-15 and the U.S. Navy ships patrol regularly in the Black Sea. The Pentagon also provides funding for non-Member States of the North Atlantic Alliance, such as Georgia, Ukraine, Moldova. The armed forces of the United States, including Air Force or Navy personnel in Europe, now have 77,000 men and women," says the material. The funds of this European fund will go to the fault of military exercises, infrastructure construction, forward-looking storage facilities with military technology. Another 217 miles. dollars will fall to improve bases and airports in host countries, especially in Eastern Europe. The largest part of the funds will require the deployment of a heavy armored brigade team with Abrams and Bradley tanks in Eastern Europe. It will be a permanent presence and a constant emergency. The U.S. Army, says on, counts on the permanent rotation of its troops in Bulgaria, Romania, Poland, the Baltics etc. etc. I quoted from this report because when I looked at the financial aspects of the material that we are discussing, I read that the costs of posting related to the participation of the forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence Ministry in foreign operations in 2017 were estimated at 1 billion. 164 miles. and then 1 billion in 1918. 123 miles. Crowns. It is certainly enough, but it is not as much as it should cost the potential deployment of forces and resources of the Defense Department in NATO's Rapid Response Forces. There is only expected for next year with the amount of 1.44 billion. koruna, i.e. 1 billion. 440 miles. I can only say, on the basis of what I have said so far, that - as the reference report says - maintaining stability and security through foreign operations represents the optimal and often the only way to minimize the impact of threats on the security interests of the Czech Republic, that this is a statement from the category of those I referred to in the introduction when I spoke about brexit, as something where political elites are not necessarily always to be trusted. Today, in the news, I was extremely impressed that there was an agreement, i.e. a telephone conversation, and then a deal between Moscow and Ankara. I saw it in the context that there was a tragic event in Turkey. Allow me to express my condolences on this occasion to all the victims, to all the victims affected by the Istanbul assassination, and to condemn any act of terrorism, including as shameful as it was last night. But what the President of Turkey and the President of the Russian Federation did made me quite happy, because if these two people, who I suspect have not spoken to each other for more than seven months, refused to communicate, that is, first of all, Putin refused to communicate, then suddenly they were able to agree. I am not impressed with what is happening in Turkey, I am not even impressed with what is happening in Russia, but I can imagine that if there is security in Europe or in the world, if you want something in our country, it can help, so it is communication, mutual cooperation, such as tourist exchange, mutual trade. These are simply things that need to be strengthened, on which to build. For me, the Russian-Turkish communication channel, which has probably been reopened, gives me some hope that everything is not lost and that even political elites can really guarantee decent development for the future, and I hope also prosperity. I firmly believe that this is what we all want, that none of us wishes to confront at any level, and certainly not with the nuclear power, and I firmly believe that in the future the materials that will be presented to us by the Minister of Defence or the Government will be moving in this direction. [[15.10 hours]] Unfortunately, I do not see anything like this in this material that we are discussing today, which is why I had no choice but to recommend to my fellow Members in the parliamentary club that such material, which is still harasing weapons, which prepares enormous resources for, for example, the rapid response forces that expect us to be involved, for example. To increase escalation in the east, it's just something that's undesirable for me. So we just can't support this material. But we will be optimistic and hope to see further steps in the future that the presidents of Turkey and Russia have taken today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-008-205.u17	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I'll read the apologies. Today from 14.30 to the end of the day due to urgent work obligations in the Ministry of the Interior, Minister Chovanec apologizes and, for reasons of work, apologizes until the end of the day of the hearing, Minister Karla Šlechtová. In fact, Mr Gabal is reporting. You're logged in with a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-008-205.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Just about the previous proposal to turn the Ministry of Defence into the Ministry of Tourism. I have the impression that my colleague, Černý, was referring to those green-dressed tourists who were in Eastern Ukraine about two years ago. Well, that's the hiking, yes. I just wanted a few basic points and to draw your attention to one important aspect of these missions. We continue to maintain relatively very high involvement of the Army of the Czech Republic in missions, especially in the three key operations, now Afghanistan, Mali, Iraq. This means that we continue to have quite a lot of joint responsibility with allies for the exercise and defence of the West against these crisis zones, and not only in terms of migration. And the load is relatively, so to speak, not falling. At the same time, however, we are in a situation where the security situation in Europe has changed so much that we need to respond and we need to expand our basic defensive capabilities not only according to Art. 5 The Atlantic Treaty, but in particular under Article 5 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, is hereby amended as follows: 3 The Atlantic Treaty, that means increasing your own ability to defend yourself. In this sense, we also need to accelerate the modernization of outdated technology, originally Soviet, because it already serves and does not serve us. These are parallel three steps - missions, increased defence capabilities and modernization. I am saying this because we continue to do this at less than 1% in the budget and defence expenditure, which was last year and will be about this year, and therefore I would appeal in this situation both to the House and to the current members of the government, so that you realize that we have a much greater responsibility than we did a few years ago, and we really need to increase our defence expenditure. The budget is being discussed, I would urge the government to take this into account, and at the same time that the House - and this time we will no longer propose an increase like we did last year - yes, thank you. [[Your time, Mr. Ambassador!]] But we need to be able to take more care of ourselves. One thing -- which you really believe, those cursed Američan bear 75 percent of the cost of defending the entire NATO! [[Your time, Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-008-205.u19	Please, Minister, you are duly logged in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-008-205.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Without wanting to extend the debate on my own purpose, I will still allow myself a few comments on what has been said here. I'm intrigued by "failure of the elite." This is certainly a serious subject and self-criticism is the first step towards remedying, so I am glad that we are all aware of this. As far as diplomacy is concerned in the document that the funds are not very divorced there, but there are violent means, so I would like to stress that all the missions we are involved in are actually training missions or missions where we provide protection or security for some important objects, but clearly prevails, say, instruction or efforts to put local armed forces on their feet and give them the degree of professionalism that will allow the country to stabilise or at least contribute to that. These aren't fighters, please. I don't think anybody can even be serious about saying that. That the United States is strengthening in Europe and what lies beneath it. So I would say that there is only one thing under it, and that is an urgent request, an urgent request from any country, whether they are in the Balkans or in the Baltics or elsewhere, which still calls for such security guarantees more urgently and not for no reason. It is a wish that has been heard, and believe me, dear colleagues. And there's no imperialist ambition in that, as someone here might be trying to scoop up a pattern of different Internet addresses. 77,000 soldiers, men and women, the United States... I confess that I do not know the exact number now, because there is an increase and it will probably still be at the request of a number of European countries, but roughly 60,000 Russian soldiers are in very close proximity to the Baltics. Only in one European region. In that sense, I would also like to point out the Kaliningrad area. From the available sources you can have relatively accurate information on what arsenal this area has become, not only that it has been, but it has been considerably strengthened, and what action radius the weapons that are accumulated there have. The imbalance is striking in the eyes. So haunting the excessive military presence of the United States in Europe is really off topic. On the contrary, many, or most of the alliance's European members, are concerned that the United States will no longer pay European security as much attention as the European allies imagine in the future, including a very loud call from those countries that are close to us as Romania and Bulgaria. It's just in a nutshell. But perhaps the most important thing I would like to repeat: our missions abroad are instructional and protective, not combative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-008-205.u21	I also thank you, Minister, and I ask if anyone else is joining the general debate. I don't see anyone. If that's the case... Excuse me, I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-008-205.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. It's just a comment about the reaction, what the Minister said, that he doesn't know the numbers. I really made a special effort today not to use a single number, not a single argument, not even the 77 grand I made up. These are the numbers that all come from sources that I have read from the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic. If you're interested, I'll give you a peek, but I assume you have that option. But what I would like to mention is something that the Minister here also mentioned. He said that just 60,000 to the teeth of armed Rus, that is undoubtedly true, I even assume that there will be more to a greater extent, because it is not expected that they would not respond to the initiatives that we and our partners are taking in the North Atlantic Alliance. And it will lead to nothing but the fact that the number on a relatively small territory will continue to increase on both sides. This is the path that we have taken, and so far we are continuing very successfully. Unlike the often questioned Turkish Erdogan, who, as you can see, managed to overcome the huge grudge that was in him about seven months or more, and proceeded to something that could lead to better relations between Russia and Turkey, and it will certainly benefit not only these two countries. [[15.20 hours]] But the expansion you mentioned here to the Baltics and the areas close to Russia, that's something I call expansion on demand. It's not that big a deal to get the former members of the Warsaw Treaty to really feel threatened. The atmosphere of war has been a success in Europe, unfortunately, for several years now, and citizens are slowly getting used to it. And then it's no wonder that if we offer them such a spectacular offer that it won't cost you that much, just give us your territory, or some of your people here and there, and we generously build forward bases, radar stations for missile defenses and similar conveniences of today's technology, you'll benefit from it. No, they won't benefit from it. All judgmental people know this isn't the way. We're forgetting one little thing. The 60,000 Rus you mentioned are still in Russia's territory, if I'm not mistaken. And the last thing I want to remind you about is that not long ago, folks, it was true - that's why I was talking about the buffer zone in Sinai, which is why I stressed how, for example, relations between two states that have not the same opinion about everything can be normalized. And those buffer zones are quite a useful thing. And if it works elsewhere, why can't it work in Eastern Europe? But not long ago, the armies of the North Atlantic Alliance were placed about a thousand miles from Moscow. And now, the distance has decreased to almost a tenth. It's a little over a hundred miles from the North Atlantic Alliance's troops to Moscow. I'm not saying from the Russian border. Excuse me, Minister, but if we continue this way, we will certainly not do much for the security of the citizens of the Czech Republic. I am simply convinced that this is not the way to go, and if we do not act politically responsible, if we are not able to really derive more far-reaching consequences from our actions than what is the current effect or what seems to be the current effect, then it will simply not have much perspective. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-008-205.u23	Thank you. Next up is Mr Ivan Gabal. Just for the record, are you logged in properly or with a factual remark?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-008-205.u24	I'll take a note, thank you. So let's call each other the numbers. Of the 2,570 detained Ukrainian citizens in Donetsk and Luhanska area were soldiers only 50 percent, the rest were civilians, 70 percent were tortured, 30 percent succumbed to the consequences of torture without any legal assistance. That's the normalization of neighboring territory. In the space occupied by Ukraine operated more Russian tanks times my Czech army. And I hope my colleague, Černý, didn't want to stress that for normalizing relations with Russia, they need to be shot down a fighter jet over their own territory first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-008-205.u25	Thank you, and I'm asking if anyone else is applying. Mr Ondráček, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-008-205.u26	Thank you, Mr President. A real comment on Mr Gabal's last speech. Unlike you, I was in the southeast of Ukraine. You're talking about the numbers you may have obtained at the American embassy or somewhere else. Please bring the relevant information, document at least one photograph of the presence of Russian troops in this territory. What you're talking about is fiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-008-205.u27	Thank you, too. With a factual remark, Mr Ivan Gabal. [[Voices from the diaper.]] I'm gonna ask you, co-workers and co-workers, not to shout at each other. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-008-205.u28	She quoted the numbers are from an official report by the OSCE that hangs on their site. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-008-205.u29	Thank you. I ask - yes, there is still Mr Ondráček's response. Please make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-008-205.u30	So, speaking of the OSCE official figures, talk about how many times the OSCE is being bombed by the Ukrainian army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-008-205.u31	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is joining the general debate. I don't see anyone. If this is the case, I am ending the general debate and I am asking the Minister or the rapporteur for a possible final ruling. You don't want the final word. We will therefore proceed to a detailed debate and give the rapporteur the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-008-205.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Let me therefore propose a resolution in which Parliament's Chamber of Deputies would vote on a proposal from the Committee on Defence, I. consents to: 1. acting by forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in the Mission of the Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty RESOLUTE SUPPORT in Afghanistan, in total up to 270 persons for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017 and in total up to 250 persons for the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018, 2. acting by forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence's Ministry of Defence to protect the Czech Representation Office in Kabul, Afghanistan, in total up to 20 persons, for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2018, 3. acting by forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in the European Union operation ALTHEA in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the total number of up to two persons, for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2018, 4. acting by forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in the operation of the Organization of the North Atlantic Treaty JOINT ENTERPRISE within the framework of the KFOR forces in Kosovo in a total of up to 10 persons, for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2018, [[Kosovo Force]] 5. acting by forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in the European Union operation NAVFOR MED SOPHIA in Italy for a total of up to five persons, for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2018, 6. acting by forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence at the operational headquarters of the European Union operation NAVFOR ATALANTA in the UK in total up to three persons, for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2018, 7. acting by forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in the European Union EUTM training mission in the Malian Republic, in total up to 50 persons, for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2018, 8. acting by forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in the United Nations Mission MINUSMA in the Republic of Mali in a total of up to 10 persons, for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2018, [[point 9 not read]] 10. acting by forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence's Ministry of Defence in the MULTINATIONALFORCE AND THE OSCERVERS mission on the Sinai Peninsula in the total number of up to 25 persons, for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2018, 11. sending members of the Ministry of Defence Department to strengthen the command structures of NATO, the EU and the UN deployed in the operations of these organisations and seconded members of the Ministry of Defence acting in NATO, the EU and the UN structures of these organisations outside the territory of the Czech Republic for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2018, 12. by acting as a deployable module in NATO operations outside the territory of the Czech Republic in total up to 56 persons, for a maximum period of six months per year from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2018. 2. He notes: 1. the allocation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence to NATO's Rapid Response Force, in total up to 810 persons for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017 and to 380 persons for the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018, 2. Deployment of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence to the UN Peace Operation preparedness System in total up to 200 persons for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2018. [[15.30 hours]] 3. He asks the Government to inform the Chamber of Deputies about the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence's Ministry of Foreign Operations in 2017, by 30 June 2018 at the latest, and about the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence's Ministry of Foreign Operations in 2018 by 30 June 2019. II. It entrusts the rapporteur, i.e. me, to introduce you to this resolution, and it has also been imposed on the chairman of the committee to present the resolution I have read to you, to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, which has happened, and therefore nothing prevents us from voting in favour of the proposed resolution. [[III.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-008-205.u33	Thank you. Anyway, before that, I will ask if anyone wants to speak in a detailed debate. I don't see anyone. If so, in that case, I shall conclude a detailed debate. I ask whether the Minister or the rapporteur wants to take the final floor before we proceed to the vote. It's not like that. I will call my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby to come to the vote. I will ask that, for the first vote, that the Chamber of Deputies gives its consent, we set the kvorum to the necessary number of votes 101. At the same time, I ask the Chamber of Deputies whether it is possible to vote with the first point that the Chamber of Deputies agrees on all points under point 1, that is to say 1.1 to 1.12 en bloc. No one's getting in the way. Okay. I have a request for your check-out. I'll sign you off, then. I'm gonna ask you to re-enlist with your cards. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of the resolution that the Chamber of Deputies agrees to the resolution as it has been read, to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 122, 140 Members are registered, for proposal 113, against 29. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. We will also vote on two other points that the Chamber of Deputies notes, these are points under the numbers 2.1 to 2.2, here I also propose to vote en bloc. No one's resisting. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this resolution, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 123, 144 Members and Members registered, for proposal 112, against 29. This motion for a resolution has been agreed with. And lastly, we will vote in the resolution that the Chamber of Deputies is asking the government in that text of the resolution, as it was loaded. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this resolution, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 124, 145 Members are registered, for proposal 111, against 26. I note that this resolution has also been approved, and all the motions for resolutions tabled have been approved. Thank you, and I am done discussing this point. Before we go any further, I'll read the apologies. From 15.15 to the end of the day, Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes for reasons of work. Mr Pavel Šrámek apologizes from 16 to 19 o'clock for reasons of work. Furthermore, from 15.15 to the end of the day, for personal reasons, Mr Karel Fiedler apologizes. Furthermore, from 16 to 19 Mr Jiří Koubek apologizes for reasons of work. Thank you. I'm opening up another point in today's meeting.
