ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u1	209. Government bill amending Act No. 201/2012 Coll., on Air Protection, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended /house print 678/ - third reading I ask that Mr Václav Zemek, Mr Václav Zemek, take the place of the rapporteur's chair for the petitioner, Mr Richard Brabec and the rapporteur of the guarantee committee. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 678/4, which was delivered on 27 May 2016. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 678/5. I am now asking the appellant whether he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. Interested is. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will repeat very briefly what the main objective of this amendment is, and I will briefly mention and I will certainly then respond to the debate after the conclusion of the debate on this one paragraph, one of the changes that have caused perhaps the most debate, debate and perhaps sometimes a little demagogy. The main aim of the proposal is to fulfil the commitments of the Czech Republic in the field of low-emission zones, to ensure full transposition of EU regulations and to strengthen air protection by introducing new control powers for air protection authorities. It therefore regulates the rules for the recognition of foreign emission plaques, on the basis of recommendations of the Government's Legislative Council, changing the form for the establishment of low-emission zones from generally binding decrees to measures of a general nature, with effect from 2020, it sets a new, lower value of the emission limit for PM2,5 particles, regulates the rules for placing heaters on the market and others. But it also regulates the rules for controlling the operation of combustion stationary sources operated by households - and this has triggered perhaps the biggest debate, and I assume that this debate will still be today. I would like to say, after the many discussions that we have held within the committees and in certain media shootouts on this issue, that this new proposed provision is not unconstitutional, this has been confirmed by the constitutional lawyers addressed. That the guarantee of protection of the rights of an operator of an internal combustion source is that in this possible control as - I stress - the last institute under this law, because a number of specific pre-measures are preceded, e.g. notice of the infringement that the condition of the occurrence is repeated reasonable suspicion of breach of obligations under the law, that the right to carry out an inspection of the Office arises only after sending a written notice of possible infringement of legal obligations, and the fact that during any inspection it will be conducted strictly under the Act on State Control and a control protocol will be issued, on which the operator will be able to comment. I would therefore like to say that there is no danger to decent people, if this law is approved with this paragraph too, because I believe that a decent person who does not commit any infringement does not burn waste and other things does not have to be afraid to prove it and it should not be difficult to prove and provide clear evidence that something like this is not happening, and on the contrary, this new paragraph protects and should be the prevention against chronic snoops, snoopers, against whom there is no de facto protection today. We meet the demands and requests and appeals of dozens and perhaps hundreds of mayors who have been turning to regional authorities for many years, the Ministry of the Environment and say: If the legislature gave a penalty, he gave the obligation to ban the incineration of waste already under very significant sanctions today, he should also ensure that this obligation was enforceable, de facto enforceable. And she's not today. I think we've been talking about this quite intensely, in detail, in the second reading. I can serve a specific example from Ostrava, where the Magistrate receives about a thousand suggestions from the residents a year, and according to the information I have, only one was done positively, because the intruder may have accidentally confessed. In other cases, no evidence could be provided that could convict this person of infecting the air, although it was, substances that unfortunately are very often cancerous. I think that each of us has experience that one, two, three such smoking chimneys in the village can quite reliably contaminate the atmosphere, and there is no defense against it today. For a very long time, many months, we have focused on making the proposal balanced, to be constitutionally conformal, and at a time, and it will certainly sound here when some colleagues say "this is wrong," so I would ask them to say what should be done to me anyway. Because we have discussed all other possible technical measures, including drones and other modern technologies that are proposed, but experts have confirmed that it is not possible to use these technologies at present. It'll be possible in five, seven years, maybe, and then, of course, there's the possibility of this amendment. But the question is, what are we going to do in the meantime, and if, until then, we are going to resign as a state to the possibility of punishing those people who are poisoning the environment and poisoning others' air? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u3	Thank you, Minister. I am opening a debate to which I am registering three applications. [[Member Klán shouts from the point of view that he has the right to speak as rapporteur.]] As rapporteur, you will be given the floor in case of final words. [[Objection.]] With priority rights, I'm sorry. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u4	Thank you for the floor, good day, Mr Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen. You've got me a little confused that I don't have priority rights, but I have priority rights. [[President: You have priority rights, yes, you are right.]] I am the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, where we have dealt with this law, and I have not quite finished writing one answer to that committee when it was discussed. I asked the question, for example, if I drown, for example, with low-quality coal, my neighbor complains that I am poisoning the community with some smoke, some smoke, who will be responsible for the fact that I am drowning with low-quality coal. Will it be me as the one who bought it or the one who sold it to me? That's one thing. I know I can advertise the coal, so at least the representatives of the Department of the Environment told me, but I can't imagine if there's 30 or 40 kilometers of coal in the basement, and I'm going to claim who's gonna get it out of the basement. In this case. It's just a question that just caught my eye, because I don't know what percentage of sulphur that or that coal contains, I don't know about it. You know when you burn solid fuels, it does it like a lot of smoke and in the village, when it needs fog and is smog, it falls to the ground. I am afraid of this example that it may be abused. Of course, I don't have a problem with controlling the boilers that they drown because sometimes they really drown like PET bottles and other really terrible things. I don't care about that, I don't have a problem with that, but I'm more concerned about who will be responsible for the possible fact that I'm going to be drowning the very low-quality coal. It is just a question for discussion, and because none of the representatives of the Ministry of the Environment could answer me on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u5	Thank you. Now, therefore, duly logged in to the debate. Mr Zahradník will be the first to speak and Mr Horáček will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been speaking to this law for several times, and I would also like to remind you of what the Minister has actually done, that he has calculated what points the law relates to, including the setting up of emission-free zones in cities from the decree on measures of a general nature. Even that's a thing that's debatable. A measure of a general nature is an instrument which has already been called into question by the Supreme Court whether it is indeed a credible and quality instrument for implementing such important things. I would not like to discuss these matters, but I have also not tabled any amendments to these matters. But I would like to focus on what this law is actually symbolized by. In public and in the media, there is nothing else to talk about except that it is a law that allows home controls to be introduced outside a normal regime, which knows the criminal code which requires a police officer to enter a house, an apartment, to have a court order. So it is another law within which there is a provision that violates the fundamental freedoms of citizens, in this case home freedom, the right to privacy, the right to peace, privacy in their home. The objections raised by the Minister, which may have been respected by some constitutional lawyers, say that the same Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms also mentions the right to a healthy environment, the right to a healthy life. Yes, it is. And it's always to assess which of those public interests is more important to us what we're able to sacrifice to fulfill it. I think that this right to the freedom of your home, to the peace of your home is the right of priority, and that is because it is possible to register this unfortunate phenomenon and possibly remove it otherwise. Of course, I see the Minister's question - what to do? he asked. Of course, I'm not an expert in the testing of soil from chimneys, whether large businesses in Ostrava or small chimneys in people's houses. I'm not that expert. Still, I am fascinated that at the beginning of the second decade of the 21st century, we are unable to develop and have a method that would enable us to analyse the fumes coming out of smoke in some way in time and place protocolable, defendable and also giving a title to punish this man. For several times, I have set an example of civilization, which is able to detect the composition of the atmosphere on Venus using its probes that are transmitting there, and it is not credible to prove that someone is burning garbage and waste in their boiler. So do this, go this way. I don't know if the question is five years, seven years, you said. That's what I think we should do much sooner. The next question is how will we actually be able to really punish people who burn low-quality fuel and infect the air? Surely these are not people who would do so out of some pleasure to harm their neighbors. They do it largely because they don't have the money to buy quality boilers for tens, maybe hundreds of thousands of crowns burning noble fuels and then buy these fuels. These are people who just have old boilers, different dacons, and those we were very hard to find in our house 30 years ago. And then he buys coal, as his colleague Klán mentioned, which is not of much quality. Of course, Minister, you could say that you are dealing with this situation through boiler subsidies. There are billions of crowns coming, either from European or national funds. But maybe the cauldron subsidies aren't the universal tool. Maybe you're sort of dealing with the need to use the money from Europe, and you're not really focusing on the most needed boilers. The boiler basically changes anyone who asks for it and can buy a boiler that's on the supplier list. But those who should change them won't reach it anyway, those who are the greatest threat to the environment. What happens when a check-up comes to a house like this? People pay you that 50 grand ticket when they lock the door, pour a bucket of water over the boiler and wait quietly for what happens? Will that check break in? He's gonna use some kind of battering ram? Or is he going to leave and then send them a receipt for 50,000 of the fine they're supposed to pay? There will be other taxpayers, other people on the executor list, another burden on such socially weak people. So I don't think it's that way. Perhaps you think that it might discourage people, that only the existence of this section 17 para. 2, the possibility of checking in, the people are going to stop them from getting scared, they're going to say, there might be a check, they could fine me, it's in the law, I'd rather watch out for it. Unfortunately, human thinking is not so disciplined. Unfortunately, this is what we see at every step, perhaps more on every mile of road travel, when we drive, how people respect the legal standards. I don't want to mention it anymore, but even the educational impact of this law is problematic. And, to summarize this, it is not worth indulging our legal environment with other provisions that belong to a higher legal standard, such as the Criminal Code, to inflate our legal environment with this paragraph, which limits individual freedom. And this is what you do repeatedly. That's not the first case. Your government is trying to limit human freedom in a repeated way, starting with various cutting decrees, to check whether anyone has weapons and at the same time is also a little mentally disturbed, after this boiler check. I would also like to comment on one more point in the Minister's speech, on one sentence that the Minister said, and that is a sentence that should always freeze us all a little, because history shows that it used to be used. It's a sentence: decent people don't have to worry about anything. There's no danger to decent people. Whoever doesn't fire rockets, whoever doesn't burn plastics, isn't in any danger. That's how all in history have been shielded, those who have always limited freedom by something have limited man. Ladies and gentlemen, to this day in the debates that are going on in this hectic time, which I have the honour to attend, I hear, for example, that when the communists closed the borders and placed wires charged with electricity on the border, and bordermen shot at anyone who tried to cross this border from us to freedom in the West, it was actually legal. It was the decent people, those who didn't try to cross the border, that couldn't have been harmed, they had nothing to worry about. Until today, it's been about two weeks, I've heard this argument in one of the debates that I've taken part in. Nothing could have happened to those decent people. And those who crossed it, who then died there with the bullets of the border guards, knew what they were getting into, they knew that they were crossing the law. Here we should be very careful and always make a significant effort when we hear the saying of decent people have nothing to worry about. [[10.30 hours]] I have tabled an amendment, ladies and gentlemen, which proposes to delete Amendment 21, i.e. Section 17 para. 2, if I'm not mistaken, which just allows the controls to be carried out. In the text of this paragraph, we may suspect a certain concern of the author that such a debate will take place, that there might be people who question the credibility and need of the law, just in this law, which has far different sections of expertise, directly numerically declaring some standards, which we will certainly support here, and therefore contains various words that suggest it, such adversaries as repeatedly. If it's repeatedly formed. Again, continue. What is it repeatedly? Twice? Three times? What else is it? Is that infinity, or is that, like, five times? What's that again? Is there another time? If someone does so and violates this obligation, the controller is therefore entitled to enter his home under the law of control, or he can somehow extricate the entrance. We know that well. Then there's obviously - I think it was in the explanatory report - a block scheme of the design of the check. The block scheme, it's kind of branching out of different possibilities. There is a violation of the law that cannot be demonstrated. There will be a written notice. The letter will come, these people will read it, and they will do better, they will stop. We're coming out of the scheme. Nothing's going on. Once again, there's a reasonable breach, there's one block that's only about once, and then there's a check done and there's a protocol written. So this is done by the municipality with extended scope, its official with some controller probably from the Czech Environmental Inspection. And that's where the diagram goes in two directions. One direction - a violation of the law, sanctions and corrective measures are imposed - is imposed by an extended municipality. I'm sure you think you can use them, but you think they'll be effective, that they'll turn others away to do so. Okay, that's up to you, and considering the House, if she's convinced of that, too. Then there's an arrow to the right - there's no evidence of breaking the law. They break in, they come out, and then they find out that... What's gonna happen? You don't have that here, Minister. That's not what the Minister's been treated for. Who's going to apologize to these people? Is that the controller? He'll say sorry we broke down your door, you're innocent, goodbye, goodbye? Or will the mayor of the village do it? He's gonna write a letter -- we came in, we thought you were burning garbage, we got a letter. Maybe that's what's happening. It didn't happen, so don't be mad at us. Or maybe the minister will come right there and bring them something to keep them from getting mad. He'll say no, I put it in the law back then. You don't have that here. Not at all. That's not what's going to happen here when the control encounters failure. And you should think about that, too, that can happen. Again, it's proof that basically you don't count on any checks, that you won't do any, that no one will ever agree to it. You're just trying to scare people and mess with the system of our laws with this useless paragraph. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, please support my amendment, which in this summary is like Amendment B, which has a proposal to delete Amendment 21, renumbering other points. And then there's these changes that can confuse someone, but it's because in Section 23, the sanctioning of trespassers or those who don't allow control to be carried out, and it's there in connection with other possible offences, I don't know, the propulsion of a vessel or the painting of road vehicles. So there's a possibility of preventing entry in the event of waste incineration. Therefore, the amendment contains words such as a vessel or paint of vehicles. More likely, there are words about the ability to carry out home control. So, in conclusion, maybe one more thing. I would rather intercede for this, and I do so repeatedly as a member of the Management Committee of the Operational Programme Environment and the Board member of the SFŽP, so that we can really change the subsidy system a little, so that we focus on the worst boilers, on those that pollute our environment most, where we can direct the money and maybe even a little - and now as a right-winger, I'm not really saying that with ease, but a little help from those people, the worst boilers, those that are the oldest and most polluting of the environment, can be replaced. I am ending my speech with a request and a call to my colleagues to support my amendment and to approve the release of Paragraph 17 (1). (c) which introduces control in households contrary to the right to home freedom. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u7	I thank Mr Jan Zahradník. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue with the debate, first with factual remarks. First, a colleague, Zemek, will prepare his colleague Adamec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u8	Thank you for the floor, it'll be brief. I have noted that there was something here in the previous article in the sense that low emission zones are being introduced. I would just like to know that this amendment does not introduce a low-emission zone, which already allows existing legislation. The submitted amendment merely allows the holders of low-emission plaques on their cars to use them from neighbouring countries in our country and our holders in neighbouring countries. That means low-emission zones are not being introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u9	Thank you. Now, Mr Ivan Adamec has also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u10	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, I will also be very brief. I wouldn't want to deal with the complicated connection to any of the tours that they're drowning at home, it's a pretty complicated subject. But on the other hand, the minister here in his opening speech said that he was asking constitutional lawyers and they told him that it was in accordance with constitutional law, as I understood at least. However, I say from my practice, I always ask lawyers if what we do is right. They're always nodding, aren't they, and then the trial comes and he says it's different. So I would ask that the arguments of this type should not be used, because it can really be decided by the court. And maybe in this case, it would be very good if it got to the Constitutional Court, so let the endless debates finally disappear here, because otherwise we won't avoid them in every case like this, where we start limiting on the basis of, I'd say, noble goals of home freedom. Otherwise, from my practice as mayor, I have to say that when people drown what they don't have, it was a lot when the waste collection was done by a label system, when, of course, when PET bottles had nowhere to put, they threw them into boilers, and if PET bottles were to be paid for, if they were to be bought out, the situation might have improved significantly. On the other hand, I have to say that cases where they are drowning like this have actually been with the most socially weak families who have lived in rented houses where no one would live anymore, have no income, just live there and there any fine, any control has the same result. It's just that if these people want to survive, they won't behave otherwise. It's just an explanation. But I'd like to really, let's not use the argument: I asked the lawyers, they told me it was okay. In that case, I think we must ask the court concerned to give us his position. [[Time.]] And maybe it would be for the best. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u11	Thank you. And now, with proper application, Mr Václav Horáček in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, colleagues. I would like to draw attention to another aspect of this law, and that is the smell. In the second reading, I have explained in detail and for a lot of towns and villages how much they suffer from the smell not only of pigs, cows, rendering machines. Unfortunately, so far, there has been a standard that has been very difficult or even determined how to act in this case. I pointed it out to the town of Mimoni, where the three really involved, that is, an entrepreneur, an official and a mayor would like to resolve this situation. Unfortunately, unfortunately, the standard does not clearly define what the dimension and the value of the scent is. Where it's still right, where it's not. Let me give you an example from Mimoňa, where the businessman says: I don't break anything. The clerk says: I have done everything for it, and the entrepreneur has fulfilled what he has ordered. The inhabitants of the city say only to blow the north wind. When the east comes, the whole town smells of forgiveness. That is why I have tabled my amendment under No. 4396, which sets standards, the so-called European scent unit, to make it perfectly clear when it is still acceptable both in the residential and industrial zones and when it is not. I must say that the Ministry's proposal is also partly trying to tighten the standard. However, I believe that if there are no clear figures, it will again occur that the official will be clueless. The minister here said - and I quote - that tens and hundreds of mayors are turning when they're snooping it to make it enforceable. That's why I turn to it when it already stinks to make it enforceable. And I believe that only a clear standard will determine when it will be enforceable. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u13	I thank Mr Václav Horáček for his contribution. Mr Jiří Junek will now continue the debate. Mr. Michal Kučera will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u14	Thank you. Mr President, fellow Members, let me, too, comment on the proposed amendment. For the KDU-ČSL club I can say that neither can we support this amendment, virtually. problematic provision of § 17 para. 2. Those are boiler checks. In my first and second reading performances, I gave my own or our position was sufficiently guaranteed. If I were to summarize this briefly, we know that this measure will in any case increase bureaucracy and administration. It will mean an increase in financial costs for municipalities, and it will also mean that this measure can be used in neighbourly disputes. The result, I would say, is quite uncertain. It has already been said here, for example, how you will enforce a fine of CZK 50,000 from people who are socially weak, etc. What is quite certain, however, is that we are violating the right to home freedom by this measure. In this context, it is charming how this procedure is actually justified and argued. It's not that charming. It's quite sad. And even in the previous discussions from the Minister, it was said: for in some cases we have already violated house freedom anyway. If I'm not mistaken, it was in a case of determination or breach of noise levels. Then it was still in the gun bill. If we go this way and we continue this way and we always say, "Well, we broke it in some law anyway, the home freedom has already been violated somewhere in some measure," then at this rate, home freedom will begin to be a total fiction, where a fundamental right is useless. In a moment, we can hope that the officials will control us, I don't know, what we're eating. If we eat healthy, etcetera. At this point, I think the amendment is unfortunate and we cannot support it. As well as my colleague the Zahradník, I would also like to respond to one thing that the Minister here has said, which in a way has also raised me, and that was the sentence that a decent person has nothing to fear. We know that. It happens all the time. A decent person doesn't have to be afraid of cameras and wiretaps, and I don't know what the hell's going on. Then we know... But in any case, Minister, one important thing. Even a decent person can be a neighbor to a bastard who wants revenge and can take advantage of this thing. For this reason, I have proposed the deletion of the provisions of § 17 para. 2. It is stated as Amendment D1, D2. I would like his support, virtually. the same amendment was tabled by Mr Zahradník, who is led by B1, B2, B3 and will be voted on earlier. Please support these amendments. I repeat once again for all of you, if possible support amendments B1, B2 and B3. Perhaps for those who are now in the buffet, in the State Acts etc., I repeat again, support amendments B1, B2, B3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u15	I thank Mr Jiří Junek. We are continuing the debate with Mr Michal Kučera's speech. So far, the last in writing entered into the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u16	Hello, thank you for your word. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of my speech I would like to speak briefly to my previous speaker, Mr Junek, through Mr President. Dear colleague, I would sign all your sentences if you were not a member of the government coalition that passed these laws. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to brief you on the opinion of the TOP 09 and the Mayor, which I would like to interpret here. First of all, I would like to comment on two amendments that I consider essential in this law. It is an amendment brought here by Mr Horáček, who clearly sets the criteria for limiting and measuring the smell. It is a matter that local politicians, in particular, face today and daily. It's the smell that spreads from the rendering machines. Smell that spreads from some agricultural products. But it's a smell that spreads from paint shops, from similar operations. For this account, there is quite a complex debate and a complex procedure to ensure that the smell does not bother citizens at all. I believe that most of you are also municipal politicians and have encountered the problem, and this amendment will give them the opportunity to solve the problem for the benefit of the community, for the benefit of the citizens. I also believe that, despite the fact that Minister Brabec has, for me, completely incomprehensiblely issued a disagreeable opinion on this amendment, so that you will still support it, so that there are clear values where the smell is already bothering. So that they are clearly measurable and that we can act clearly on this basis in the municipalities. I think this is very important and I believe in your support for Mr Horáček's amendment. As my colleague Horáček has already mentioned, it is absolutely smiling that the argument that sounds from Minister Brabec in the burning of garbage or waste in the boilers did not reflect a similar argument in the amendment that limits odor. Because the argument could have been exactly the same. The community needs a tool. The people need to be able to decide. The people need to act. This brings Mr Horáček's amendment to the smell without disturbing his personal freedom. Without restricting anyone to his rights, etc. [[10.50 hours]] The second amendment, which the TOP 09 and the starosta will support, is Mr Zahradník's amendment, which removes the encore from this originally European Union transposition standard, which has been added here by the Ministry of Environment. Please remember, when we say how many times we're more brussels than Brussels, similar phrases like the Pope's, etc. In this case, we will again attach something of our own creativity to the classic Euronorm. Once again, we restrict freedom, narrow space. Not Brussels, not the European Union, but the Czech Parliament, the Czech House. Let's think about that in the future, please. Once again, whoever votes in favour of this will, as they say, be more brussels than Brussels. The TOP 09 and the starosta will support Mr Zahradník's amendment, which removes the boilers, the boiler control, for several reasons. We, as the TOP 09 and the starosta, have included this law of Minister Brabec in the list of non-freedom. It is one of the other steps that we are gradually taking away our citizens' freedom and living space. Perhaps this law would fall apart. In the past parliamentary periods, maybe no one would have noticed him. When we place it next to each other, alongside other restrictions, alongside other bans, along with other orders, it creates the horrible image that this government brings and which these ministers bring in a restriction of personal freedom, a restriction of living space. Minister Brabec has confessed here that he does not know how to solve this problem. He's turning to us to help him. It is proof that Minister Brabec, and was not alone, came into his position unprepared and brought no visions here. As Minister Andrej Babiš has discovered socially excluded locations this week, Minister Brabec is saying that he does not know how to solve this problem otherwise than through major restrictions. That is, the simplest thing a legislator can bring. To limit, to ban is the easiest. This can be done in one sentence, one paragraph, and one does not have to be an expert. Of course, there are solutions. I will not name them all here, but they are a solution of course long-term, solutions that do not bring immediate effect to which Minister Brabec is focused, i.e. Spend and forbid. These are solutions that require work, require competence, require expertise, and unfortunately the result will not come for this government for several years, i.e. is unacceptable to this government. At least from this point of view, the way he acts. The solution, of course, lies, for example. in support of the entire heating system, i.e. promote wood heating, drying plants, warehouses, wood boilers, etc. Gradually change the system. I would like to point out that, for example, The gasification of the Ústí Region, which brought a significant reduction of just the births and negative phenomena, in the 1990s it cost just over 6 billion. Kč. I know it would be more than that today, of course, but the amount was totally ridiculous about what the ministries are spending today. And the benefit was very, very good. In conclusion, we will not support this law. We will not support it if the two amendments fail, i.e. Mr Horáček's amendment, whose usefulness I explained, and I believe that all, at least those who are municipal politicians, have understood his usefulness and usefulness, and of course we can never support the limitations of personal freedom, as Minister Brabec brings them to us. This is the opinion of the TOP 09 and the Mayor. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u17	I thank Mr Michal Kučer. The next party to the debate is Mr Petr Bendl. Is the rapporteur reporting to the final word or to the debate? Until the debate. Okay. In that case, a colleague of Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, allow me a few words on this subject, where we had a heated debate on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development on this unprecedented proposal, without a judicial decision to enter the dwelling. The Minister remembers the situations we experienced when he was still in ODS and he was in the D.O.D. that the issue, let's say, excluded localities, i.e. The territory with socially complex adapted citizens, there it was common to drown with all sorts of things. The moment there was any misdemeanor and those people were, if they had been identified, they came before the offense committee, they were fined, and it was said that they were moving with income to a social minimum, so they were told you, you, you, the next time we caught you, you'd get another fine, but since they couldn't take any funds, they were actually leaving with a smile, thinking something about the operation of this state, etc. And when we talked about this issue on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, we came to a similar one. That today, the vast majority of people who only have a little bit of money are looking for a way to drown cheaper and, at the same time, more environmentally friendly. But the problem with these social groups is that the funds are not there, nor will these people have the resources to buy new boilers. It's not a priority for them. For them, something else is a priority. And the moment you catch such a person, you give her a ticket, she doesn't pay it because she's at a social minimum, so it feels absolutely devastating towards people who follow the rules of the game and obey the laws of this country. That is why I am convinced that making this unprecedented decision and violating house freedom for not leading the majority to the goal is a mistake. That we should be looking for other solutions that not only Mr Kučera here spoke of, but a number of... Honza Zahradník and others, that we simply have to go the other way, which may be more complicated, but we do not have the precedent of allowing officials to enter their homes without a judicial decision, even with some dubious suspicion that may prove that this is not true. Rather, I think that this is a guide for dealing with interneighborish relationships that are absolutely ideal not everywhere. That much for yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u19	Thank you. Now, the rapporteur, still in the debate. A colleague of Zemek's, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u20	Thank you for the floor. I would not be a rapporteur at the moment, but as a regular ordinary Member, because I also have something to say on this issue. I didn't want to perform today, but again, there were some slightly untrue arguments. The whole debate has again gone on to preserve freedom or not to preserve home freedom. I have to say no. I know a bit of the practice because I worked before entering the House in the field of air protection, professional air protection. As I had the opportunity to study the bill or the novel, there's nothing about a commando coming in and kicking the door out and then breaking into the house. The procedure is, of course, governed by other standards, such as: Act on offenses. In the event that there is a suspicion of committing an offence, repeated infraction, the person will first be notified in writing to make a correction, thereby excluding, of course, the possible indictment of neighbors or revenge. Of course, people who make problems with trash burning are known in a particular village. And it's paradoxical that the mayor's deputy is sneaking around. But the mayors are the first to go to the office and beg the office to sort it out in some way. And the office has no choice. [[11.00 hours]] And here I would respond to one of the previous speakers who said that there would be some rapid increase in administration and costs. He won't. Even today, the clerk has to solve the case, except he won't solve it, because he just doesn't have evidence. I would like to mention that there is no area control, as there may be some misrepresentation here, but really exceptional cases where it is the last emergency brake, where there is nothing left, and it will only serve to obtain the underlying materials for the infringement procedure. Like I said, it's not gonna be like a squad coming in and kicking in the door. If the person who commits the offence doesn't allow entry, then of course no one will break in there by force, that is nonsense and I must reject it, there is no breach of house freedom. But we have to wonder if we will continue to tolerate such people. I'd like to deny the myth that they're just socially weaker. From practice I know cases that in this way e.g. some entrepreneurs have disposed of waste from their business. So the myth that they're just socially weaker people is wrong. So we're gonna let these people keep doing their offenses so they can just invade the village to harass the neighborhood, but they're gonna have 100% house freedom. I have to say no. I think if anyone breaks the law, they should be affected, not that there are laws here to break them. The other thing that was said here was a matter of smells. I have to say, the law is already on it, or the amendment will be on it. It was adopted at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment by an amendment by Senator Seitlová, where specific emission limits are introduced for odorous substances as well. So the instrument is already there, and it's a little cross-breeding with Mr Horáček's amendment, but the instrument really is already there. So the problem of smells is solved, even if it's more complicated than it seems. It's a fairly large amount of stuff that smells, smells something different to everyone or, as they say, smells. Some people may also have a problem with the products from the distillery, if alcohol is burned, someone doesn't mind. So it's not as simple, it's not as black and white as it looks at first. But I repeat, the instrument is already there and is currently included in the amendments adopted by the Committee on the Environment. So much for my contribution, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u21	Thank you, Mr Zemek. I have two factual points. First, Mr Michal Kučera and then Mr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u22	Thank you for the floor. I will only briefly respond to the words of my previous speaker, Mr Zemk. Mr President, I agree with you very much in principle. There are two freedoms, two rights - one right is home freedom, personal freedom, and on the other hand, the right to breathe clean air. I don't think I want anyone to pollute my air, to burn my trash. But unfortunately, this solution is the worst possible solution that Minister Brabec brings. And if he wanted to bring something like that, then why in God's name is there no possibility or obligation of a court order? Why is it left to some clerk, some kind of decision? Why isn't there a warrant? In all other cases, when we enter a home, there is a court order. There may be some exceptions, maybe there are exceptions to some extremist actions, but there is no extreme action. If you're saying this trial will be lengthy, what's the problem with getting a court order? And that's where Minister Brabec just skips it. He leaves it to some decision-making process of someone who decides that at this point he can enter that dwelling. And if no one's gonna let him in, what's gonna happen? Well, they're gonna go to the trial anyway. Why isn't it in this law? Well, because it's simple because it's fast, because that's the way this government works - only for effect, for nothing else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u23	I thank Mr Michal Kučer. Now, Mr. MP... And so we've been multiplying the actual notes. Mr. Bendl, colleague Horáček, Černochová, Adamec, Zemek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u24	My colleague Böhnisch also provoked me to two comments. The first one where he argued that a businessman also burned some waste somewhere. I guess what he means is that what a businessman, the bad guy, who burns all sorts of things, etc. He knows for himself that for an entrepreneur, this state has so many whips to destroy it, how to destroy it, and this is another one that just makes up, and redundant, absolutely. First of all. And secondly, what I've been trying to point out here is that the mayor, as you said, can't solve the problem. The mayor will be fined before the criminal commission of the persons concerned who commit such an offence, but they won't pay the fine because they'll be at their social minimum, so they'll laugh and smile again. And the result will be that the citizens will say to the mayor: you haven't done anything about it, and yet you have the law. And here the government will say, well, we've put a law in your hands that solves it. But you're not really gonna figure it out. It's just not a way to solve it, at the cost of breaking house freedom. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u25	Thank you for keeping time. Mr. Václav Horáček is now there. [[The rapporteur's going to the microphone.]] Mr rapporteur, I understand, but you are signed up for a point of fact and a point of fact - one more time I will read the order: Mr Horáček, Mrs Černochová, Mr Adamec, and then you are Mr Adamec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I have no choice but to respond, of course, to the rapporteur. I mentioned mine when I was talking, that I could see that it was getting tougher. But frankly, the tightening up of the senator you adopted doesn't solve anything. There's no value there. And if the criteria are not clear, then of course this will go around again, and it will do no good for cities, municipalities and residents of these cities and municipalities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u27	Thank you. Now Mrs Jana Černochová also makes a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. In addition to Mr Kučera's speech, I would just like to recall the not so long ago past of this House, when we were discussing the arms law here, and this government, as in the previous case, in the arms law, broke home freedom. Without the state's attorney's consent, without the judge's consent, it is possible for a police officer who holds reasonable suspicion that someone intends to commit something legally held by a weapon to enter the residence. And it wasn't that long ago, I think it was three or four months ago, it was before the holidays, we were performing a lot here. So breaking home freedom is a kind of hobby for this government, a kind of step that they consider to be a step in the right direction. Of course, I do not share this either, because, of course, most of you know that I also operate in municipal policy, and as mayor, I cannot imagine how this authorisation will be enforceable in practice. [[Thank you, now...]] Excuse me, one last point. As I said, it is unconstitutional to break home freedom without the consent of a prosecutor or a judge, so I believe that even in this case it is a violation of the constitutional rights of citizens of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u29	Thank you. Now, Mr Ivan Adamec, on a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Then he's a colleague of Zemek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u30	Thank you for the floor. Perhaps the introduction - here was the word "Member Böhnisch." When I look at Mr Zemk and Mr Böhnisch, I do not know how confusion can occur. The one with the long tail is the rapporteur. It's just an introduction, I'm sorry. I would say that life creates certain paradoxes and sometimes it's surprising. It's been said that people are asking for boiler subsidies, so-called boiler subsidies, when they want to improve their relationship with heating, of course, to the environment voluntarily. But I also add - who always asks for it and asks me for it, I say yes, it's a good thing, but you have to realize that one day a civil servant comes to check it directly into your home, and you voluntarily commit to letting him in, because otherwise they're gonna take it away from you, and you're gonna pay the other costs that were linked to the subsidy. And on the other hand, we say that those who aren't interested just don't want to, so they don't even want the house search. But here's the problem, is that there really is a question of whether this path is the right one. I'm saying again, if anyone... And we're obviously not gonna figure this out today. We're gonna vote on it, we're not gonna figure it out. But if someone is really rock solidly convinced about this, and I don't think it should be, that search without a court order, then the only way is to just turn to whoever decides it, and that's in this state Constitutional Court, and submit to his verdict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u31	Thank you. My colleague Zemek has a point of fact, so we should exhaust her. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u32	Thank you. I would first respond to my colleague Bendl. It concerns what has been said here about entrepreneurs. So there's no mistake. I said they're known from the practice of some cases. I would like to say that 99.9 percent of other entrepreneurs are honest and everyone follows the rules. So I certainly wouldn't generalize it. I have to say no. Secondly, the question of whether or not this is a breach of home freedom. We can argue about this here, let everyone take a picture of themselves. I don't think we'll agree on that. I don't think it's a home invasion. The official person concerned will not be there until two written announcements have been made, twice in writing. He's not gonna go in there violently. If this were to be a court order, then we are discussing whether to give a court order, for example, when checking gas meters, etc. I think it's unrealistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u33	Thank you. I don't have an application for a debate, and nobody's checking in. I'm done with the conversation. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Yes, Minister. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u34	Thank you, Mr President. My colleagues, my colleagues, I was not surprised by the debate in most cases, because we've had it repeatedly, I know the arguments. I don't think I can convince some of you, but I will try again. I would really just say a few things in a nutshell. I shall begin with my colleague Klan, by your means, Mr President. The issue today is that the quality of fuels is solved by the Czech Trade Inspection. Even on its website has a precise procedure as to how the buyer should proceed if they purchase poor-quality fuel. And in this case, if there was really a check-up because the person bought low-quality fuel in public distribution, that would certainly be taken into account in that check-up. Definitely. That means that then the responsibility would really be on the supplier, because he sold low-quality fuel. Each boiler has some clear parameters, which should just burn there, and we also dealt with the Czech Commercial Inspection. They said it would be solvable this way. In other words, the fine wouldn't have been on the person at the time, because he would have shown some specific receipt that he bought the fuel, and then, of course, maybe next time he wouldn't have taken it from the company. But certainly in such a case, if he had such evidence, that fine or penalty should not be imposed. To Mr Zahradník, my colleague, by your means, Mr President. My colleague, these boiler subsidies really are focused on the worst boilers. That's the 1st and 2nd emission class. The problem is that the boiler subsidies will not cover the total number of old boilers, which are more than the 100 grand we will be able to cover from the boiler subsidies, and we will certainly be looking for more money. Already here, colleague Zemek, and thank you for that, even from the practical practice, he said several times that the option that some of you are using, as if there's going to be some squad with rams, is, of course, pointless. The audit will be carried out strictly under the Control Act, according to the Control Regulations. And there are exactly the procedures described. So we refer only to the relevant legislation as such a check takes place. You have repeatedly mentioned, that means more than twice - I will now jump in to my colleague Kučer, through you. Well, co-worker Kučera's coming now, I'm glad. He amused me again. Because he said there were a lot of solutions, but he didn't say any. All he said was that there should be gasification. This thing has just a small problem, my colleague, by your means, Mr President, that the gas connections have been abandoned by people precisely because they are expensive natural gas. And I don't know if the TOP 09 is going to suggest that these people should contribute to natural gas to exploit it. Because there are 300,000 unused gas connections in the Czech Republic. At the time, the decision was probably good, just like when people were motivated to drown here by electric current, but the electricity got more expensive. So these are already market mechanisms. I think that the system of boiler subsidies clearly shows that we are trying to positively motivate people so that with great subsidies they can get the new modern boiler. But we can hardly subsidize their fuel. At that point, of course, if you think that I have no solution or that I'm coming up with the worst solution, that many months of debate with a number of experts was really about whether even this relatively extreme solution for me is the only way, even in the preventive effect, if we have any other technical options. And unfortunately, of all the debates, including foreign models - Poland, etc., and Germany - it just turned out that there is no other evidence of credible evidence of waste incineration so far. And I'm not denying that they could be in a few years, and maybe we can really deal with that with the drones in a few years. But I'm afraid I can't right now. So I would just expect you to say that there are a number of conceptual solutions, that you will also name them. But you've been tactically avoiding them, which leads me to conclude that it's probably not that easy with these conceptual solutions. To my colleague Horáček through you, Mr President. Thank you for mentioning that it is there - that is, the A2 proposal in the framework of amendments that tightens up, actually empowers the relevant decree so that the problem of smells can be dealt with better. The problem of smells is very difficult to solve throughout Europe precisely because the smell is a parameter that is objectively very badly secured. We have also taken a detachment of foreign models, and I must say that experience in the Czech Republic between 2002 and 2006 has clearly shown that it is very complicated to have some defined parameters. Because they completely didn't do their purpose. That is why we think that the authorisation should be in the regional authorities and in the decree. It's part of a longer discussion. The proposal put forward by Mr Horáček is very extensive. I must say that there are a number of issues missing, such as how the responsible operator will be identified, who will pay for the measurement, processing of the dispersion study, etc., etc. Above all, there is a completely consistent assessment of the impact of the amendment. So this is definitely going to be a debate going on. We believe that Amendment A2 is tightening up the decree and part of the problems will be addressed. And I'm getting to the conclusion. I think that my colleague, Mr Zemek, has already partly responded to Mr Junek's response to the fact that the bureaucracy will not really bring increased costs, because they are already there today. Only that in the finals, the investigation just goes away because there's no way to close it. And the untouchability - yes, it's a constant question. We are not convinced, and not just us at the Ministry of the Environment, but I think it is a matter that we have just discussed with constitutional lawyers that the inviolability of dwellings is not limitless. It's always about balancing the constitutional rights. And as it has been said here, there is a constitutional right to a favourable environment that no one would take. And if my colleague Bendl says, "Well, they're actually the people who don't pay anyway," then let's resign completely. Then the question is, what are we going to do? If someone who's socially weak drives fast or has some total wreckage like the car, we say, "We'll wave our hand and say, "Well, we can't use the money on him anyway, so we won't comment on it"? I think that's exactly the resignation of a state I wouldn't want to support. And I am just reminding you completely that even colleagues from the opposition were actually preparing similar solutions, virtually. Minister Chalupa sought similar solutions, Minister Chalupa for ODS. In the end, it did not pass, nor did it pass through the interdepartment, because it was not constitutionally conformal, but it was intended to meet the mayors, because the mayors behind ODS and TOP 09, of course, bombed their Members to deal with the matter, and there was an effort to address it. So she didn't quite make it, and I daresay we've made it to that position that's balanced. [[11.20 hours]] I understand that it raises some debate, but I believe that the vast majority of these cases will eventually be resolved by this preventive character and that the control of their own, when it really comes to domestic control, will be minimal. And it's a contribution to improving the environment. And I'm actually convinced that if we resign and say that we don't care what our kids breathe - and that there's that residue in the old house boilers' scraps - I don't want to be there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u35	I thank the Minister for his final word. I'm asking the rapporteur if he's interested in the final word. He does. Then with priority rights Miroslav Kalousek and Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u36	Thank you, I will try to be brief and summarize what this is about. This is mostly a transposition amendment, where there are about 70 minor modifications and changes, which have occurred over time and due to various other laws. There are four fundamental changes against the original law. Firstly, it is the tightening of the limits on dust particles since 2020. It is then a harmonisation of the problems of low emission zones, respectively. low-emission plaques to be compatible with the surrounding states. Thirdly, this is a clarification when declaring smog situations where the whole system is flexible. Probably the most discussed change concerns the possibility of checking local heating sites in justified cases and exceptional cases. That's what the novel's all about. I can say for myself that I consider these changes to be beneficial and positive, and therefore I support this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u37	I thank the rapporteur for his final report. This is also the end of the negotiation phase, but I have now with priority the President of the TOP 09 and then the President of the ODS. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, please allow us, because we are no longer in the debate, in order to respond very briefly to the final word of the Minister, who listed one argument by Member and dealt with it in his own way. Including the fact that some of them even entertained him. Allow me, Minister, to tell you that you, in principle, amused us. Because before the new order started, it used to be a gentleman's custom in this House that if the minister and the petitioner wanted to deal with the arguments of their opponents, he did so during the debate to give them the opportunity to explain his argument or to tell him why the minister was wrong. You're not really doing that, I think, programically, basically, the whole government. It is not entirely fair, it is not even brave and above all it reveals great professional uncertainty in the argument. So since the Members of the TOP 09 who have spoken here and whom you have appointed in your final speech cannot speak, let me give you their opinion on their behalf that your counter-arguments against their speeches have been unqualified, incompetent, and I recommend to the Chamber of Deputies not to follow your arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u39	Thank you. Now Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u40	Mr Vice-President, Minister, I would like to call on you to open the debate and give a chance to those who have used expert arguments in the debate so that they can respond to your final word. I think President Kalousek said it exactly. In fact, you have taken advantage of the possibility of the Rules of Procedure, I fully respect that. But you didn't give them a chance. Yesterday, when you forgot to load a shorter deadline for another government bill, you opened the debate. It wasn't you, but it was your government colleague. I'd like to challenge you to that. You're not afraid of the arguments. And it's really unfair. Maybe you didn't do it on purpose. I'm optimistic you didn't realize. By keeping your speeches to the final floor, not to the debate, those who do not have the right of priority cannot speak at this time and would like to speak at the same time. And before the final vote, they would like to convince Members of the correctness of their amendments, possibly to state and explain their arguments. It's in your hands, of course. We don't. All we can do is appeal to you. But I think it would be okay. We've been doing this law for quite a long time. I think for ten minutes, I'm sure it won't be longer, we can still do that. This is a serious intervention in civil liberties. I think before the vote, those who don't have the same opinion as you might have the same chance. Because you responded to their performance, somehow you graded them, some of them you rejected, actually you rejected them all. So please give them a chance. I'm just challenging you like this. There's nothing else I can do. Because I do not consider it dignified to take paper from my colleagues and I read it when it is their work, their preparation and their expert arguments. Thank you for your kindness.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u41	Thank you, Prime Minister. Before we go any further, I'll read the apology. Mrs Berdychová apologizes 7. 9. from 12 o'clock until the end of the meeting, the next days will be read in the next days. Mrs. Hnyková apologizes from 14:30 to 19:00 today. And a colleague, Fiedler, from 2:30 p.m. to the end of the day for personal reasons. I'm asking if the Minister wants to respond to the challenge. He does. This will reopen the debate. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u42	I respond to my colleague Stanjura's correct call, unlike my opinion, the lack of correct communication from my colleague Kalousek, but that did not surprise me. So thank you for that and, of course, I'm not afraid of the arguments, I'm happy to respond to them, and I consider it an important standard. So, of course, if there's any other way you want to react to it, I'd be happy to hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u43	Thank you. This reopened the debate. But we are already beginning with factual remarks in this order: Mr Opálka, Bendl, Zahradník, Horáček, Junek. So the first is Mr Miroslav Opálka, with a factual remark after the reopened debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would just like to draw the Minister's attention when he spoke of the problem that the increase in gas has complicated this clean energy to make more use of it, that the issue of the limits on brown coal mining in Mosteck will complicate the situation for those who have boilers on K2. Because it will gradually occur and we will have to import it if we want the owners of these boilers to continue to operate it. So it's just a matter of seemingly unrelated Margo, that even this reaction from the government, when talking about mining limits, will have an impact on what and how it's going to drown ecologically in our republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u45	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Petr Bendl's point of order now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u46	Thank you for the floor and for allowing me to comment on what the Minister said here, for he interpreted my words by saying that I said here that we would resign to any solution. I didn't say anything like that. I said, let's look for a solution that's gone down here. For example, to be specific, looking for a possible chance to return a PET bottle, that someone would get some kind of financial means. Because if you look at how PET bottles are messed up with any territory, then maybe it would help. It's one of the things that might be complicated, but it would definitely help. We who drive every year to clean Berounka can tell about it and prove it stacks of different PET bottles that copy our watercourses. First of all. [[11.30 hours]] So please don't interpret my words by saying here, "Let's resign to any solution." That's not true. I didn't say anything like that. And then I apologize to my colleague Zemek for making him Böhnisch, but it wasn't an intention. I'm sorry to both of you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u47	I therefore thank Mr Bendl. And now, with a factual remark, my colleague Jan zahradník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, I will just briefly comment on what I may have already mentioned. But the Minister repeatedly insisted in his final words that we state what method we want to use for the detection of pollutants, what sophisticated scientific-technical method we want to use. I must say that he is the one who has a great ministerial capacity at his disposal. I don't mean scientific, but organizational, administrative, people who should know whether there are various scientific workplaces at universities, universities, research institutes that may be dealing with this. I have information that this is the case that they have methods by which, so-called remotely, pollution could be detected and shown to be registered. Just enter this research task, possibly implement its use if such research has already been completed. That's all I have to say. Otherwise, I ask again to support the amendment under letter B. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u49	I thank Mr Zahradník. Mr Václav Horáček, now with a factual remark. A colleague of Junek will prepare himself, also with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, if you said you were amused by Michal Kučera, then you amused me again because you said that my material was very comprehensive and complex. I would show my colleagues that it is two points very brief. If that's what you meant by the explanatory note, then I understand. When you said some things weren't done, I don't know whether you read the material or the justification from second reading, because I was clearly saying here that this amendment and the law should be a follow-up decree or methodological instruction, which will further clarify how the authorities will proceed. I think it was included in what the senator had. There was another procedure. Of course, they weren't specific, because if you don't know what passes and doesn't pass, you can't make any more specific suggestions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u51	I thank Mr Horáček. Now Mr Jiří Junek's final factual remark, is also signed in with a proper application by Mr Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u52	Thank you. I've been appointed, so I'll respond. The Minister said that I said that the measure of Section 17 would mean increased administration. He says it won't be like that. So let's just do it again real quick. This means that he comes to the office of reporting, the official has to deal with it, he sends a challenge, he has to prove what he's drowning, and so on and so on. The official shall once again accept the reply, evaluate it and rewrite it to the person concerned as to how the evaluation turned out. There's going to be a new report, there's going to be another official, there's going to be a check, there's not enough one official, there's gotta be two officials, they're going to go to your apartment, I assume they're going to make a note of the inspection again, they're going to take a sample, they're going to send it somewhere, they're going to cost a sample, they're going to have to evaluate it again, and so on. Don't tell me there's no increased bureaucracy and administration. After all, the explanatory memorandum stated that the impacts on the budgets of municipalities would be and would be increased. There was no amount. It wasn't there, but it said it meant increasing financial expenditure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u53	I thank Mr Junek for his time on the point of fact. And now, with a proper application in the reopened debate, Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u54	Hello, thank you for your word. I thank Minister Brabco for the opportunity to speak once more and to respond to his words. I'll only get off briefly. I said here last time that Minister Brabec does not come up with long-term solutions, that he does not come up with conceptual solutions, that he only works on the effect that he is looking for a short-term solution, that is to exhaust and prohibit. That he has the same style of work as Andrej Babiš, who discovered excluded locations this week. That's what we have competent ministers when they find it this week! I want to respond factually to the two things that he has said here, and quite untruely, in the final words, Minister Brabec. First of all, he said gasification is the way. I never mentioned gasification as such that it was a solution that would bring us some major improvement in the future. I said that this was an example from the last century, an example from the 1990s, when they had the courage to come up with some conceptual solution, and in a situation where they all went into brown coal, they were then gassed. So it's more of an inspirational thing. I am really concerned that Minister Brabec will come up with no other solution than to ban them, and calls on opposition Members to come up with their solutions. I also mentioned the solution. It's the promotion of a different type of heating than fossil fuels. Because you all know that, and Minister Brabec knows that, I do not suspect that he does not know that the fuel is the first thing that matters. Second place depends on the mode of heating and third place then depends on the topidle itself. And support, if Minister Brabec wants any help from opposition politicians, because he himself is clueless, it is the promotion of heating, for example by wood, support for drying plants, municipal drying plants, support for municipal warehouses. Minister Brabec is an expert on handing out money among people, on drawing subsidies, so let him direct the money in this direction to make it worthwhile for people to drown high-quality dry wood to make it worthwhile to go to municipal dryers to buy wood boilers. Because just changing the system is the solution, not punishing those who don't even have the power to buy proper fuel. Perhaps I will no longer speak on this subject, because I just felt the need to comment on the fact that we are promoting some methods here that are not entirely according to the idea of the Ministry of Environment. I would really like to call on Minister Brabec to focus the remaining year by the end of the parliamentary term on the long-term conceptual plans that he may leave for his next term, perhaps his successor, but he will leave something behind. At this point, all he leaves behind are bans, orders, and restrictions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u55	Thank you. That was Mr Kučera, but he raised another point of fact - a colleague of Josef Hájek, to whom I will give the floor on a factual point. I believe that this will be the last application for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u56	Mr President, colleagues, unfortunately, Shadow Minister of Environment Kučera has lifted me from the chair. I told the Minister you would be punished for good deed. When he responded to Mr Stanjura's call, I expected a substantive expert debate, a debate. Of course Mr. Kučera didn't deny himself. I want to say this: Mr Honourable Chairman TOP 09 has thousands of hectares of forests, so you can begin. It can begin by making its forests available to citizens, it can give citizens or small pubs, which, thanks to EET in quotation marks, will probably fight for survival, wood, can supply them with wood, can drown ecologically, and it will certainly bring the desired effect that Mr. Shadow Minister Kučera is talking about. [[11.40 hours]] Anyway, I think the Minister and the Ministry, including the State Environmental Fund, are doing a lot of good work. Because it didn't say here that the essential and best way to help the environment is not to drown, i.e. Warm up. We have the New Green Savings program, which really gives us the opportunity to heat up and thus reduce the energy intensity of heating. I will follow up on Mr. Bendl, who spoke - let's not make laws, because the inadaptables will bypass them anyway. I have a suggestion. Our coalition partners are promoting social housing. So let's give them housing with central heating, and that way this problem will be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u57	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. This has exhausted the reopened debate. And I'm asking if there's interest in the final words again. It's not like that anymore. So we can move on. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote on the amendments. I ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure, to present individual amendments and to give an opinion before the vote. I'll ask the Minister for the same thing. Mr rapporteur, please, it's up to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u58	So I would first introduce you to the resolution of the Environment Committee on which it was adopted -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u59	But I'm gonna interrupt you. I ask the House for peace! We are already at a stage when we will decide on proposals that have been discussed here in a very long and detailed manner. And I ask you to concentrate and let the rapporteur do your job. Wait a minute, Mr. Rapporteur... I really insist that the House calm down. Thank you, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u60	At its meeting, the Committee on the Environment recommended the Chamber of Deputies to vote in the following order. First of all, legislative technical comments, adjustments, but they didn't come out here, so we can drop this point. Secondly, on proposals A1 to A7 and A9, which were proposals that went through and received a positive opinion on the Committee on the Environment. Furthermore, there is an indicative vote on point A8, where there are two variants. And after an indicative vote, the option that will win more votes will be put to the vote again. Fifth draft A10. Then follow the amendments tabled by individual colleagues at second reading - Mr Zahradník's proposal under letters B1 to B3, followed by Mr Horáček's proposal from C1 to C2 and, thirdly, by Mr Junek D1 to D2. I may yet say briefly what these amendments are about, so that we know what we are voting on. The A series that passed the committee, A1 through A7. A1 is the specification in footnote, A2 is the mentioned issue of odorous substances, when specific odour limits, emission limits, are introduced to odorous substances. A3 is the mitigation of pollution calculation requirements for back-up sources. These are resources that only work 300 hours a year, now it's 500 hours a year. There are further clarifications regarding the smog situations in point A4. Point A5 specifying the competences of the environmental inspection. A6 supplementing the list, who will be notified during smog situations - there are some other entities. Then we get to point A8, where there are two variants, where variant A.II basically preserves the current state and A.II (?) specifies, for the incorporation obligations of biofuels, what are the parameters to allow it to be mixed, what types. It was a request from the Customs Administration when certain complications occurred, when some types were e.g. have been applied several times repeatedly or have been applied in other countries of the European Union. So it's a clarification. But I repeat, if this A8.I doesn't pass, there's an A8.II variant that maintains the current state. Then here we have point A9, which specifies the tables in Annex 10, where only the headings are adjusted. It's in Part I and Part II. Then there's point A10 that regulates efficiency. Then they follow the points from my colleague Zahradník, who basically release the already mentioned possibility of checking local heating sites. The same is basically the proposal made by my colleague, Junek. And Mr Horáček's amendments are under letter C. As has already been said here, it affects the problem of odorous substances, which, however, is partly addressed by the point A2, which has been passed by the Committee on the Environment. So much for the amendments. There was probably no alternative proposal, so...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u61	I'll ask if anyone has any comment on the proposed procedure for voting. It's not like that. We are voting for the procedure in the vote number 67 that I launched, and I ask who agrees with the proposal for the voting procedure. Who opposes the rapporteur's proposal? Thank you. Voting order number 67, from 178 in favour of 168, against no one. The procedure has been approved. We can therefore begin, Mr rapporteur, with a first vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u62	So as the first vote, we will vote on points A1 to A7 and at the same time on point A9. The opinion is positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u63	Mr. Secretary? [[Positive.]] I've started a 68-order vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 68, from 178 in favour of 164, against no one. The motion was accepted. We can continue, another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u64	We would now vote on the variant A8.I. The opinion is positive, perhaps a little more positive than the second variant II.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u65	Okay. [[With a smile.]] Everyone himself will certainly assess the degree of positiveness in the vote individually. Mr. Secretary? [[We prefer variant I.]] I've opened an indicative vote on variant number I. (Vote order number 69.) I've started the vote. Who's in? Since there is an indicative vote, I do not ask who is opposed. Thank you. From 178 to 170. Now, therefore, the indicative vote on variant number II in vote number 70, which I have begun. I'm asking who's for option 2. Thank you. In the vote order number 70 of 178 for 1. So we're going to vote on variant I in point A8, in vote number 71, which I just started, and I'm going to ask who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 71, from 178 in favour of 171, against no one. Variant A8.I has been accepted. We can continue, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u66	Now it's point A10. Opinion positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u67	Mr. Secretary? [[Positive.]] I've begun the vote on order number 72, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 72. 178 for 171 Members present, against no one. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u68	Now it's going to be points B1 through B3. Opinion negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u69	We will decide in the vote number 73, which I have begun, and I ask who is for B1 to B3. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 73. From the present 178 for 56, versus 96. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u70	We will now vote on points C1 through C2. Opinion negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u71	I've started voting number 74 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 74. From the present 178 for 45, against 115. The motion was not accepted. Then we can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u72	Then there is design D1 to D2, which is very similar to design B1 to B3. Opinion negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u73	We will decide in the vote number 75, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 75. From the present 178 for 56, versus 100. The proposal was not accepted either. Have we exhausted all the amendments, Mr rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u74	Yes, so we should vote on the proposal as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-003-209.u75	Yes, in that case, when all the proposals have been voted on, we will proceed to the vote on the whole bill proposal. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's draft law amending Act No. 201/2012 Coll., on Air Protection, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on Administrative Fees, as amended, pursuant to House Press No. 678, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies.' I've started voting number 76 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 76. From the present 178 for 115, against 48. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you to the Minister of the Environment, thank you to the rapporteur and end with paragraph 209. We will continue with the point
