ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u1	163. Government bill on public procurement / House print 637/ - third reading I ask that the rapporteur's desk take the position of the secretary who is already there. I also ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, which is the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I ask Mr Pleticha to settle next to the Minister. The amendments are published in the press 637/6. It was delivered to you on January 29th. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as press 637/7 and 8. I will ask the Minister if he wishes to speak at this stage. That's right. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor. [[Noise in the hall.]] I ask all colleagues to settle down, keep quiet and listen to the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have already discussed the Government Bill on Public Procurement in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, the Economic Committee and the Constitutional Legal Committee. In January, his second reading took place in the Chamber of Deputies, where other amendments were tabled, and then the proposal was repeatedly discussed in the Guarantee Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Let me thank all the Members who have participated in the settlement and communication on the amendments from this point of view. I am aware that even the guarantee committee, the second part of it, was convened unstandardly, on Tuesday at seven o'clock. I am also very pleased with the President and the leadership of this committee. I would like to remind you that this law is a very important standard for the whole Czech Republic. The aim of the law is to ensure fair rules for the selection of suppliers. Just fair and even competitions can achieve efficiency and efficiency in public investment. I would like to mention that we are presenting this law here for one key reason, namely the transposition of three European directives on procurement and review procedures, where by 18 April all Member States should have their legislation in effect. The bill significantly reduces bureaucracy, both for the contracting authority and for suppliers. At the same time, procurement procedures will be significantly more flexible. We will strengthen flexibility, but of course we also bring a strengthening of the responsibility of the contracting authority. On the other hand, the law is intended mainly for those who want to enter economically and efficiently. The proposal has been submitted in preparation and in previous committee discussions, a very strong debate for which I thank everyone. Although there are many conflicting interests, opinions and, of course, interest groups in public procurement, I must say that our efforts have been directed, and always since the beginning, actually the existence and writing of this law has been aimed at making the rules balanced. On the one hand, it fulfils the principle of transparency strongly and also allows for this flexible procedure. I must say that the Ministry of Regional Development, as the law's promoter, is well aware of the risk that this is a new standard and can be expected to be a genuinely natural mistrust of everyone to whom the law is addressed. Of course, we will not prevent this, but we will try to prevent it and explain it and make a great education for this law. For smaller contracts, the rules remain the same. So we don't see the reason for any concern. Contracting entities may take advantage of the experience they already have from the existing law and its 22 amendments. [[23?]] We do not change the limits for the smallest orders and at the same time the contracting authority is called. By simplified sublimation procedure, there are basically rules that remain almost identical. On the other hand, the contracting authorities will have many new options for the procedure. The committee discussions resulted in the recommendation of the Committees to approve the law, but in the wording of the proposed amendments. I will mention here the number of amendments we have been through. 13 for the Economic Committee, 5 for the Constitutional Committee, 154 for the Public Administration and Regional Development Committee, which is the Guarantee Committee. 190 amendments were then tabled at second reading in the Chamber of Deputies. It should be noted that a third of these amendments were almost duplicated, so the number of amendments...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u3	Colleagues, colleagues, I really ask for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u4	Indeed, the number of amendments has fallen very much. On Tuesday evening there was a second meeting of the guarantee committee, which dealt with all the amendments tabled and adopted its opinion on them. In the case of most of the proposals, and for that we are really happy and thank you on behalf of the Ministry for Regional Development, our recommendations have been respected. In several cases, however, an opinion was adopted recommending amendments with which the Ministry of Regional Development expressed a fundamental opposition. Of course, I leave the decision to the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to mention here what the cases are. This is the amount of the fees for the complaint to the Antimonopoly Office. You are aware that the guarantee committee has recommended to the Chamber of Deputies for approval an amendment proposing the introduction of a fee for the submission of one complaint to the UOHS amounting to CZK 10,000. The Ministry of Regional Development is able to agree with the principle. However, the amount seems high to us and the fee is, of course, non-refundable. The decision is in the Chamber of Deputies. Another of the very key points that I would like to mention here, I said so at second reading, but since the committee voted in the amendment despite our fundamental opposition, I have to comment on this. This is an advantage in the quotes of the persons affected. [[9.10 hours]] The guarantee committee recommended an amendment that allows employers of disabled people to benefit by automatic advantages of protected workshops or similar employers by reducing the price by 15 per cent in the evaluation. I would like to declare and guarantee here that the Ministry of Regional Development is in no way opposed to the support of companies employing disabled people and in no way against disabled people. However, the practice shows that this proposal and what is now happening throughout the Czech Republic in the process of automatic preferential treatment do not lead to the proper performance of the entire contract. At the moment suppliers who win the contract automatically thanks to this advantage, obviously not all of them, but those cases are, sell or hire subcontractors who perform the contract and who do not employ disabled persons. This institute is not included in the government's proposal because it has been abused many times in the past. The Ministry of Regional Development disagrees with this and we have balanced the possibility of using so-called. social criteria. This means that the contracting authority itself puts in the procurement procedure such social criteria as to state whether it needs and whether the disabled are able to carry out the contract. This means for the type of tenders such as office supplies, for example tilting them or something, the contracting authority itself can say that this can be done by protected workshops, this can be done by disabled people. This means that he will receive five offers from companies that employ all disabled people, and then the competition will be among them. But it won't be that they'll be automatically favored. So, on the contrary, this approach of social criteria really seems better and more transparent. Another amendment that went through ministerial disapproval is the deadline for the submission of objections against the procurement documents. The Committee recommended a shortening of the deadline for the submission of objections against the procurement documents. Historically, that period shall end five days after the end of the period for the submission of tenders. However, in the amendment, this deadline is shortened and its end is set at the end of the deadline for the submission of tenders. We do not agree with this change, both with regard to the fundamental negative views of the co-gestor, i.e. The competition authority, as well as having regard to the need to provide sufficient room for suppliers to become familiar with the procurement documents. [[There's a constant heavy noise in the hall.]] Another thing, that is the fourth amendment that the Ministry does not really agree with, and that is to abolish the possibility of taking measures to remedy the Office for the Protection of Competition. Repeal of the possibility of taking measures to remedy the ÚOHS by repealing the contracting authority's act or the entire procurement procedure, unless the contracting authority decides within a period of objection. This proposal was also recommended by the Guarantee Committee in spite of the critical dissenting position of the Ministry of Regional Development and the Antimonopoly Office. The possibility of imposing corrective measures is an institute that ensures the timely settlement of objections and the amendment would abolish such safeguards. I would also like to mention here other risky topics that have been most subject to discussion, but on these points the opinion of the MMR and the Gesture Committee does not conflict. However, it is necessary for me to draw attention to them at the third reading. Change of contract, this means additional work, it is very discussed § 222 - in quotation marks 30, 50 %. There was a big debate about this, which is still leading to changes in the treaty. The subject of the debate is whether we will tighten the rules laid down by the directives at national level. The Ministry of Regional Development expressed a neutral position on these changes, and I also stated at second reading that I would have a neutral position on these amendments. The reasons are legitimate and they are not against the directives, so there is no reason to contradict us. In this case, the Ministry of Regional Development is ready to support a solution on which a broader consensus will be reached. I would also like to draw attention to one thing, which may be very key, which would really lead to an increase in corruption in the Czech Republic in the award of tenders, and this is one of the amendments - an increase in the limit for small-scale concessions from 20 to 100 million. Here I must say that the guarantee committee has not accepted this amendment, but it is my duty to draw your attention to any risks that would arise from the adoption here of the plenary from this amendment. It can be expected that no one would put up CZK 100 million by means of the Public Procurement Act anymore, but they would go in the form of concessions, i.e. without a tender and an exception from the law. Of course, that cannot be agreed with. Another key amendment is to abolish the obligation to impose redress measures if the Autonomous Office finds that the contracting authority has not decided on objections. These are amendments M3 and M4. This proposal was also recommended by the Guarantee Committee in spite of the substantial disagreement of the Ministry for Regional Development and the substantial disagreement of the Office for the Protection of Competition. This amendment goes against the conceptual intention of the whole regulation in the new law, which aims to strengthen the institute of objections as a basic building block to make public procurement supervision more effective. In fact, the contracting authorities would be able not to deal with the objections and leave them to the competition authority. Here I have to say that any contracting authority would use this and no one would ever look at the objections at all, and everything would go to the UOHS. The draft law is based on the belief that problems should be addressed especially where their solution is the simplest, and therefore between the contracting authority and the supplier. Therefore, in principle, the subject matter of proceedings before the UOHS should not be a problem or dispute to which the contracting authority has not previously expressed itself. This is very important, please. This objective is achieved by imposing an obligation on the contracting authority to settle objections in a timely and verifiable manner, while the provisions proposed by the amendment provide for such an obligation. The amendment would thus easily enable the whole legal structure to be circumvented by the contracting authority not having properly dealt with the objections. The proposed change would also have a fundamental impact on the effectiveness of the work of the Office for the Protection of Competition, which would de facto be forced, in accordance with the principle of material truth, to actively seek arguments which would testify to the legality of the procedure of the contracting authority, in a situation where he himself did not make any such arguments. So we would get into a lot of trouble on our own, because he resigned entirely to his duty to settle the objections. As a result, the adoption of the amendment in question would lead to a very significant and completely unjustified deviation of the legislation for the benefit of the contracting authority. This, of course, goes against the concept of the entire bill on public procurement. I would also like to mention that this amendment has been adopted by the Guarantee Committee and I would very much like to go there for reversing this position, because the reasons I have mentioned here are very fundamental and very key. Of course, another risk amendment, or the amendment, which will be discussed here, and it is necessary for the Ministry of Regional Development to comment on it in my introductory words, is the ban on the participation of government members in public procurement. Here I would like to say very briefly, because I have spoken about this at second reading, that this is a proposal which is contrary to European law. In one case, the Court of Justice of the European Union held that similar measures were disproportionate, since companies did not even have the opportunity to demonstrate that there was no conflict of interest. Therefore, it is not possible to automatically prohibit participation in public procurement to those suppliers owned by, for example, a member of the government. If it turns out that such a supplier is in conflict of interest, then the bill allows such a supplier to be excluded in the absence of a more moderate measure. Here I must say that we have strengthened our law precisely to look for possible conflicts of interest, which is, for example, the unfolding of the ownership structure of the winning candidate. The Government's proposal addresses this issue, and widely, in the provisions precisely on conflicts of interest, where we are more stringent than the European directives require. The contracting authority shall always be obliged to exclude those persons in conflict of interest from the decision-making process or influence on the procurement. If, on the basis of information on the beneficial owners of the selected supplier finds a conflict of interest, the selected supplier must be excluded. I would like to thank you for your attention, and I would very much like to ask you to release this law to the Senate by plenary of the Chamber of Deputies due to the necessary deadline of 18 April 2016. I would also like to mention here that there has been one amendment to make the law effective seven days after the President's signature. I say very openly here that we have a neutral position on this proposal. However, I myself, as the Ministry of Regional Development, do not want to endanger contracting authorities at national level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u5	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. If the rapporteur wants to sign up with priority rights, of course he can. But otherwise, I'll give the floor to those who are properly logged in. That is, Mr Adamec will be the first to speak, and then Mr Bendl will be the first to speak. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, good Friday morning. I will be very brief, I will no longer comment on the bill, I did this in other readings. I would just like to ask the House to help me withdraw the amendment under number 3598. I consider it thoughtfully correct, but parametrically does not suit fellow mayors and asked me to do so. I would say that in words - I will come back with it someday, but at this point, I would ask you to help me withdraw this amendment from the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u7	Yes, so Mr Adamec asks the House to agree to withdraw his amendment, which he mentioned in his speech. We'll decide that by voting. I am opening the vote and ask who agrees to the withdrawal of Mr Adamec's amendment. Who's against it? The vote is number 98, registered 154, for 114, against no one. This proposal was accepted, so the proposal was withdrawn. Mr Bendl, I beg you, Mr Plíšek will be prepared after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u8	Good day, fellow Members, Mr President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. Let me make a brief statement on some issues affecting this material, which we have actually discussed honestly for a number of hours at the meeting of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, and the more than 130 amendments we have actually discussed from the left, from the right, from the top, from the bottom, so that we can say pluses and minuses. I have to say in general and actually repeat that we are under pressure that may not have been. Perhaps because it was unnecessary to discuss the amendment to the Public Procurement Act, which we approved sometime in the second half of last year, or so it was, and they discussed it here for a number of months. Thus, the Ministry had less time to prepare a completely new law. Users or future contracting entities did not have time to discuss all the nuances of this law as Members. The fact that the Ministry itself brought dozens of amendments to the bill confirms what I'm saying that we're under pressure of time for nothing and that we didn't really have to get into this situation. And it's a shame that we didn't have more time, because, after all, a debate on whether it's a more complex law or a simpler one, whether it's more modern, or if it's more worried, would definitely contribute if we had that space for at least a month, maybe two months longer. I think the law would deserve it because once it starts to pay - and I hope it doesn't start to pay seven days after we approve it, that would be a foul against the contracting authorities of public procurement, because this change that's coming is going to force them to start acting in accordance with this law after seven days that we approve this material, it will bring unnecessary chaos and worries. I would leave the original intention of the petitioner there, and I would not worry about future contracting entities by forcing them to act seven days after this law has been declared. The law is about a hundred paragraphs longer than the one we amended last year, from about 170 paragraphs we go to 270, and there are some approaches that I think were still worth discussing. One of them is a fee to the Autonomous Office, because I don't really think any of what's in there is very good, not the thousand crowns, not the ten thousand crowns. We should have been looking for a better way to prevent the abuse of the Institute from objecting to the UOHS, to avoid it or less, because it could never be completely prevented, but less was the competitive battle going to take place bureaucratically even in the territory of the UOHS, without really having any real and factual reasons. The Committee's efforts to increase the amount were led by this conviction, but the ÚOHS declared to us at the committee's meeting that it fears that the sum of CZK 10,000 for the fee is or may be called into question by the Constitutional Court as it goes above the minimum wage level and can therefore be called into question. Nevertheless, the Public Administration Committee has recommended this higher amount precisely to avoid abuse of this institute, but, as I say, neither is a good solution. We choose from two solutions that are not very good. We discussed a lot about competition for the prize, which is a big debate in the whole Czech Republic, such an effort to get the contract by pushing the price down, getting the contract and then going to the contracting authority and saying: more work is needed, etc. Here I have to say, for there is a myth that under the current law, amended and previously amended, the Public Procurement Act forced us or forced the contracting authority to compete at as low a price as possible. It's not true. According to the law already in force and before, it was possible to compete in multi-critical competitions - to give multi-critical competitions, but the problem is in subsidy providers, because the administrators of subsidy funds and various such institutions that provide subsidies to the public administration, and nowadays you can build almost nothing, so these fund managers put the contracting authority on the terms that they will receive the money only if they choose someone with the lowest price. So this problem will not be solved by the Public Procurement Act according to my deep conviction. It will only be solved by the fact that the person who provides the subsidy will respect the award of the public contract and the fact that he has won and fulfilled all the criteria, not just this one. I consider the competition for a price in a number of cases - it does not automatically apply everywhere - to be dangerous, to actually choose the cheapest one that a person would never buy at home in advance, but we should think about how to force the authorities that provide financial subsidies not to give this condition to the contracting authority, so that the contracting authority decides, in accordance with the law, what criteria it will apply. Otherwise, when I talk about criteria, we discussed whether or not to favour companies employing people with disabilities. I am deeply convinced that the law, as it is, is sufficient for the contracting authority, if any, to put such a criterion into the award of a public contract. It is dangerous to put into law that anyone who employs handicapped people or is part of some coalition of companies that ask for a contract has someone in the association who employs disabled people, that would automatically have a 15% discount when assessing them. [[9.30 hours]] I think it would happen in some way, I don't want to say the ugly word of business, but it would simply be traded with those firms and those people instead of focusing on helping those particular people with disabilities. I would rather have the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, together, the House and so on, deal with the situation of each individual person and assess whether it is necessary or not. But in order to favour companies that employ people with disabilities, I would consider it dangerous that there might be abuse of this institute, and I will certainly not vote in favour of that. More work. The more we open the scissors with more work, the more chance we have of pitching that price. Pro, I'll say, for speculators. When I talked about it with one person who has experience both on the side of those who write and write orders, design orders, so he applied for them, so he said when we talked about the 50 percent more work, his answer was: That's great, that's what you're saying, the price isn't important, it's much more important to have a good relationship with the contracting authority. Because the moment I can open the scissors a lot, then I can come up and say hey, it's in accordance with the law, we can fit up to 50 percent, the contract's worth 100 million, so 50 goes in there, what if we do that? You're not gonna get caught up in this. So I am saying openly here that we do not agree with this approach, that we are afraid of this significant abuse as a pro-corruption clause, and we will in no way vote for the 50 per cent, nor for the addition of the possibility of multi-work that appears suddenly, or changes to the project. The approach finally chosen by the Public Administration Committee that multi-work will add up and be limited to 30%, I could imagine a lower limit, the 20 percent I think might be enough. But what's wrong and it's brussels when more and less jobs are not deducted from each other, that if they're less jobs, they don't deduct, and they don't add more jobs. It's attributed to both. If you do less work, I'll say ten million jobs. But you're able to do it for nine, so the one million less jobs are attributed in terms of judging the contract, so it's not 90 per cent, but it's already 110 per cent, which I think is brussels stupid, but there's no way to deal with this brussels at least for the moment. Opening the ownership structure. That's schizophrenic again. If they apply for a contract or apply for a contract by a foreign company, they will not have the same conditions as Czech companies because of Czech companies, and I am convinced that this is the right thing to do, we have to want them to uncover the property structure. If anyone wants a contract, a grant from the state, and so on, we should know who's getting it. Not that it's anyone in the Panama Islands or anything. However, this law says that foreign companies do not have to do so completely, that they give a statement and so on. There's a fear in the sense that we don't have to do it, but we'll see that when we apply for the law, we'll suddenly increase the number of foreign companies that are going to apply for contracts because they won't have to open up the property structure. I just feel the need to say it here, because it's a Brussels foul again, which prescribes that we don't have to respect it, and I consider it a bad solution. So, that's - I could probably talk longer because there was a lot of it, but at least some of these fundamental things I wanted to say. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u9	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Plíšek, Mr Klán's factual comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u10	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, colleagues, Mr President. Allow me to respond a little to my previous speaker. He said something about ten grand again about the UOHS. I'm up for $10,000. From the logic of the matter, if there's a thousand, it's also contested by the Constitutional Court. Any amount that will be given there will be countervailable. So I am in favour of 10,000, as we have clearly agreed and voted to confirm on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Second thing. 30 per cent, 50 per cent more work. I've already said in my speech that I'm going to support 30 percent. I'd be in favour of it being even less. Because it's being abused quite a lot. Of course, the other things that have been mentioned here, I agree with them. We'll see what happens in the vote. Anyway, at the UOHS, I say for myself, it takes 10,000 to eliminate, eliminate the ambush of the úohs. This isn't about excluding the public or anyone from the impulses. So this is in a nutshell, I don't want to hold back the negotiation of this law, which is why I just had to respond to the 10,000 that I believe that if we somehow signed this amendment across here in the Chamber of Deputies, that it would pass. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u11	Thank you. Now, please, Mr Plíšek, Mr Leo Luzar will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u12	Mr President -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u13	Excuse me, Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry, but I'm asking a group on the left to move her debate into the foyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, allow me to address you with a request to support the amendments under C1, C2, C3. These are amendments concerning the participation of companies in which a member of the government has a share in public procurement. I proposed a provision on the Constitutional Legal Committee in the sense that public procurement should not take part in companies that are at least 10% owned by a member of the government. The Constitutional Committee of the votes of all opposition Members and also the votes of the two Coalition Members, namely Lukáš Pleticha of the ČSSD and Pavla Golasowská of the KDU-ČSL, supported this amendment and I want to thank them for that. However, it is of course important to vote here today at the final third reading. I must say that Austria has a similar provision which I have proposed in its law. The Minister here spoke very in general and very briefly about the fact that my proposal is allegedly contrary to European law. So I hope the Minister does not want to say that Austria, which has similar provisions in the rule of law on the exclusion of companies of government members from public procurement, violates European law. However, I had my legal analysis processed because the Minister was kind of fencing and waving through European law. First at the Constitutional Legal Committee, then at the second reading at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies and today. I would say that her argument is rather feeble and, above all, misleading. By the way, she said on the Constitutional Legal Committee that my proposal is not from the point of view, so did the media, but that it is against European law. In short, I will now try to refute her alleged doubts about the alleged contradiction with European law. [[9.40 hours]] In her argument, Minister Šlechtová referred to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in Case CS 213/07, which, however, completely distorted. It initially claimed that the EU States could not extend the list of reasons for excluding the tenderer from the procurement procedure. It subsequently admitted that this interpretation was incorrect and argued that it was a breach of the principle of proportionality, i.e. proportionality. Both arguments are not based on the truth and are not even mentioned in the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union cited. On the contrary, it follows from that decision that Member States may provide for further measures aimed at excluding tenderers to ensure compliance with the principle of equal treatment of tenderers and the principles of transparency, unless such measures go beyond what is necessary to achieve this objective. The Court also stated directly that in the light of its historical, legal, economic or social aspects, each Member State can best identify situations in which there may be an infringement of these principles, i.e. a potential conflict of interest. Thus, European Community law does not prevent the adoption of national measures in order to exclude in public procurement tenders the risk of practices threatening transparency and distorting competition. The proposed amendment is precisely aimed at eliminating the risk of a threat of transparency when, in the case of a company in which a member of the government has a share in voting rights, contracting authorities are actually at risk of taking this into account. These companies may also have non-public information, which is available to a member of the government, who can fundamentally benefit them in the tender procedure. Therefore, the proposed amendment does not violate the principle of proportionality either. The Minister also referred to the committee, and then to the plenary, to the Greek case. In the Greek case under consideration, the Court of Justice's examination was open to the exclusion of entities connected with the media by property or personnel. This exclusion was very broad. Here I will add that the Greek constitution, which I suspect has not yet been amended, contains provisions that media owners must not apply for public contracts. However, my proposal, which I proposed and approved by the Constitutional Committee, is much narrower and has nothing to do with the Greek case. On the other hand, the proposed amendment, or the proposed exclusion of tenderers from procurement procedures, concerns only a small number of entities dealing with the participation in the voting rights of a member of the Government. This narrow definition has also been chosen with a view to maintaining the adequacy of the measure, since there is indeed a difference between, for example, a member of the government who decides to spend billions of funds from the state budget, and, for example, Members and Senators who do not decide this and are also, of course, otherwise elected, whereas a member of the government is appointed to his office, and a law on conflicts of interest and other laws lay down certain conditions for the performance of his duties. So it is true that a perfectly reasonable and fair requirement that companies of high public officials, i.e. members of the government, do not participate in procurement procedures. In conclusion, it is also appropriate to state that the new award directive No 2014/24/EU directly allows Member States to exclude certain entities from the procurement procedures, unless other less restrictive measures are possible to resolve conflicts of interest. So I see the provision as a complement to what the directive already contains, i.e. refinement. So let me sum up the legal analysis. I don't want to read it all, of course. The Court of Justice of the European Union has expressly provided that Member States may extend the grounds for excluding tenderers from the procurement procedure. Furthermore, each Member State is entitled, on the basis of its justified and realistic needs, to take the necessary measures to maintain transparency. Directive 2014/24/EU allows tenderers to be excluded from the procurement procedure to resolve conflicts of interest. The proposed measure complies with the principle of proportionality. I would therefore like to address my dear colleagues and my dear colleagues when we vote on this amendment, so that we do not resolve or refer in some way to a fairy tale about the alleged contradiction with European law. Today, we will be voting on dozens of amendments to this law. If we approve it, the notification will have to be carried out, and none of us here in this hall, or the secretary herself, can claim authority on these proposals whether they are or are not in compliance with European law. This will be the subject of notification procedures or other legal steps. This means, let us not let this fairy tale of alleged contradiction with European law confuse us. I am also addressing colleagues from social democracy who, therefore, have decided in some way today, even though many of them wanted to support this proposal. and, as I mentioned, Austria has this proposal in its legal order. So I'm asking for his support. And to colleagues who may change their position against the vote on the committee, I add that I am sorry. I won't forgive a certain political remark. This week, on certain billboards, we saw some passwords about the state not being a company. We have seen some declarations on the presentation of legislation in the area of conflict of interest in the media. Unfortunately, it's just talk. Unfortunately, the deed is different. Thank you for your attention and please support my proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u15	Yes. Now I have two factual points. First President Schwarzenberg and then President Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u16	Mr President, honourable Members, the previous speaker here has discussed the legal situation that every European State has the right to address this problem and to set strict rules. Yes, everyone has a right. But not everyone has the will to deal with it and really make order in it. That is the difference between European states. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u17	Thank you. Mr Kalousek, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me only a brief argument with a number of media and a number of rare colleagues from the ANO 2011 series who say, in short, that what Mr Plíšek defends is Lex Babiš, that it is directed against Babiš. If we come out of the words of the Prime Minister YES, it simply cannot be. I will take his exact quote for the iHNED daily: "Our strength and independence are in this," says President Babiš, "we do not do public procurement." Then there's only two options. Either the Chairman of YES 2011 is lying and it is precisely the opposite, your strength is above all that you are doing public contracts or he is telling the truth, but then it can't be lex Babiš, because if he doesn't do public contracts, it can't concern him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u19	Now, therefore, Mr Luzar's proper application. Mr Farský will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u20	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will try not to use third reading to defend my amendments. I would just like to refer, in general, to the role of this law. This law is one of the most important laws for municipal policy. I think we all agree. The vast majority of us came from the local politics. The vast majority of us have worked in this municipal policy so far. According to the preparation of this law, I have come to the impression that many mayors or executives of these municipalities want as simple a law as possible. They point to the shortcomings of the existing law, especially the lack of which I would name the competition for the prize. I want to point out that the existing law is not a price competition law. It is only interpreted that way, because the price should be one of the decisive criteria, but it is not implied that there must be a competition for the price. That, as mayors or as local politicians, we couldn't enforce it so that it wouldn't have to compete for the prize, and they put out the competitions so that even without this criterion, it was the error of municipal policy, the error of methodological leadership. Maybe. [[9.50 hours]] In any case, this law, which is presented to us, is very, very bad in my opinion, because it returns us ten, fifteen years ago in this law on public procurement, until the municipalities served as a flow heater of funds between budgets and private entrepreneurs without significant control. I take it from this to the pressures to raise the limit of more work, because here we directly relieve the responsibility of projects and design offices for the processing of projects, and these are most reflected in the output and value of the contract. As well as the quality of the project is worked out, the resulting price is different from the project price. However, the amount of comments that came to this law embarrassed me within the framework of this law's system of deliberation. It is very difficult to discuss such a huge number of comments at the rate at which he was elected. I am not looking hard at the Minister here, I am not even blaming the person who, poor man, had to write it all down afterwards, but rather heading to prepare this law here, to prepare the legislative process in Parliament, because, in my opinion in committee, the possibility of an adequate response to comments has been tricked, an adequate response to the arguments of the opponent. Because, as an MP, try to argue against the top lawyers of the UOHS if you don't turn the other top lawyers of the UOHS against them, sorry, top lawyers of practice, so that these lawyers can explain among themselves, and we as impartial observers of the Members can assess which argument is correct and which argument is odd. This did not happen for time reasons. That is why I am very sorry, and from this point of view, I consider this law to be limping in these particular matters, because it is obvious that if you prepare an amendment that would address, in a positive or negative sense, the work force of an office, and you ask that office how it looks at this proposal, I do not expect any positive cry and ovation, but rather a bunch of subjective and objective reasons why it does not approve and why to reject it, because it could, of course, add work to it. And this is where this part, unfortunately, occurred. Finally, I think a little lightened that this law will make the most of the bakers who bake Christmas and file makers, because a Christmas card with a fried file will be a very important article on this market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u21	Thank you, too. Please Mr Farský and Mr Hovorka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief in my speech and I will try to draw direct attention to the various amendments which, from my point of view, could destruct the original intention of the petitioner and also bring us more negative than useful. To begin with, I would just mention that really, as has already been said here, and I am very glad that after three- to four-year attacks on the previous law on public procurement and a transparent amendment, which has been extended by the myth of having to compete for the law only at the price, it finally begins to repeat that it is not and that it was not the law, but it was the interpretation and conditions of the subsidy programmes. Nevertheless, even in the preparation of this law and in the argument for why it is necessary to adopt it, this argument was mentioned and also reflected in the fact that more possible qualification criteria, qualification adjustments were directly defined, but basically it was only from my point of view that the existing possibility in the law was divorced. Another thing that is mentioned in the law and which, from my perspective, is nice, but I doubt its functionality with reference to how the competitions were handled at the price is so called. Blacklist. Somehow I cannot imagine that municipalities, but also other contracting entities, who did not have the courage and the strength to compete not only on the price, but also to involve other qualification criteria, will now have the courage to eliminate individual public procurement candidates, stating that they had not succeeded in the past, have done poor work. As long as there's no final judgment to define precisely the error, I don't think anybody's gonna be able to rule out any such company. Just to illustrate, this option was already in the Public Procurement Act, this power to exclude companies was at the Ministry of Regional Development and overall was ruled out over the years around ten, if I remember correctly. What is also in the law, and unfortunately from my point of view, does not bring more transparency, although I think it is appropriate to use current technologies, and Minister Jourová, who originally spoke about this law, and who was initially in preparation for it, although she was delayed by the preparation of this, I would say, almost unnecessary amendment, is increasing further limits. And the fact that it was mentioned at the time that the simplification of the law and the reduction of administrative requirements would allow the register of contracts, now the question is whether, although the register of contracts is approved, it is reopened, and I think there is a great risk that, after discussion in committees and plenary, it will remain a torso, if this crutch is still applicable to the Public Procurement Act. What I personally don't like very much is raising the limit for simplified climate management from ten to fifty million. Although the submitters say that it doesn't really mean much, but we have also heard that when the obligation to cancel a contract in the case of one supplier was lifted, and within one year we took the fifth worst position in Europe by competing up to one third of the public contracts in the Czech Republic, when one candidate in the tender won it. And of course it raises doubts. And here I will also follow up on the previous performance of my colleague Plíšek. After all, it is an event about 14 days old, which took place almost unnoticed by the media when Olma won the tender from the State Administration of Material Reserves for the storage of dried milk for CZK 31 million. It's a firm wholly owned by the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance. Olma was the only candidate in the competition and the second possible candidate, Madeta, so her owner Mr. Teplý commented that the conditions were set so that he could not meet them. Can you imagine that five years ago, and now I will be personal to the President, that the company of President Kalousek would have participated in the tender, at that time the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance, was the only candidate and sole participant in this tender and would have won the contract of CZK 31 million? I ask, how long would Minister Kalousek remain Minister of the Government and Vice-President of the Government? How long would it take before he had to quit because he would have been accused that his company, the vice-president's company and the finance minister, had won the 31 million contract as the only candidate in the competition, which was also tailor-made. This is how things changed. That is why I would strongly support Mr Plíšek's proposal, because we have come into this situation. And it's not a good situation because, of course, it raises a number of doubts, a number of conjectures, and a conflict of interest has never been as big as it is at the moment. [[10.00 hours]] I apologise through Mr Kalousek, Mr Kalousek, for taking him in my mouth here, but I tried to show on this example the insanity of the current state, which does not excite us, because, as I have read in recent headlines, social democracy has withdrawn its originally announced support for Mr Plíšek's proposal. Now I'll be specific. Some 350 amendments have been tabled. From my point of view, many of them are technical. Many have also created the Ministry of Regional Development to improve the law in some way. I will not say that 350 amendments means that it was probably prepared initially poor quality, as I heard here especially during the discussion of the register of contracts. It is simply a subject on which we have many different opinions. Which one would I mention? Under No. 14 is proposed by the amendment under A143 - it is the tens of thousands fee for entry into the ÚOHS. From my point of view, it's unsystemic, it's wrong. We're not supposed to put it into the law. We're not supposed to put people in a position to claim their rights. It would be okay if it were returned in the event of success, it would be wrong if it always fails. There will be another one of our proposals that we will also charge criminal charges. It's a similar situation. I hope that these proposals will not receive aid. Then it's under here. 13 votes point A98, which increases the obligation of the concession from 20 to 100 million. I'll agree with the secretary here, too. It would be exactly where public contracts will move, and they will cease to compete because they will become concessions. This may significantly lead to the promotion of PPP projects, but I do not think that this is our interest or the interest of legislation. The next thing I want to point out is the vote of 18 and 19, Amendments R111 and R112, which is an increase in possible multi-work from 30 to 50 percent. Indeed, and now I will speak with the practice of the mayor and the contracting authority, through whose budget has gone through half a billion. If the documentation is well prepared, if it is good construction supervision, you can fit up to 30 percent without any problems. And we did reconstructions of old buildings, we did new constructions. We've always been able to fit in. Because the trouble has more planes. Today, projects are often prepared basically only to succeed in the grant application. And the moment you're preparing a project that you're investing a lot of money in and a lot of work in, and you're not sure you're going to realize it at all, because it depends on whether you finally get the grant, it's natural that the project doesn't match the quality of the one you know you're definitely going to implement. So the quality of the projects is low in the Czech Republic. And that's why there's often a lot of more work to be done. But we do not have to deal with the consequences by opening up the growth potential from 30 to 50 per cent, but we should be much more concerned with creating and competitive quality projects. Then we really relativize any competition at all when we can move up to 50 percent with the price in the result. Then it's under here. 24 Amendment under letters C1, C2 and C3. This is a proposal to limit the participation of companies owned by members of the government. Then I would like to draw attention to the vote under No. 46 letters O6, which are hidden, but it's important. Disrupts proof of transparent ownership. I think we should not retreat in this, and we should not support this letter O6. The next vote, which I think we must not afford to support, is under No. 61 letter R73. It's shortening the legisvacance to seven of hers. For such a complex law, which awaits a number of implementing regulations, methodologies, training, it is not possible for us to give contracting entities one seven days, but not only contracting entities, but also the Ministry of Regional Development to implement the law. When I counted it through the thumb, the effectiveness as proposed by the law is based on August 1, 2016, because it is three months after it comes out in the Collection, but we will see it can also be September 1. But it practically means that most public procurements this year will not be affected by the law. That's reality. We've moved on to prepare an unnecessary novel that's been going on here. What I certainly want to justify now, but I will propose this in the procedure, in the package of amendments from the Public Administration Committee, and in the voting procedure, the proposal under letter A14 appeared, when § 37 para. 1 states, according to a new proposal supported by the Committee, that the conditions for participation in the procurement procedure may be laid down by the contracting authority as - and is now talking about qualifications, technical conditions, business conditions. In the proposal passed by the Public Administration Committee, it appeared that the conditions it laid down had to be linked to the subject matter of the contract. I think it's necessary because this was exactly the situation, and now you might find this absurd example, but if we change it like this, the law will make it possible for us to put the National Museum under the conditions that we require the company that participates to have two tugs. This is exactly what led and was used in the past to set the qualification criteria in a way that eliminates most applicants and in advance will know exactly who the only couple will be able to participate in the contract, and in the end it was not at all difficult that they agreed with each other or that there was only one candidate left at all. So against this point A14, which is hidden in the package of amendments recommended by the Public Administration Committee, I would warn you this way and I will certainly propose that it be exempted. Thank you for your attention. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u23	Thank you, too. With a factual remark, Mr Svoboda and then with priority rights, Minister Dienstbier.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My factual point really concerns what my previous speaker said. If we were responsible for the Blanka tunnel, which is certainly very controversial for economic reasons, then at the end of our parliamentary term, we had to find out what we were doing with more work on Blanca. And the whole analysis showed that we fit into 20 percent with more work. And I would like to point out that this is a tunnel construction that has this 20 percent exception, where there were two drops, and yet it went into 20 percent. I very much warn against raising this limit simply because it opens up room for multi-work that will arise on the basis of poor building supervision. That's a very important thing. And I'm saying again that a 36 billion building could fit into 20 percent more work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u25	Minister Dienstbier has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to comment on the TOP 09 proposal, which wants to prevent companies with a share of government from applying for public contracts. For he the problem of this proposal is that he does not work or would not work if he had been approved. Respectively, he works marketing from the TOP 09 point of view, which is pretending to struggle terribly with the conflict of interests of Andrej Babiš, but in fact he does not fight this proposal in any way. Andrej Babiš has already practically laughed at this proposal and others that he will transfer shares in his company or companies to his partner Monika and that it will be resolved and that at that moment, companies could, of course, apply for public contracts. The idea that the current company of Andrej Babiš will be owned by his partner Monika and will be managed by Jaroslav Faltýnek from Agrofert, who is also the first Vice-President of the ANO movement, chairman of the parliamentary club and chairman of the agricultural committee, and that suddenly the conflict of interest will fall away, I think that even the TOP 09 cannot be serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u27	Mrs Langšádlová would like a factual comment? [[Yes.]] Then Mr Stanjura, then Mr Plíšek and then Mr Gabal. Please, just two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u28	Minister Dienstbier, Prime Minister, perhaps the TOP 09 proposal is not perfect. But then I ask why you as members of social democracy, why you, as members of KDU-ČSL, have not submitted another, more effective proposal in all this time. Or is that really okay with you?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u29	Mr. President Stanjura, after him, Mr. Mr. Plíšek. And then Mr. Gabal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u30	So, according to the Rules of Procedure, I respond to the speech of the previous speaker, Minister Dienstbier. So I understood his speech as follows: Minister Dienstbier admitted that there is a huge conflict of interest here, not only thanks to the Minister of Finance, but also because the board member is the first Vice-President of the ANO movement, the chairman of the parliamentary club. But at the same time, he says, well, that's right, and whatever we try to do with it, they'll go around anyway. So, as Prime Minister and Members of the Chamber of Deputies, it doesn't really bother me, because we don't know what to do with it. And what if someone from that government got away from us, what would happen to my ministerial post?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u31	Mr. Plíšek, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u32	So my colleagues have already said it here, but that Minister Dienstbier, Minister for Social Democracy, is actually here to defend the YES movement, surprises me completely. But okay, he's a coalition partner. I just remember that at his party's convention, which is the highest body of every political party, a resolution was adopted that social democracy would do everything against the concentration of political, economic and media power, that it wanted to tighten public procurement, rules for the participation of government members and also conflicts of interest. I ask: what are the proposals of your political party, Minister, in this regard? I haven't seen any concrete proposals here until today. I was giving my proposal for a discussion, and I expected a proposal from you, too. There wasn't any. In the meantime, you started saying you'd support the proposal, then you changed your mind for some reason. And the fact that there's a rule to go around... Well, Minister, there's a way around every rule that goes around here. But does that mean we're not implementing the rules? That we're not going to solve the problem at all? Are you directing me to restrict the ownership rights of the Minister's partner? I didn't understand where your reminder was headed, what the proposal should look like to support him. I think it's just hypocrisy, how do you want to get rid of voting for this proposal because... And I am glad that, unlike the Minister, you have not made any arguments about European law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u33	Mr Gabal, then Minister Dienstbier, then President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u34	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, by your means, Jiří Dienstbier. Of course, I didn't have Agrofert. But for just purely ethical reasons, I fired people after the end of the contract, and I quit my business. If the ethical dimension is not present on the side of who it concerns, then there must be a law. I apologize as head of the legislative board.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u35	Good morning, dear colleagues. Now with a point of fact, Minister Dienstbier. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u36	Mr Vice-President, Madame Members, I have not questioned the seriousness of the conflict of interest here. I think we have to deal with a conflict of interest, but not with a form that doesn't actually solve anything. And I think the debate will be in order when we're discussing a conflict of interest. The proposals that have been put forward in the committees, I have identified them as legitimate, and that there is a need for debate on them. But we need to talk about a solution that really contributes to conflict of interest. Even Andrej Babiš doesn't deny a conflict of interest. He says he wakes up every day, so it's not even the subject of a dispute. The question is, how do we adjust the terms and conditions of both reporting conflicts of interest, whether it is strictly observed, and how far should we go in order to prevent someone from, for example, owning a business company or controlling the media? I think we will get to this debate, but the right place is not the law on public procurement. And now I really don't want to talk about whether or not it is in accordance with European law. It's a serious problem, we have to deal with it, but I don't think we're dealing with it right now in the right place and in the right way. Conflict of interest, media laws will be where we're supposed to talk about this sort of adjustment. And in fact, by saying that someone can't have a share in a business corporation, we can't solve that, because the transfer to a trust fund, the transfer to a third person acting as a missionary, the transfer to a partner, whatever goes around instantly, and the conflict of interest doesn't shrink. So not here. In other legislation, this debate can undoubtedly be conducted rather than in this place. And I've been expressing that the particular proposal that's being made here isn't really going to solve anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u37	Thank you, Minister Dienstbier. Another, with a factual remark, by President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u38	Thank you. Minister Dienstbier has not failed. He said there's been a problem here for two and a half years, he didn't do anything about it, just like his prime minister did, but now that there's a suggestion, it's not possible, it's got to be better, complex, systemically. I've been hearing this for 20 years when someone doesn't want to do anything. I don't want to go into legal loopholes to what extent this transfer to a partner would be legal and consistent at all. I don't think so, because we have a unique husband's fortune in Europe. So even though Minister Jurečka says that he has transferred his farm to his wife, there is a conflict of interest in this because, of course, the income from that farm is the common income of Jurečková's Jurečkův. I don't think we can do it with the transfer. But I don't want to get into that. I just want to say that any instrument can, of course, be bypassed. But then there's the conflict again that a public person is going around the law, and the question is whether he's going to keep it or not, the public and its coalition partners are going to like it. And I'm not happy at all, Minister, that I won the bet today. 'Cause on Monday, I bet on how it was gonna go down. That social democracy is going to be in the breasts for a few days saying it's going to do it, this time it's going to kill the conflict of interest, and it's going to fuck up again. Which is what happened. And now you're going to focus on the conflict of interest, and you're going to heroically say how you're going to solve this systemically and comprehensively in this conflict of interest that you're going to defend here. Well, how's that gonna work out? You're gonna shit yourself again like you've screwed up ten times in the past. I don't blame you, it's politics. But stop hypocritically telling us about systemic and complex solutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u39	Thank you to President Kalousek. Mr Marek Benda has a replacement card number 16. And then I have four further factual points: first Mrs Věra Kovářová, then Mrs Langšádlová, then Mr Heger and President Sklenák. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u40	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to respond to the words of Minister Dienstbier, which I would like to refer to as whining. Whenever a government coalition adopts a bad law that affects ordinary people or municipalities or anybody in this republic, the opposition responds by criticizing the proposals wrong and submitting a correction to faulty provisions or amendments. And all of a sudden, the ministers of the government coalition or MEPs are calling out that opposition proposals are populist or that the opposition wants to become visible. If, Minister, you have such a feeling and it bothers you, there is only one way: pass the laws good, just for everyone!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. With another factual remark by Mrs Langšádlová, Mr Heger, Mr Sklenák, Mr Schwarzenberg, Mr Chvojka and Mr Foldyna. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u42	Here are often the words: This lasts two and a half years, YES won the election, everyone knew that Andrej Babiš was the owner of Agrofert. Yes, that's right. That is true, but I am not at all sure that you, as coalition partners, knew that the voters of the YES knew that Andrej Babiš, with such vehementness, would promote his economic interests thanks to his position. We all remember how there was a discussion here, for example, about the laws on biofuels, we all watched his companies win competitions, whether it is in the Forests of the Czech Republic, whether they are state reserves, whether it be questions of his entry into the health sector. Nobody knew that! And I have to say, we're all very concerned about this. And you and especially you, the coalition partners, YES, should be concerned. Such a situation has not been here, and such a changed situation needs to be addressed. Or are you really okay with that?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u43	Thank you, Mrs Langšádlová. With another factual remark, Mr Leoš Heger, Mr Sklenák, followed by Mr Schwarzenberg. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam, honourable Members, Prime Minister, this is my first performance to perform ad personam, and Minister Dienstbier has done so. Dear Minister Dienstbier, you have attacked our colleague Plíšek here. I am very curious when this micro-debate is over if you will also attack my colleague Farský for an example with Olma and the selection procedure and what you will come up with. The way you assaulted colleague Plíšek when you said it was his marketing or TOP 09 marketing methods as he performs here. I must say that since you yourself have acknowledged that there is a conflict of interest here, I would expect a decent government minister to say that in such a serious matter as conflict of interest, he will say: well, the law or amendment has technical shortcomings, let us discuss it in the next round or in other laws. But not that you're going to degenerate him like that. I think that is an expression of the lowest instincts, where the conflict of interest between the country's interest and the role of a Member and the interest is political. Don't be mad at me, but I had to make this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u45	I thank Mr Heger. With another factual remark, President Sklenák. Please, Mr. Chairman. After him, President Schwarzenberg.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u46	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, I must respond to the words of President Kalousek and some others on the alleged change in the position of Members of Social Democracy. I was here a few days ago with precise quotes that President Kalousek, in particular, was telling the truth about this place, and if I had enough time, I could prove it in this case. Social Democrats and, for example, myself, at a press conference on Tuesday after the meeting of our club, on a direct question, if we support Mr Plíšek's amendment in this law, I replied, and it is on the record that the club will discuss it, but if they want to know my personal position, I will not vote in favour of it, and I will recommend this position to the members of our club. Other Social Democrats have spoken similarly. And now you're saying that we've changed some attitude and that we've been beating each other in the breasts. It's just not true. Indeed, President Kalousek, through the President, do not continue your good practice when you are not telling the truth here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u47	Thank you, President Sklenák. Now, President Schwarzenberg. Please, Mr. Chairman. After that, Mr Chvojka and Mr Foldyna.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u48	Mr President, honourable Members, Mr Miroslav Kalousek misled this House when he argued that the Minister of Finance was facing a conflict of interest between the Ministry of Finance and the Agrofert Group. It's not true. It was a long time ago. The Minister of Finance has managed to perfectly reconcile the interests of the Ministry with those of Agrofert. There is no conflict here, but the Republic is slowly operating as the political division of the Agrofert Group. That's one. Secondly, I found out that I'm an old man now. I still remember from my youth when social democracy was interested in limiting the political influence of billionaires. But that was when I was a kid. It's not today anymore. But I'm just reminding you, there were times like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u49	Thank you to President Schwarzenberg. With another factual remark, Mr Chvojka, Mr Foldyna, followed by Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I, too, would like to give some admiration to my colleagues, whom I love and who I get along well with. My colleague Farský has been living off the register of contracts for two years, colleague Plíšek, his competent follower, who has lived on these two amendments for about three months, although I admit the proposal is good, but he is not legislatively good. We said so, and if someone didn't see it on TV or at our press conference, for example, the Prime Minister said so last Friday at Law. We simply will not support the amendment relating to public procurement because we are concerned that it is not in accordance with European rules. I understand, of course, that Mr Plíšek, who advocates and supports the proposal, says something else that it does not conflict with European rules. We say he probably is, and now the question is, who's gonna decide? I don't think it's gonna be my colleague Plíšek, because of course he's in conflict of interest when he proposes the law. So we have clearly said: this amendment, which concerns public procurement, no, because we are afraid that it is not in accordance with European rules and the Czech Republic could become problems with Brussels. With regard to the amendment to the conflict of interest law, the amendment, we have made it clear that we will support this in a factual way, but we have a problem only with the effect that we believe that we cannot limit the rules for the functioning of ministers at a time when this person is already a minister because, of course, the rules cannot be changed during the game. I think that's unconstitutional, and it wouldn't be in accordance with constitutional order. So we're prepared to limit the conflict of interest in some way, and we don't really care if it concerns anyone or anyone else, but it also has to be well prepared legislatively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u51	I thank Mr Chvojka. Another point of fact - Mr Foldyna, Mr Kalousek after him, Mr Mihola after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u52	Thank you, Mr President. I dare to argue whether social democracy has gone wrong. Social democracy didn't go wrong. That's in the direction of what Mr Kalousek here said. Social democracy has been on the political scene for 140 years, and the episode that is here, which is called the TOP 09, which has ruled here in the last parliamentary term with the Public Affairs, with the Agency's political party, from their figurine, has made Radek John into the Homeland Secretary and put the security of this country in jeopardy, because everyone knows that there are various things involved, so I beg you to tell us that we screwed up. We didn't screw up. You have prepared a bad amendment, which has a number of legislative mistakes, and we have no reason to approve it, even if we feel remotely about it, that it is flattering just to create a country where everything works at the moment, grows in contrast to you economy, everything is going well and you are creating tension and stuff! That's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u53	Thank you, Mr Foldyn. Mr Kalousek, President Mihola, followed by Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u54	I am largely prepared to accept Mr Foldyna's reservation. Even formulate an apology in the sense that I really misinterpreted it, that social democracy could not go wrong. Its individual Members have been screwed up, too, I think, much more accurate. But no matter what happened or didn't happen. Ladies and gentlemen, we answer a very simple question. Do we consider it right that the person managing public finances should also apply for finance in his own private interest? We think it's right, don't we? We never needed the law to do this, because public opinion and the leaders of all previous governments just didn't think it was right, and nothing like that was ever allowed here. We're in a situation of two and a half years when, contrary to his declarations, he doesn't do public contracts... We are in a situation where an important member of the government, some even say that the most important, manages public finances and, at the same time, is running for public finances in his own interest. In this situation, we are, and every rule is not only a rule that we have to follow, but a signal that the House sends to society and says: this is what we think is right and we do not see this as right. Mr Plíšek has done nothing but ask you to support the House of Deputies' report to the public that the Chamber of Deputies does not consider it right for those who manage public budgets to apply for them in their own private interest. You say, "No, it's flawed." We don't want to send a signal like that, we think it's right for two and a half years, and we think it's right for us to continue because we won't support anything like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u55	Thank you to President Kalousek. With a point of fact, President Mihola, after whom the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman is stahovat Mihola. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor. [[A misunderstanding with the performance.]] Even so, Prime Minister... President Mihola with priority rights in such a case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u56	Hello, fellow Members, Mr President, honourable Members of the Government. Let me comment on the proposal submitted by the KDU-ČSL and, in particular, on Mr Plíšek's amendment. This amendment has two levels. Legal, but also political. As far as the legal plane is concerned, we have had legal analyses carried out and they have not confirmed the applicant's concerns that this proposal is contrary to European legislation. Otherwise, we wouldn't even dare go against it ostensibly, really not. As I said, however, the plane is political for us. As you know, citizens are very sensitive to any suspicion that government officials might have any financial or economic benefits from their duties. Of course, this suspicion always occurs when a member of the government owns a company. For the first time, this problem was created with Aleš Hřebíček. Second time at Vít Bárta. He sold the first company, transferred the second to his brother. Yet they had to face the suspicion that their former firms were enjoying public competitions all the time. I think it is an obligation for the legislator to prevent problems. Such a prevention is if firms in which a member of the government has a stake are not able to apply for a public contract at all. And that is not because ministers are a prior suspect of dishonest conduct, but simply because they have information that others do not have in their capacity as ministers, thereby violating free competition. I would compare it to a situation where members of the statutory bodies of companies are prohibited from trading in shares. It's called. Insider trading. Or I would compare it with a ban on anonymous actions that allow for hidden ownership and thus misuse of information again. I don't take the accusations that there's any way around the law seriously. Because if we were to suspect members of the government of the Czech Republic to circumvent the law, we might as well cancel the election. I don't mean one particular minister, I mean every minister. For me, this law, or for our entire club, to speak for the club, is no Lex Babiš for the club. It's the same law for me as for example. a register of contracts which makes public contracts more transparent and which the coalition, including YES, has enforced. Finally, I would like to make it clear that KDU-ČSL Members will support Mr Plíšek's amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u57	I thank Prime Minister Mihol. Another one with priority rights, Mr. Prime Minister. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u58	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to mention that we are negotiating a law on public procurement. I do not know if this is some secret agreement between Minister Šlechtová and Mr Plíšek, but it would undoubtedly be a genius tactic, because, in general, when a law as complex as this is being discussed with thousands of comments, then, of course, in the debate in Parliament, the essential elements of the bill are being discussed and it is debating whether it is a good thing or a bad thing that the government is proposing. But Mr Plíšek's proposal has played the ideal role of a white dog here, so all the debate is now being held before the vote only on Mr Plíšek's proposal. I just want to remind you, and that is also one of the things that is important: this is the new law on public procurement. We've been working on it for two years. We've been waiting for him for two years, and it needs to be done. One of many things that just didn't get the time in the past, it just didn't make it. Like the EIA, as there were dozens of other issues, there's also the Procurement Act. Let's do it, approve it today, despite the debate that's going on here. I am in favour of having a new law on public procurement today. First remark. Second point. You know, I think that the problem, and I felt it in the media debate over the past few weeks, was created by Mr Plíšek making two amendments. He made two amendments to two different bills. We sitting here in the Chamber of Deputies know that. But unfortunately, citizens don't know. And very often the reporters connected it all together. Mr Plíšek has tabled an amendment to the Procurement Act and Mr Plíšek has tabled an amendment to the Act on Conflict of Interest. I can clearly say, and now I say this for the whole social democracy, we have always carefully distinguished these two proposals. We have distinguished Mr Plíšek's proposal for the Procurement Act, and there we have clearly said that we want to know the position of the Minister for Regional Development and we want to know that the proposal is legally indisputable. In addition, we have distinguished Mr Plíšek's proposal to the conflict of interest law, where we have announced in advance that we want to support this proposal as Social Democrats. And I'm hoping in a month, when the law talks, we'll get a chance to do that. We believe that and again say, Czech social democracy, that the law on conflict of interest and conflict of interest is related. And if we want to solve problems and new conflicts of interest problems, please let us resolve this in the conflict of interest law. Let's do this consistently and deal with it legally correctly. Let's not just worry about it. Accepting something will only be a false political gesture. Then it won't work anyway, and in the finals, the European Commission will propose that we cancel anyway. And in a year's time, we will meet here, and we will disgracefully amend the law just to bring it into line with European law. This is the path I refuse to take. I want every amendment on the table when we get to the second reading of the conflict of interest law. Let's make a deal and get this thing adjusted. [[10.40 hours]] Social democracy is ready to vote for a change in the conflict of interest law so that the conflict of interest law tightens up and tightens up the conditions relating to the possible business of members of the government. So the attitude here is clear. We've been saying it for weeks, we've been saying it over and over again, and we're going to keep saying it. And when he gets to the vote here in the Chamber of Deputies, the Social Democrats will raise their hand to tighten up the conflict of interest. But we want to do it qualified. We want to do it in the conflict of interest law. We will not do this in the Public Procurement Act because it is legally questionable. And we're not going to do that in the Public Procurement Act because it would jeopardize the adoption of a law that our economy simply needs. It's just that sometimes it's necessary to make changes to the law, because otherwise it's slowing down the economy. And you saw for yourself, and today we all saw it when the right economic policy is being made, so even the Czech economy can grow. It didn't look like it in years ago. It seemed like we were the worst in Central Europe. Last year, the Czech economy has grown fastest in the last eight years, and this is also due to the change in economic policy by our government. And we had to change some laws too. We're gonna keep doing this. I'm up for it, let's pass the Public Procurement Act today. And conflict of interest - it is a problem, it is a serious problem, and I thank Mr Plíšek for opening the subject. But let's solve it where it's appropriate, in the law of conflict of interest. You can count on the promotion of social democracy. We have always voted in the past to tighten the conditions in the area of conflict of interest, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u59	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u60	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, I have a personal request. Read the footage after yourself when it's on the wall to read what you've clearly told us. You said: We Social Democrats have always been opposed to a conflict of interest and its tightening up, and therefore, in two and a half years, we have done nothing at all. [[Mr. Faltynek responds from the bench.]] I'll translate Chairman Faltýnek into a microphone because he couldn't be heard. President Faltýnek cried out: And what did you do? I'd like to answer that, too. For us, it was simply not possible for the person managing public budgets to apply for the public money in his own behalf, in favour of his own company. It just wasn't... [[Mr. Faltynek responds from the scene again.]] It just wasn't possible. President Faltýnek - and it's the last time I do this, and for promising it's the last time... What are you yelling at me on the bench for, Mr. Chairman? This is simply not done in the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u61	Yes, I'm very sorry. I ask the Members not to shout at each other and to keep their voice down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u62	So President Faltýnek asked if even President Schwarzenberg. I said, certainly, not even President Schwarzenberg. President Schwarzenberg never managed the public budgets he applied for and never gave himself freelance contracts. This is really something that none of us and even most of the public could imagine a few years ago that something like this would be possible, and that is why none of us considered that it could be regulated by law. Because the law is a minimum of decency. That's just not what you do in decent company. Whoever would do that just has to leave this public life right now. And there's no need for a law. But times have changed and perceptions have changed, just now it's done. And they even say that a lot of people don't mind. So since the law is the minimum of decency, that's what the law is for. And it's not true that the public went to the polls and knew it. The public went to the polls and didn't know it, which is why I've quoted you here, and I quote it again, even though I don't have the quote in front of me, I know it by heart, your President's quote in the election campaign - now I'm turning to my colleagues for YES: "Our independence and strength is that we don't do public contracts." This can be demonstrated from an open source. I repeat, there are only two options. Either this can't be any Lex Babiš, because your chairman said he didn't do any public contracts, so it doesn't concern him, because your chairman doesn't lie. Or maybe your chairman is lying, like when he prints, it's exactly the opposite, your strength and addiction is that you're doing public procurement. Well, then it's something you don't do in a decent society, and it needs to be regulated by law. And you, Prime Minister, said: So we have done nothing for two and a half years. Now there is something that we Social Democrats have said only when it is legally indisputable and when the petitioner does not say that it is contrary to European law. Then you agreed with the Minister that it must be contrary to European law, and the wolf will eat and the goat will remain whole. Although we have analyses, KDU-ČSL has analyses, many other independent experts have analyses that this does not conflict with European law...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u63	I'm so sorry. I ask my colleague Blažek and my colleague Faltýnek to transfer their call to the foyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u64	I already promised I wouldn't translate it for the third time, but if it were possible, Mr President, indeed, President Faltýnek, as it does not go into his microphone, so whenever someone is speaking things that are not pleasant to him, he really cries out from that bench like that last chaser. I don't think it's a dignified Chamber of Deputies. So you have agreed that this is contrary to European law, although, of course, it is not contrary to European law. And we have some reason to hide behind it so that we can say that it bothers us, and we, the Social Democrats, have always been against it, but there's nothing we can do about it now. And we're gonna do this again sometime next time in the conflict of interest law that we're gonna have a serious discussion about, and we're gonna figure it out the way we all know you're gonna figure it out today. You're gonna figure this out so Babiš doesn't get mad at you, because that's all it's been about from the start. And then you are surprised that I will use this slightly expressive word that I do not - I apologize to Mr Foldyn - the party as an institution cannot do it, but you are fucked up behind your ears, colleagues and colleagues. And despite what President Sobotka said here, when we vote on the conflict of interest, it will be exactly the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u65	Thank you to President Kalousek. Another duly applied for is the Member - sorry, with the priority right of the Minister. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return us to the objective of the Public Procurement Act. I understand that at the moment the whole debate has narrowed itself down to the two parliamentary amendments by Mr Plíšek, but the law is here for ten thousand contracting authorities at least. I cannot imagine that the mayor in a small village is currently waiting for something other than the whole new law on public procurement, new rules to know how to enter in so that he can possibly apply for European subsidies, etc. I fully understand and am able to understand why this proposal by Mr Plíšek appeared in this law. But please, let us ask one question: Does this belong to the Public Procurement Act? From my point of view and the point of view of the petitioner, we believe that if something should be dealt with, it is a law on conflict of interest. We have really worked very hard on this law. I came to the ministry where there was a novel going on. You've all heard me several times that I consider it a very unsystematic decision by the former head of the Ministry of Regional Development that the amendment has been decided at all. It took me time to prepare a new law. However, we had all the space to talk about him because you were part of my group. I would also like to say that the law will reduce bureaucracy. For example, there will be one protocol only after the award of the winning candidate. Not on every evaluation committee, we'll make protocols. That is what contracting authorities are waiting for, but also candidates. For example, certain formal documents will be available additionally. The offer will not be excluded immediately after formal inspection. At the same time, the law introduces new partnerships, such as innovative partnerships. It brings us new conditions to improve the award of research and development, for example. It brings the possibilities of different technologies. The law is much wider than this whole debate. [[10.50 hours]] I would also like to mention, and I have said this everywhere, that the law must cultivate the contracting environment in the Czech Republic and must also cultivate the applicant environment throughout the Czech Republic. The point is for applicants to enter according to the law and, above all, not to make as many mistakes as the existing amendments. And I want to mention this. This law was not prepared by the Ministry of Regional Development because of European subsidies, it did not prepare for European subsidies. We are preparing this law for public money not only for subsidies, but overall throughout the Czech Republic, that is for construction, but not for European subsidies. It is a part of it and, following the approval of the law, the Ministry of Regional Development will, of course, as a national authority for coordination and adapt our methodological guidelines to the new Public Procurement Act. I would like to tell you that, following the approval of this law, we have a great education for the contracting authorities and for all applicants. There's news that this third reading isn't about at all, and we're not talking about it. It's up to us and we're ready to really run it. However, I would still like to say and respond very briefly to what has been said here about the very conflict of interest. Only very briefly about the Austrian model mentioned here. We have now verified this very quickly with the representation of the Czech Republic in Austria. In Austria, this matter is dealt with in the law on conflict of interest and it is not a law on public procurement. And actually, the conflict of interest is managed there or delivered only on the basis of an announcement, which means that there's no one in the law that can't. It's announced in advance if anyone asks for the contract. That's just our quick response to what fell here based on legal analysis. I don't want to argue with legal analysis one, two, three, four. As a petitioner of this law, as Minister of Regional Development, I am obliged to draw all of you on the risks that will result from the amendments that may be adopted in this Chamber of Deputies, which may subsequently be adopted in the Senate and subsequently ensure that this law is effective. We all know that the Chamber of Deputies - I am subject to you, we have brought you the law, you have looked at it, you have given us over 360 amendments, from which we have withdrawn roughly two-thirds, and now we will vote on about 65, 68 amendments. I consider some of them very crucial, important, and thank you for them. It's not like we've prepared the law and we want to enforce it the way we gave it. The legislative section of the Parliament of the Czech Republic has helped us greatly improve this law, etc. However, please, the aim of this law is not to address the conflict of interests of a member of the government. The aim of this law is to cultivate the public environment within contracting entities and candidates throughout the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u67	Thank you, too, Madam Secretary. Have a good morning. Mr Plíšek is reporting with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u68	Well, I'll just briefly respond to the Minister. In Austria, if a member of the government has a share of 25 per cent, he must report it and his firms cannot participate in public procurement. Whether it's regulated by the conflict of interest law or other laws... In our country, public contracts are regulated by the Public Procurement Act, which is why the proposal went into this law. So just to clarify, to make it clear that this rule applies in Austria. It concerns public procurement of government members and is regulated in a law, but it is probably not quite important in which, but that it concerns public procurement of government members companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u69	Thank you, too. Now with priority rights, President Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u70	First I'm gonna tell you what I signed up for, and then I'm gonna respond to the previous debate. When we were here at first, second reading, the secretary calculated how many hours, how many weeks and months they worked on it, calculated who was working on it, who they consulted. The result is 361 amendments tabled, 11 were withdrawn today from Mr Adamec, so 350 amendments remain. It doesn't matter that there are fewer votes, but the points we're going to vote on are 350. 16 of which were filed by opposition MPs, 16 of which were 350. And I want to ask the Minister how many amendments her people from the ministry have written. With all due respect to my colleagues, I do not believe that any of us is able to write for example. 115 amendments to one bill. It's legitimate, I'm not questioning it. I wonder how many of these amendments are from the Ministry of Regional Development's workshop. Why do I say that? Because it shows that the law was not well prepared if there are hundreds of amendments. And it doesn't matter if there's 250, that the 350 is maybe 100 or 80 duplicates. So don't tell us that the law was well prepared when there are hundreds of amendments and most of them I think are from the workshop...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u71	I'm very sorry. Dear colleagues, please let President Stanjura finish talking. Let him who speaks speak in the foyer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u72	And I would also ask you not to speak to the secretary, because I believe she wants to listen to me. And then, of course, when you interrupt it, it cannot respond to what will be said in the debate. If you've been planning this for two and a half years, as the Prime Minister said, you've had plenty of time to discuss it another time and not just before the third reading vote. But that's not a complaint with the secretary, it's with those who are disturbing her. So my question is how much is from the local development department and which. And I really don't mind, but it is also important for my orientation in this vote whether it is the individual idea of one of the Members, or whether it is an opinion or an amendment prepared by the Ministry and for which the Ministry stands. Then I have to laugh at the Ministry of Regional Development's principled position, the legisvakance of seven days. Remember how the secretary said that they discussed it and that the ministry had a crucial position on it, and that is neutral. Well, don't be mad at me. A neutral position isn't principled. It's either positive or negative. I know that your party colleague did this and that it is wrong to say: we think that this is wrong, even though the amendment was tabled by a fellow Member from the ANO parliamentary club. But the position is neutral, which means you don't mind if it goes away. That's a clear interpretation of the word neutral. The Ministry doesn't care, the Minister doesn't care if the candidates and contracting entities have seven days and they don't have until the first or 1 September. So a neutral position, if it were up to me, I would forbid that to everyone in general. It's not difficult to decide for or against. What's neutral? I really don't understand. And the debate that's been going on for about the last hour. So the Prime Minister described the proposal made by colleague Plíšek as a white dog and that it is irrelevant. But why the passionate defense on the part of the secretary? The most he struggles with this amendment. I would say passionately, and many Social Democrats too. So if it's so meaningless and bad, then why are you so hard against it when it's completely unnecessary? I think the secretary said no. I really don't like it when someone moves and interprets for example. the decisions of the European institutions. It was the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Justice of 2008. And the secretary says, "We already have a decision on Greece, and I need to draw your attention to the risks." And it's a shifted interpretation. I quote to all of you and the Minister once again, quote from the verdict, from the decision. I will not comment or interpret this: "This Directive does not prevent a Member State from setting out further measures aimed at excluding a participant to ensure compliance with the principle of equal treatment of tenderers and the principles of transparency, unless such measures go beyond what is necessary to achieve this objective.' None of the interpretations that the secretary here is talking about at second reading, on committees, and the like that's not possible, none of it's there. Of course, if we were to approve, someone could complain, and someone would judge whether these measures go or do not go beyond what is necessary to achieve equal treatment of candidates and the principles of transparency. But that's an uncomfortable position, because if we approved it and someone felt threatened by it, they would have to complain and have to prove that the measure goes beyond what is necessary to achieve transparency. And that's very uncomfortable. [[11.00 hours]] It is much more comfortable to throw it off the table and say that it is contrary to European law. It really amazes the lightness of how a member of the Czech government authoritarianly says that something is or is not contrary to European law. It's exactly the same if I say it as an opposition MP. I'm not saying anything like that. I was just quoting from the decision. I said if anyone didn't like it, they could file a submission and somebody would judge whether it's beyond transparent or not. And it will not be me or any opposition MP who would consider it possibly with the suspicion that it is subjective. But equally, if I go back to another case that's filling the press' pages these days, then the people who work at the Treasury will judge whether or not there's been a breach of the subsidy rules, and no one sees a conflict of interest in it. Isn't that a double approach? Isn't that a double standard? Shouldn't we cancel this, too, so it doesn't? I'm not suggesting anything like that. I'm just saying, you're arguing based on how it suits you, you're pushing the interpretation and all that. However, I agree with what the Prime Minister said. This is not the main point of this bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u73	I apologize, and I beg the peace and quiet of the members of the government not to disturb the performers. Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u74	Thank you. But when the rapporteur here reads the voting procedure, you can ask yourself, answer the question of whether the law is well prepared, why we have hundreds of amendments and almost all of the government Members' workshops. I would understand that the Minister would discourage this objection, with the fact that it is the evil of the opposition, which has filled us with hundreds of amendments, that they want to completely rewrite the law that we, as a government majority, have prepared. But I said, you can check me out. When I take individual amendments, there are only 16 of them from the workshop of all opposition parties and all the other 334, either submitted by the committee, that is to say recommended by the committee, and in each committee the government majority has a comfortable majority, or individually government MPs, is 334. So you yourself are rewriting the government proposal with hundreds of amendments. You say it's well prepared. And I wonder how many of us will know exactly what they're voting on when we vote. Then I have one question for the procedure, but I will save that for the moment of approval of the procedure so as not to burden the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u75	Thank you to President Stanjur. With a factual remark, Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will respond to the previous speaker of my colleague Zbyněk Stanjura. I'm intrigued by the facts he's given here. But I'd move it a little further on how well it's actually prepared. If the secretary could answer. Because we know how many amendments there are and how many of them are going to be voted on. But he's got a positive attitude. And this percentage, to what extent the petitioner's positive position is going to be, is going to be the best argument that tells us about how well-prepared preparation has been made. Of course, we can do this in a way that, in the course of the vote, we will draw a line, how many times the petitioner's position has been expressed positive and how many times we do not. But since I don't have the right to vote, then I won't be able to respond, and it'll be after the vote. I think it might be interesting to know how many amendments the petitioner will have a positive opinion on. For me, it's gonna be a really big clue to make a picture of whether the original material was good or why it had to change so much. That doesn't mean I'm attacking. It's just an interest, really, facts, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u77	I thank Mr Fiedler. And now the duly registered Mr. Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u78	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, honourable Members, I would like to make a legislative technical proposal on my amendment P3, which I applied to press 637 in the third reading. The text of my Amendment P3 contains references to footnotes 10 and 11, which are already mentioned in the original draft law. In order to clarify my amendment, I state that footnote 10 is therefore a reference to Law No. 358/1992 Coll., on notaries and their activities, notary regulations, as amended, and footnote 11 is a reference, for example, to Act No. 120/2001 Coll., on judicial executioners and enforcement activities, enforcement order, and on the amendment of other laws, as amended, Act No. 358/1992 Coll., on notaries and their activities, notary regulations, as amended. I would now say a few words in support of my proposal, the whole P3 proposal. The original government proposal introduces an exception for legal services. So that legal services do not have to comply with the Public Procurement Act. I have made this proposal possible for this exception to be only up to the value of the contract of CZK 2 million and for a higher value of the contract of legal services a proper selection procedure would have to be drawn up. The reason is that I have experience from the past. In a number of hospitals directly established by the Ministry of Health, public contracts were awarded without competition, it was in the order of 15 or more million crowns, and I definitely think that public contracts for legal services from a certain amount, i.e. from the two million crowns, should go through a proper selection procedure. I know the competition is more complicated, but I think that even if there is no competition for legal contracts in general, it will lead to an increase in the price of legal services. I would now briefly touch on the amendment, my amendment P1 and P2 following the words of the Minister who said that he wanted to cultivate the conditions for public procurement. So my Amendment 1 wants the trading conditions for the general contractor to be the same for its subcontractors. And it's because there's experience that in a number of cases subcontractors have far worse conditions than the main suppliers. As regards Amendment 2, it states that the contracting authority is responsible for the correctness and completeness of the procurement conditions. Unfortunately, this is not the case in the original government proposal, which does not entirely follow from this, and if someone is issuing public contracts through a third party, then it should be clear that the contracting authority is responsible for the completeness. I think that would definitely contribute to the cultivation of the procurement procedure. And now I'd like to touch on that shift of the limit for multi-work to 50 percent. I know that this makes it possible for the European directive, but I can also understand that this will lead to contracts being - that they will compete with a lower price and then there will be an increase in more work, i.e. the limit will be allowed up to 50 per cent. For this reason, I recommend that the original amount, the original limit of 30%, be left to the government's proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u79	I thank Mr Hovorka. The last so far duly registered is Mr Lukáš Pleticha. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u80	Mr President, Mr Government, fellow Members, I would like to read, for the rapporteur's sake, an amendment under Section 95 paragraph. 2. These are modifications to legtech. First, it is necessary to apply legislative technical specifications to Amendment J3 because this amendment will be supplemented by Article 38 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 4 to 10. The other legtes concern Amendment R72, where I read that paragraph 6, not 5, should be added in Section 278, which is linked to Amendment O1. It is also necessary to apply the amendment in the voting procedure against the resolution of the guarantee committee, because Amendment A70 and R115 are the same. So in this procedure, first, we will name Amendment A70 into exceptions, and in the case of Amendments A and in the case of the voting on Amendment R114 and R115, then I will mention that it will be unvoting A70. And if R114 and R115 are not accepted, then the vote will be on A70. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u81	Thank you to the rapporteur. Another duly signed up is Mr Pavera, followed by Mr Koubek, followed by Mr Farský. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u82	Have a nice morning. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, dear colleagues, I would just like to respond briefly to some of the issues. I would ask the Minister if she could answer, perhaps even in the final words. Yes, we're the ones waiting for the law. Of course, even the mayors of smaller municipalities or towns are impatiently waiting for the law. Unfortunately, we already know that for this year we basically need to compete as soon as possible with public contracts under the old law, so that we can do some constructions by the end of the year. I want to ask the Minister about the implementation of the Public Procurement Act if they are on time. Because, according to the legislative rules, they were to be presented with the law. I also want to ask whether the funds and instruments for the application of the Public Procurement Act, such as the Public Procurement Bulletin, a list of qualified suppliers, or whether the documents of contracting entities have already been provided to modify their contracting authority profile. The law should be simple, but unfortunately it isn't. You know there's a lot of paragraphs in there. I believe that the methodological instruction will at least partly bring relief from the many paragraphs so that it can clearly and simply state how public procurement is to be carried out in municipalities and cities. And since we're doing a vast majority of small-scale contracts, I'm sure there'll be an explanation for everything. Thank you for your attention, and I believe the Minister will answer me later.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u83	Thank you, Mr Paver. Another duly signed up is Mr Koubek, after whom the last duly signed up Mr Farský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Members of Parliament, I am watching this debate very closely as you are, and I think that some of the facts should not quite fit in, we should not completely slip out of them, and it should be worth recalling some of the things that have also been said here at second reading, which are being discussed here today, because some of the commitments of the members of the government are also coming out of today's debate. I think it would be good to keep them in mind. In the second reading of this law, Minister Šlechtová has already spoken about today's widely discussed amendment by colleague Martin Plíšek, which is currently having a heated debate and which concerns that companies that are controlled or owned by a member of the government could not participate in public procurement. The Minister rejected this amendment from the very beginning. At least it serves her to honor that she hasn't changed her mind like some of our other colleagues. However, for the argument here at second reading, the Minister used his very original interpretation of the European Court of Justice's decision, and although it has been corrected today, I still think it is good to quote what the Minister said here at second reading. I quote: "This is a proposal which is contrary to European law. This is a decision of the Court of Justice of Greece, a case that has already been closed. The list of reasons for exclusion from the contract is limited and the Member State cannot set another one. In the Greek case, the Constitution directly forbade the participation in public procurement to companies owned by a person who is also the owner of the media. The Court ruled that such a measure was disproportionate. It is not possible to automatically prohibit participation in public procurement to those suppliers owned by, for example, a member of the government.' End of quote. So it may have already been said that this was not a decision of the Court of Justice of Greece, that it was in fact a decree of the European Court of Justice. But it's not that important. That's more of a slip of the tongue. Rather, a more serious error is a statement of limitations on the grounds for exclusion from public procurement. On the contrary, it is clearly stated in the judgment that the exhaustive list in Directive 93/37 does not exclude the possibility for Member States to maintain or adopt their own substantive rules to ensure compliance with the principle of equal treatment in the field of public contracts and have the right to add additional criteria according to their considerations, because - now let me quote: "Each Member State can best identify situations in the light of the historical, legal, economic or social aspects of its own, which may lead to infringements of these principles.' Thus, European law does not prohibit its own rules if they meet the proportionality aspect. I think that all of us who have read in detail the amendment by Mr Martin Plíšek, we must say that we cannot doubt the inadequacy given the permanent and monumental conflict of interests of one of the members of the government that we are witnessing today and daily. For this reason too, I will personally support this amendment by Mr Plíšek. But it's funny, sadly funny, to watch rhetoric change here during this day. Madam Secretary got off here. And that she would apologize for actually misinformed us? No. The debate has moved somewhere else. It's not a problem anymore. It's not a problem. But it's part of another law. It will be dealt with in another law. I am personally sorry that Members of social democracy have changed their minds and will not support this good amendment by Mr Martin Plíšek. There's only one thing that comes out of it. Prime Minister Sobotka doesn't like trouble. Members of social democracy enjoyed the intoxicating feeling of being heroes for two weeks, and they slept through it today. Very sad story. By approving the EET Act, you've gotten control of the smallest businessman, and yet you refuse to control the gigantic clashes that we're witnessing here today. Clashes in hundreds of millions, maybe billions. That's a total spit in the face of all citizens, all businessmen. And from today's speech by Prime Minister Sobotka, allow me to paraphrase that the two laws - the Public Procurement Act and the Conflict of Interest Act, which we are also discussing, are allegedly mixed together by this amendment by Mr Plíšek. And if I am to quote directly, social democracy is in favour of tightening the conditions for the government's business, the Prime Minister said here today. The Prime Minister said that the party would prove it when a month later the vote was taken on tightening up the conflict of interest law. Prime Minister, you are untrustworthy. We all know that this heroic attitude will put you back to sleep that month. And there will be nothing again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u85	I thank Mr Koubek. The last so far duly registered is Mr Jan Farský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to remind you that there is already a second dilution of public procurement in this parliamentary term. The first dilution went through the novel that took place here in the past period. As a result, over the last year, the number of tenders has increased by 82 percent in tenders - one, and thus the winning bid. Year-on-year increase of one tender in the selection procedure by 82 per cent. We got into worse numbers than we did in 2010, at a time when, on the basis of this data, the European Union stopped funding from European programmes. Now we come to the second release. Small-scale public contracts are completely excluded, while the 2012 transparency amendment proposed by Prime Minister Nečas and Minister for Regional Development Jankovský would mean that, in this situation, the limits for public contracts are already set not at two and six million, but at one and one million, which would bring us closer to European standards. It raises this proposal because it is contrary to the reality that would apply if nothing was accepted, it raises the limits to two to six million, which completely removes ourselves from European space. [[11.20 hours]] I want to ask the question to all members of the coalition. While after businessmen, you want to see every invoice from entrepreneurs, you want proof from them for every lollipop, you want to have every crown documented, which they have taken and with which they manage, so for you the limit of how you manage their funds is two to six million and you don't want to admit more? I find it incredibly lacquered and especially in this situation. I can understand Mr. YES. Mr. Babiš, in an interview for the Financial Times, said he was basically party owners, so I understand they're performing. But I would turn to Members of Social Democracy. You can't ask businessmen and entrepreneurs to show you every crown, and then split the money in millions. And if you vote in accordance with the way you presented this morning, there's no other way to stand up. I just think that public contracts - the best, the best, and not the most powerful - should succeed in them. Therefore, I would like to ask you, especially Members of Social Democracy, to consider the support of amendments C1, C2, C3, which will result in at least partially eliminating the contradiction in your approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u87	Thank you, Mr Farsky, that was the last one entered into the debate so far. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. Madam Secretary, I didn't mean to discourage you, but you still have the possibility of a final word. If no one else reports, I am done with the debate. I ask about the final words of the appellant or the rapporteurs. The plaintiff, then. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just a few responses to what has now been said in the last 15 minutes. I would like to say that it is the Chamber of Deputies, it is the Senate of the Czech Republic, which approved the last amendment, which is actually valid from 1 April 2015, and it is written there, and this is what you all wanted not to cancel the contract with one offer. [[Screams in the hall.]] I would like to say - not all of us, I am sorry - I would like to say that 82 percent is not true, there is an increase, but 82 percent is not. On the question of how many amendments the Ministry of Regional Development has proposed. I never kept it a secret. In our tables, in our documents, it is written everywhere who has tabled an amendment. Of these 365 roughly the Ministry of Regional Development has delivered about a hundred amendments, which are primarily of a formal nature, and here it is also that we have corrected some errors from the Government Legislative Council, because of course it was in cooperation with all of them. I admit it is true, but I must add one thing: Without our 100 amendments, the law would be as good as I believe it is now. It was enough, they didn't have to be accepted. We propose that they be accepted, approved by the committee, and we are very happy for that. As regards the responses to implementing rules and methodologies. Implementing regulations have been passed on to the government with the law, and these implementations have already been passed in a commentary procedure, and at this point they will be at the Legislative Council of the Government. The question was also on methodology. We will not write one methodology, because the law is so demanding that we will write several of them, and of course they will go into the commentary proceedings in the near future. They're already done, now they're spinning at my house at the Ministry of Regional Development, then they're going to go into inter-departmental commentary proceedings because we want to involve everyone to remind us how we're going to interpret our law. I can't but respond to one last thing. We're a little caught up in the words on the parliamentary motion, about a conflict of interest. I'd like to say that the word "taxative" means a complete list. I have already made it clear at second reading that further measures should be taken if they do not go beyond the scope of necessity. That's what the judgments say, the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The point is, therefore, that it is not possible to automatically anticipate the existence of conflicts of interest. The supplier must be able to demonstrate that there is no conflict of interest. I really have to say here that our law wasn't ready to discuss whether a member of the government who owns a company can apply for public contracts. This law transposes three European directives, these directives are enormously demanding. We have co-translators, the Office for Competition Protection, and together with this law we wrote a law where we believe it will correct what caused our 22 amendments here with the Public Procurement Act 137. I have to say, and I want to declare it here, I know it's gonna turn up everywhere, and I'm just gonna be glad that I'm personally behind this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u89	I thank the Minister for her final word. I'm asking the rapporteur's final words. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u90	Mr President, my dear government, my colleagues, I would just briefly sum up what we have been through to this point. In total, 361 amendments were tabled to this law and now, at third reading, two further amendments under Section 95 (2) were read. 2. One was given by me, the other by Mr Ludvík Hovorka, who relates to the legacy. We're going to have a rather difficult procedure because a number of these designs are against each other, they're excluded, the procedure is branched. I will therefore propose the following procedure in agreement with the guarantors from individual clubs. For the procedure, I will only read the amendments to the proposals and then, after we approve the procedure and then proceed to the vote on the various amendments, so I will always briefly say the motto, a few words of what the issue relates, so that everyone knows which material is being voted on. It will be especially important where the counterproposals, the voting procedure, the branches. After dealing with all the amendments, I will ask the President for a break of about 15 minutes to actually check with the legislation that we have dealt with all the voting proposals during the procedure. Only then will I propose that we proceed to the final vote. So much in brief from me at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u91	I thank the rapporteur for the final words. With a factual remark, Mr Bendl. I'm sorry, but we haven't come to the procedure yet. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u92	I'm just here about the procedure, because I don't realize, I didn't hear the rapporteur report what we agreed to, the withdrawal of the Adamec's replacement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u93	It'll actually be in procedure. We'll get to it in no time. We will proceed to the vote on the amendments. I now ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee to inform us of the whole voting procedure, to present individual amendments and to give us an opinion on them. I would also like to point out that, in addition to the rapporteur, before the final vote on the bill as a whole, the President of the TOP 09 and the Mayor announced that he also wants a break of 20 minutes, the rapporteur also wants a break before the overall vote, so I would like to point out to the honourable colleagues that there will probably be a break before the final vote. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u94	So thank you for your word. As the first vote, we dare to propose a vote on legislative technical amendments, including those which have been read today. I will then propose a vote on the voting procedure in which what has been said by Mr Farský to vote on paragraph A14 separately, and a note from the legislation that point A70 should be included in the correct place of the procedure and excluded from the vote on the amendments under point A. So I would now read exactly how these individual steps will proceed. [[A reminder from the O.R.]] Download? Okay, so at the beginning, we're going to vote... But we've already agreed?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u95	We have already voted on the withdrawal of proposals. We have already voted on Mr Adamec. We are very progressive, Mr President. We act quickly and efficiently.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u96	So the draft that we've been downloading doesn't tie to any other branched procedure. Let's just skip the point in what you have in the House press 637/8. I'd like to start reading the voting procedure now. In the first vote, we will vote all amendments under point A, except A2, A7, A10, A11, A12, A14 - this is from Mr Farský - A43, A52, A55, A64, A70 - these are legislative technical from legislation - A98, A99, A126 and A143. We will set these points aside for a separate vote. Then the unvoting duplicate points B12, O19, also A151, B13 and O17, which are related to A37, will be unvoting. Further R2 to R29, R31 to R71, R75 to R79, R81 to R90, R92 to R105, R107 to R110. R106 is unvoting for a substantive contradiction with A148. Then we'll proceed to the next step. Amendment A2 will be voted on. If it is accepted, it will be unvoting B1 and L. They're both duplicated with A2. Further M6 and H. If A2 is not accepted, then we will vote on M6 and then it will be unvoting H. If M6 is not adopted then we will vote on H. This would deal with this heading of amendments. In the next step, we will vote jointly on M7, M8 and M9. Legally technical changes related to M7. Then in the next step, we will vote on the A7. Then by A10. Then A11. If accepted, then the unvoted B2 with which this proposal is duplicated. I then place the vote on paragraph A14, which is the request of Mr Farský to have the A14 voted separately. The vote on paragraph B3 is followed. If it's accepted, it'll be an unvoting A12. And if B3 is not accepted, then we will vote on A12. In the next step, A43. If A43 is accepted, then the J5 proposal will be unvoting. If A43 is not accepted, then we will vote on J5. Next step - J4. If it is accepted, then it will be unvoting S, with which it is duplicated. The next proposal is A52 - it is an independent vote. The next point will be D4. If D4 is accepted, then the A55 will be unvoting. If the D4 is not adopted, then we will vote on the A55. There'll be a change at the next point. We will vote first at the same time on R114 and R115. 115 are legislative technical related to R114. Then it will be unvoting A64, A70 and R91. If the R114 and 115 are not adopted, then we will vote on the A70. If it is accepted, then it will be unvoting A64 and R91. If the A70 is not accepted, then we will vote on the A64 and then it will be unvoting R91, which is a duplicate. The next step is A98. If A98 is accepted, then it will be unvoting B7, which is duplicate and A99. If the A98 is not adopted, then we will vote on the A99. In the next step, we will vote on A143. If accepted, then it will be unvoting R1, which is a duplicate, but also B10, B11 and O20. If the A143 is not adopted, then we will vote simultaneously B10 and B11 and then it will be unvoting O20 - duplicate. In the next step - C4. If accepted, then the non-voting A126 and D6 will be unvoting. They're both duplicated with C4. C5 - if accepted, then it will be unvoting O7 with which it is duplicated. The next item is R74 - independent voteable. In the next step, we will vote simultaneously on R111 and R112. If R111 and R112 are adopted, J6, J7, B8, O8 will be non-voting. If R111 and R112 are not accepted, then we will vote on O8 and then J6, J7 and B8 will be unvoting. If the O8 is not adopted then we will vote simultaneously J6, J7 and then the B8 will be unvoting. If J6 and J7 are not accepted, then we will vote on B8. Next point - R113. If R113 is accepted, then the unvoting will be J8, O9, O21. If R113 is not accepted, then the vote will be O9 and then the vote will be unvoting O21 where there is a duplicate with O9 and J8. If O9 is not accepted then we will vote on J8. Furthermore, we will vote separately on Amendments B4, B5 and B6. We will vote on K1's vote so that if it is adopted, then it will be unvoting B9 and O15. If K1 is not accepted, then we will vote B9 and then it will be unvoting O15. Duplicate. In the next step, we will vote simultaneously on amendments C1, C2, C3. At the next point, we will vote simultaneously on F1 and F2. If they are accepted, then J2 will be unvoting, which is a duplicate, J3 and M5. If F1 and F2 are not adopted, then we will vote on J3. If J3 is accepted, the M5 will be unvoting. If J3 is not accepted then we will vote on M5 and then it will be unvoting O3, D1 and D2. If the M5 is not adopted, we will vote on O3. If M5 is not adopted, we will also vote on D1 and D2. Furthermore, we will vote separately on proposals D3 and D5. In the Houses of the Press, we are now getting to the amendments that have been eliminated. You're skipping. That's E1 through E9. We're not voting on that. But we will continue with Amendment E10 separately. Further E11 separately, G separately, I1 separately, I2 separately, J1. Next, we will vote jointly on M1 and M2. If it is accepted, then it will be unvoting K2 due to duplication. Next, we will vote together on M3 and M4. Furthermore, we will vote separately on proposals N1, N2. We will vote on proposals N3 and N4 together. We will also vote separately on proposals N5, N6, O1, O2, O4, O5, O6, O10, O11, O12, O13, O14, O16, O18. Furthermore, we will vote separately on proposals P1, P2, P3, P4, Q, R30, R72, R73, R80. And then there will be a break, and finally there will be a vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u97	I thank the rapporteur for the draft procedure. Mr Hovorka, the President of Stanjura, is first applying for the procedure. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u98	Thank you for the floor. I have one more request for the proposed procedure. I would like to ask that of this joint vote on points And A42 and A109 - A42 is the extension of JŘBÚ and A109, which is the shift of the more work from 30 to 50 percent. So that they should be voted separately and not in block A.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u99	Separately when, Mr. Ambassador?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u100	At the time, as Mr Farský proposed a separate vote on the A14, I suggest that these two points should be voted on separately as well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u101	So after A14, there would be a vote on A42 and A109. Thank you. Now, Chairman Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u102	Once again, I would like to thank you for the 100 amendments prepared by the MMR and the hundreds prepared by other government Members. However, I would like to ask and draw attention to the error in the proposed procedure, when point A128 is to be voted in the block with the other blocks. [[points?]] In my opinion, it is lacking that, if approved, we cannot vote on B9, K1 and O15, and in that case, there is a completely confusing point 23 of the voting procedure, when the vote is to be taken on point K1, which, in my view, is not possible, because the same vote is already taken in point A128.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u103	So, Mr. Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u104	Mr President, I would like a five-minute break to put this together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u105	So there's a request from the Dawn MP for a 10-minute break. [[Messenger. Black man asking for 20 minutes.]] It's 20. [[Glee in the hall.]] So there's a request - Mr. Chairman Černoch is asking for a 20-minute break, is that correct, or has it gotten any bigger?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u106	No, no, no. Thank you so much for the floor. I'm asking for a 20-minute break, there's a lot of amendments to make this clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u107	So I interrupt the House meeting for a break from the Dawn Assembly until 12.02 hours. I'll meet you here at 12.02.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. Since the whole procedure is not yet fully tuned, after discussing with the rapporteur, we agreed that we must extend the break by five more minutes so that there is real order in the procedure and we did not surprise each other here. So I'm extending my break until 12.08 hours. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 12.02 to 12.08 hours.]] Colleagues and colleagues, unfortunately, since the order of voting of amendments has been adjusted, numbering has completely upset and we must move the vote to 12.20. I have to reschedule because we can't adjust the procedure sooner. Really, the whole system broke down. I'm asking for your patience.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for a break is up. Before we go any further, I'm gonna read one note that came to me. Today, from 12 o'clock on health grounds, Mr Vojtěch Adam apologizes. As there has been a renumbering of individual points under the procedure, I will ask the club presidents to come to the rapporteur and take over the voting procedure so that you can control the procedure as it takes place. [[Short break for handing over material to club presidents.]] I assume each of the MPs has a draft voting procedure. But since there has been a change, I will ask the rapporteur to read this voting procedure again, because I will then vote on it. Just so we know what the procedure will look like. [[Reactions from the O.R.]] Only if you do not object to the fact that the materials delivered are sufficient to allow us to vote on the procedure, so in that case we will continue without reading the whole procedure. I therefore wonder whether it is sufficient that you have been given the material about how we will vote on the voting procedure, whether it is sufficient whether anyone objects and wants to read the procedure. It's not like that. In that case, I would like to put to the vote - I will call my colleagues from the lobby - on the procedure for the procedure. The rapporteur still wants to take his word for it. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been reminded that it may not have been quite clear that two legislative technical changes have also been recorded here. Points 1 to 13, which are part of the House's press 637/8, were adopted by the Guarantee Committee. Furthermore, two legislative technical proposals, amendments, have been added to the plenary. One concerns Amendment J3, the other amendment R72, which I have tabled here. Furthermore, a colleague, Ludvík Hovorka, tabled an amendment to the legislative technical references here at the plenary. Let us be clear about what we are voting on in the vote on legislative technical proposals, changes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u111	Thank you. And then follow the procedure as it was given to you. Since no one has raised an objection, I am opening the vote and asking who agrees with the proposed voting procedure and procedures, as they have been put forward here and how they have been distributed to you. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a 99-order vote. 175 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 159, against 2. I'm stating that the procedure proposed has been approved. We will now proceed with the voting procedure as proposed. I ask the rapporteur to present the various amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote, as well as the Minister. Even my colleagues and colleagues, given the scale of the amendments, I will ask you to remain calm and at the same time to be patient in order to pass through this voting procedure successfully. Thank you. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u112	I'll have another minute, please. I've got a lot of paperwork to do here. [[After a short break.]] Yes, so I'm ready now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u113	Let's do this. I'm registering a request for your check-out, which means I'm going to unsubscribe all of you, and I'm going to ask you again to sign up with your cards. Please, rapporteur, let us begin.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u114	We were the first to approve the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u115	Yes, it is approved, we can now proceed to individual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u116	So now I propose to vote on legislative technical changes. Opinion recommending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u117	Madam Secretary. [[Agreed.]] Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, as it has been put forward, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a 100-order vote. 172 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 170, and there was no one against it. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been approved. Please, we can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u118	We will now vote on the first complex of amendments and these are the amendments recommended by the Committee on Public Administration under point A, except for points A2, A7, A10, A11, A12, A14, A42, A43, A52, A55, A64, A70, A98, A99, A109, A126, A128, A143.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u119	The position of the guarantee committee?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u120	These are earmarked for a separate vote and then become an unvoted duplicate B12, O19, B13, O17, R2 to R29, R31 to R71, R75 to R79, R81 to R90, R92 to R105, R107 to R110. R106 is unvoting for a substantive contradiction with A148. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee recommending it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u121	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. I ask who's in favour of the suggestion that he press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 101. 172 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 171, against none. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u122	We are now going to the second vote, we are going to vote on Amendment A2. If it is accepted, then it will be unvoting B1, L1, both duplicate with A2, M6 and H. If not accepted A2, then we will vote M6, then it will be unvoting H, and if not adopted M6, then we will vote on H. So now we are voting on proposal A2. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee recommending it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u123	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 102, with 172 Members registered, for proposal 170, against none. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u124	We will now vote in the third step together on amendments M7, M8 and M9. Opinion of the guarantee committee not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u125	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 103, 173 Members and Members registered, for proposal 6, against 122. I am of the opinion that this proposal has not been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u126	So now we will vote on Amendment A7. Opinion not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u127	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 104, 173 Members and Members registered, for proposal 152, against 108. This proposal has not been agreed with. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u128	Yes, we will now vote on Amendment A10 and it concerns the division of public procurement in the regions. Opinion not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u129	Madam Secretary? [[Neutral.]] Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 105; 172 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 51, against 97. This proposal was rejected. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u130	We will now vote on Amendment A11, which concerns lawyers, tax advisors and their inclusion in the procurement documents. Opinion recommending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u131	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 106, with 172 Members registered, for 112, against 46. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u132	We will now vote in the seventh step on proposal A14. This is the one excluded on the basis of the request of Mr Jan Farský and concerns the conditions for participation in the procurement procedure. Opinion in favour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u133	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 107, with 172 Members registered, for proposal 125, against 43. The proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u134	The next item is A42, which is the one that we have allocated at the request of Mr Ludvík Hovorka. The contracting authority may apply the negotiated procedure without publication if the contract can only be met by a particular contractor. The opinion of the guarantee committee shall be in agreement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u135	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 108, 172 Members and Members signed up for proposal 160, against 4. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u136	Now we are going to vote in the ninth step of A109, that is the one that we have also set aside. This concerns § 198, which rephrases and concerns additional works or services of the same supplier. Opinion in favour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u137	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, as it has been put forward, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 109, with 172 Members present, for proposal 95, against 46. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u138	We will now vote on the tenth step, on Amendment B3, which concerns a preliminary market consultation. Opinion in favour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u139	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, as it has been put forward, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 110; 172 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 169, against 1. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u140	So I'm adding that then it becomes an unvoted A12 proposal. We can go to the next point, this is the vote on Amendment A43, which concerns commodity exchanges. Opinion not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u141	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 111; 172 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 5, against 110. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been rejected. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u142	Another proposal is J5, which also concerns commodity exchanges, a dissenting opinion. This time it's about conjecture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u143	I just want to ask: we voted on paragraph 11, where Amendment A43 is. [[Agreed.]] Then the J5 is unvoting?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u144	Sorry, then it's unvoting J5, and if A43 isn't accepted, then vote J5, so...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u145	Since he wasn't accepted by A43...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u146	Then we'll vote on J5.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u147	J5. That's right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u148	So thank you for fixing it. We will vote on point J5 and there is an unadvisable position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u149	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 112, 172 Members and Members registered, for none. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been rejected. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u150	Another point is J4, which is duplicated with Amendment S. It also concerns commodity exchanges and concerns trading under stock exchange rules. Opinion not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u151	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, as it has been put forward, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 113; 172 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 21, against 117. I am of the opinion that this proposal has not been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u152	We will now vote on Amendment A52, which concerns the turnover achieved by the supplier with regard to the subject matter of the contract. The position of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u153	Thank you. Madam Secretary? [[Neutral.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 114, 173 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 162, against 5. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been approved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u154	We will now vote on Amendment D4, which concerns joint references according to the actual extent of supplies, services or works. This proposal is - if it is accepted, then it will be an unvoting proposal A55. And if it is not accepted, then we will vote on the A55. The position of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u155	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 115, 173 Members and Members registered, for proposal 40, against 95. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been rejected. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u156	Another suggestion. In this case, we will vote on proposal A55. This proposal concerns... [[A hesitation.]] This also applies to § 79 para. 4. The replacement of the words "to the full extent of the contract' by the words "to the extent that it has participated in the performance of the contract'. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u157	Madam Secretary? [[Neutral.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 116, 173 Members and Members signed up, for proposal 167, against none. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. Please, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u158	We will now consider proposals R114 and R115. If they're accepted, it'll be unvoting A70, A64 and R91. If they're not accepted, we'll keep voting, the procedure's longer, then I'll say it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u159	Committee opinion? [[Recommendant.]] Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 117, 173 Members and Members signed up, for proposal 167, against none. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u160	So I'm adding that this has become unvoting proposals A70, A64 and R91. We are now going to Amendment A98, which concerns small-scale concessions. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u161	Madam Secretary? [[It's a major disagreement.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 118, 173 Members and Members registered, for proposal 24, against 136. This proposal was rejected. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u162	So this has become an unvoted B7 proposal from duplication and A99. We will now vote in step 17 on Amendment A143. This concerns the fee at the ÚOHS for the complaint of CZK 10,000. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u163	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I'll wait, because there's a reminder from the legislation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u164	Oh, so I'm sorry about the mistake. Back to the next step. We have not accepted Amendment A98; we have yet to vote on paragraph A99. I apologize for this mistake. I'll ask if we can go back and finish the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u165	I propose that, given that we have one amendment to vote and then we return to this point, that is, I will ask you, we are currently at point A143 at point 17 and repeat our positions, we will vote and then we will come back.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u166	Okay, thank you. So we're going back to the charge point, the OOHS. The proposal to collect an administrative fee of CZK 10,000 for the complaint. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u167	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 119, 173 Members and Members registered, for proposal 107, against 41. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been approved. This concludes the vote at paragraph 17, and I will now ask you to complete the vote, as has been said from the legislation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u168	Yes, so please, colleagues, let's go back to point 16. We did not accept point A98, we still have to deal with Amendment A99 and it concerns the procedure for small-scale concessions to comply with the principles set out in Section 6. The opinion is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u169	Madam Secretary? [[Neutral.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 120, 173 Members and Members registered, for proposal 51, against 101. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been rejected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u170	Now we can move to the point...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u171	We'll stay at A143. [[Yes?]] If not adopted, vote simultaneously B10 and B11.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u172	He's been admitted. The proposal was adopted and thus became an unvoting proposal R1 due to duplication as well as proposals B10, B11 and O20.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u173	Okay. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u174	Thank you. Now, first things first. We are now going to step 18 and that is Amendment C4. This is an amendment to the Constitutional Legal Committee and concerns multi-work, the need of which the contracting authority, acting with due care, could not anticipate, or repeal. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u175	Madam Secretary? [[Neutral.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 121, 173 Members and Members registered, for proposal 137, against 4. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u176	Now we're going to point 19. This concerns Amendment C5, which also concerns additional construction works and additional services or supplies. It's from the constitutional committee. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u177	Madam Secretary? [[Neutral.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, as it has been put forward, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 122, 173 Members and Members, for proposal 110, against 3. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u178	Now we're going to the next step - R74. This is a point concerning the change in commitments and, in particular, the definition of what is not considered a substantial change in the commitment. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u179	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 123; 173 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 165, against 3. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u180	We are now going in step 21 to the joint vote on proposals R111 and R112. In short, it's more work, fifty-fifty. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u181	Madam Secretary? [[Neutral.]] Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 124, 173 Members and Members registered, for proposal 86, against 71. This proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u182	Now we have to vote -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u183	I will ask you to be patient, because I see that there is a vote check going on, so before we proceed, there will be a vote check. I'm registering an application here. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u184	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to call into question the previous vote - I voted yes, but I have a no on high. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u185	Thank you. As an objection has been raised, I will first put it to a vote. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this objection to vote being accepted, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 125, 174 Members are registered, for proposal 166, against no one. Objection received. In that case, we shall repeat the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u186	Yes. So I repeat, we're going to vote on multi-work on individual items - the possibility of an increase of 50 percent. Not in sum, it will be in the next step, but in individual parts: fifty-fifty percent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u187	Opinions have been made, in which case I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 126, 173 Members and Members, for proposal 86, against 75. This proposal was rejected. [[A round of applause for several members of the Dawn movement.]] The vote is being reviewed again. I'm sorry, colleagues, before we go any further, I have to wait for an objection to be raised. I'm registering an objection here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u188	Colleagues, now I want to ask - it's really the first time I've been here in the House. I pressed, I voted, but I didn't have anything, there wasn't a vote on my machine at all, so I would like to question him and ask him to vote one more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u189	My colleague, I am afraid that I do not know whether the objection put forward in this way is voteable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u190	Thank you. I'm sorry, I'm questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u191	Anyway, there must be a reason why the vote is called into question. I can't just vote on questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u192	Thank you. I question the vote because I voted differently than is on the record of this vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u193	Too many priority rights are reported. I'll give you all my word. I'll beg your patience anyway. First of all, the rapporteur, let me ask you to wait, first of all, President Kalousek with priority rights. Please note that the debate is not open. Now only those with priority rights can speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u194	Thank you for the floor. I was going to ask, ladies and gentlemen, for tolerance. There used to be times when a person wanted to challenge a vote, he had to give a reasonable opinion and a reasonable reason. However, times have moved. I think that the fact that someone is a member of YES is a sufficient reason.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u195	Thank you. I will now ask President Kováčik with priority rights. He doesn't want to get out. That is why I am asking if anyone is questioning the vote. Excuse me, I'm sorry, Chairman Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u196	I believe that what has so far been heard on the microphone is not voteable. It's not. Either there will be a proper objection that we can vote on, or we need to move on. And while I'm at the microphone, it's nice how the most transparent movement in the world beats so we can raise the price by 50 percent. Very nice!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u197	Mr Kolovratník, as is customary, the vote is mostly called into question that you wanted to vote in favour or against, and you have a different outcome at the high ground. That means I'm going to ask you to question the vote to make it clear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u198	Please, one more time, I hope I get another chance. This has really been my first time, and it is not, please, colleagues from the opposition, on purpose. I voted yes, in high school, I have a cross on the record. I pressed the button, but I really have a cross on the junk, which is why I question this vote. And believe me, this is the first time I've done this, not on purpose. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u199	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. This proposal shall be put to the vote. That means I'm gonna check you all out first, and I'm gonna ask you to sign up with your cards. I'll wait for the numbers to settle. An objection to the vote has been raised. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of accepting this objection, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this objection? It is a vote with order number 127, 173 Members are registered, for proposal 136, against 7. I am of the opinion that the opposition has been approved and that we will repeat the vote. I will ask you, rapporteur, to repeat what point we are voting on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u200	Yes. We are voting on points R111 and R112, which concern § 222 and the possibility of increasing the value of additional works for each item by a maximum of 50 per cent, does not exceed. We will vote on how much it can be in whole in the following procedure. We're dealing with individual items here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u201	Thank you. I'm gonna ask for my opinion again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u202	Opinion of the Guarantee Committee - Recommending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u203	Madam Secretary? [[Neutral.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 128, registered by 173 Members, for proposal 90, against 76. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been approved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u204	Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u205	I am afraid, Mr rapporteur, that we will not be able to continue the vote. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u206	Thank you, Mr President. So you can see how the device works. I voted no, and I got high. So I'm questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u207	Okay. In that case, we will again put to the vote on this objection. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of objecting and questioning the vote, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 129, 174 Members are registered, for proposal 161, against 1. The opposition has been agreed and we will repeat the vote on this point. Do we need to repeat the point on which we are voting? I can't see. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, as it has been tabled, to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 130, 173 Members are registered, for proposal 89, against 78. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. Before we go any further, I'm asking, for the record, if anyone is objecting. I don't see anyone. In that case, we shall continue the vote. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u208	I hereby add that the adoption of these two amendments has become unvoting proposals J6, J7, B8 and O8. We can proceed to the next point, that is Amendment R113, and it concerns - I will read it all to you: in § 222 para. The following sentence shall be added: For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Opinion of the Guarantee Committee - Recommending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u209	I am sorry, Mr rapporteur, but although I have asked if anyone is questioning the vote... [[Mrs Nováková reporting on the right.]] Do you report to challenge the vote of the previous paragraph, Madame? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u210	Ladies and gentlemen, yes, now here's a note that the voting device is not working well. I'm sorry, but I have to question the vote because I have a yes against my intention there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u211	If I understand this correctly, Madame, for your objection to be voteable, you voted against, and you are in favour of high school. [[Yes.]] Okay. There is an objection to the vote in the previous paragraph, that is to say, the amendments under point 21. [[Big noise in the hall.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of accepting this objection, press the button and raise your hand. At the same time, I will ask you for peace, colleagues and colleagues. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 131, 174 Members are registered, for proposal 164, against 2. I am of the opinion that the opposition has been approved and that we will repeat the previous vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u212	So I repeat, we're voting for a 50 percent increase in individual items - proposals R111, R112.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u213	Opinions have been made. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 132, 173 Members are registered, for proposal 91, against 79. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. And for the record, I ask myself once again before we continue to vote whether anyone is objecting to this vote in progress. It's not like that. So I take it no one's bringing it up. We will now continue with another amendment. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u214	Yes. We are now approaching the vote on Amendment R113, which limits the maximum value of multi-work in total to 30% of the value of the contract. Opinion recommending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u215	Thank you. Madam Secretary? [[Neutral.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, as it has been put forward, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 133, 174 Members are registered, for proposal 145, against 4. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u216	Thank you. The adoption of the proposal R113 has made the unvoting amendments J8, O9, O21. And now we move forward to step 23, this is Amendment B4. It is an amendment from the Economic Committee and concerns the release of gas reservoirs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u217	Opinion? [[Rapporteur: Recommendant.]] Madam Secretary? [[Neutral.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 134, 174 Members are registered, for proposal 138, against 25. The proposal has been approved. Please, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u218	Yes. We will now proceed to the next point concerning proposal B5. This proposal concerns... the addition of that provision § 4 para. 4 shall not apply to sub-limit sectoral contracts and the existing paragraphs shall be referred to as paragraphs 3 and 4. So this is about supplementing the clause. Opinion not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u219	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? Voting with order number 135, 174 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 15, against 151. The motion was denied. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u220	The other proposal is Amendment B6 of the Economic Committee, which concerns that a new Section 160, specific provision should be introduced for the public procurement scheme, according to which the second sentence of Section 24 does not apply to sectoral public procurement. Opinion of the guarantee committee not recommended. Disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u221	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 136. 174 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 1, against 151. This proposal was rejected. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u222	We are now coming to point A128, which we have excluded from the comprehensive approval of the amendments to the Public Administration Committee. It relates to the addition of the words "and this without undue delay after it has been established' in § 223 in para. 2. If this proposal is adopted, K1, B9, O15 will not be put to the vote. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee - Recommending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u223	Madam Secretary? [[It's a vital agreement.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 137. 174 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 173, against no one. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u224	Okay, so I'm adding that they've become unvoting K1, B9 and O15 designs. We are now proceeding to paragraph 27, Amendments C1, C2, C3. These are Mr Martin Plíšek's amendments. The position of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u225	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I'm registering your application for check-out, so I'm going to check you all out and ask you to sign up with your cards again. The President of the Party, Mr Kalousek, shall report with priority right before the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u226	Thank you for the floor. I think the House deserves information that the Constitutional Committee has given its consent to these amendments. I respect that it wasn't a guarantee committee, but it's a constitutional law committee and he gave his approval.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u227	Thank you. Since no one else has spoken and opinions have been heard, I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 138. 162 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 77, against 68. This proposal was rejected. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u228	We are now proceeding to amendments F1 and F2 relating to § 38, social enterprise and advantage. Opinion of the guarantee committee not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u229	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 139. 172 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 38, against 115. This proposal was rejected. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u230	In the absence of this proposal, we must now vote on the proposals of J3 and subsequently on the M5 as appropriate. So now we will vote on Amendment J3. Wait a minute. I'm sorry, so I'm sorry. First, we will vote on the J2 proposal, which relates to Section 38, which should be renamed "Beneficiary of suppliers employing disabled persons'. Only concerns the change in the name of the paragraph.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u231	For the record, we are therefore voting on Amendment J2. I'll ask for opinions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u232	So sorry, I take it back. I've got it all mixed up here, but you got it right in the background. Unacceptance of F1 and F2 has become an unvoteable J2 proposal because it is duplicated with design F1. Then we will vote on the J3 proposal. J3 also concerns Section 38, an advantage with some tightening up. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee recommending it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u233	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 140. 173 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 73, against 76. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been rejected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u234	We must continue the procedure with this. By not adopting the J3 proposal, we should vote on the M5. Opinion disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u235	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I will begin the vote and ask who is in favour of the motion, as it was submitted, to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 141. 173 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 41, against 116. This proposal was rejected. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u236	We should now vote on the O3 proposal. O3 also applies to Section 38, where the words "or in the invitation to tender in a simplified sub-limit procedure' are inserted after the words "the award procedure'. Opinion in favour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u237	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 142. 173 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 132, against 32. This proposal was adopted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u238	We will now vote simultaneously on the D1 and D2 proposals, which also concern Section 38, but reduce the share of the affected in the workshops from 50 to 30 %. Opinion not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u239	Madam Secretary? [[It's a major disagreement.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 143. 173 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 18, against 143. This proposal was rejected. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u240	We will now vote on Amendment D3. This relates to the cancellation of Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 4 in Opinion disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u241	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. I ask who's in favour of the suggestion that he press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 144, 173 Members and Members registered, for proposal 15, against 147. This proposal was rejected. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u242	We will now vote on Amendment D5, which concerns the repeal of Title IV, including Section 186.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u243	Opinion? [[Disagree.]] Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 145, 173 Members and Members registered, for proposal 15, against 144. The motion was denied. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u244	We will now go to point E10, which concerns the choice of an electronic tool. The position of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u245	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 146, 173 Members are registered, for 38, against 124. The motion was denied. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u246	The next point is E10, which concerns the choice of multiple profiles. [[Minister: E11.]] E11. It concerns more profiles of contracting entities. Opinion disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u247	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 147, 173 Members and Members registered, for proposal 34, against 102. This proposal was rejected. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u248	We will now vote on Amendment G, which concerns the principle of three Es.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u249	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 148, 173 Members are registered, for proposal 35, against 127. The motion was denied. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u250	Thank you. We will now vote on point I1. This concerns the control of subcontractors. Opinion not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u251	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 149, 173 Members and Members registered, for proposal 49, against 104. The motion was denied. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u252	We are now going to Amendment I2, which is a bit stricter than the previous one. Opinion not recommended. It also concerns the control of sub-contractors.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u253	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 150, 173 Members and Members registered, for proposal 49, against 109. This proposal was rejected. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u254	We will now vote on the J1 proposal, which concerns the exemption from the library law for the purchase of books, information materials and information media. Opinion recommending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u255	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 151; 172 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 153, against 3. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been adopted. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u256	We will now vote together on proposals M1 and M2 which are duplicated with K2. The time limits for the submission of objections to the tendering procedure shall be that this period should end together with the submission of tenders.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u257	Opinion? [[Recommends.]] Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 152; 172 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 135, against 16. This proposal was adopted. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u258	We will now vote on proposals M3 and M4 concerning the failure of contracting authorities to act. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u259	Madam Secretary? [[It's a major disagreement.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 153; 172 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 49, against 103. This proposal was rejected. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u260	We are now going on a proposal from N1, which concerns prior notification and control of documents in the procurement procedure. The position of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u261	Madam Secretary? [[It's a major disagreement.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 154, 173 Members and Members, for proposal 35, against 120. This proposal was rejected. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u262	We are now going on a proposal from the N2 concerning the binding nature of the competition authority. Opinion not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u263	Madam Secretary? [[It's a major disagreement.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 155, 173 Members and Members registered, for proposal 32, against 121. This proposal was rejected. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u264	We will now vote jointly on the proposals N3 and N4 relating to § 252 concerning the adoption of the decision on the proposal within 60 days and the rejection of the proposal. Opinion not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u265	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 156, 173 Members and Members signed, for proposal 32, against 123, the proposal was rejected. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u266	We will now vote on the N5 proposal, which concerns § 260 para. 2 and adding the words "at least 15 days." Opinion disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u267	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 157, 173 Members and Members, for proposal 51, against 105. The motion was denied. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u268	We will now vote on the N6 proposal, which also concerns proceedings before the UOHS and the issuing of decisions and the familiarisation of the parties to the proceedings with the supporting documents of the decision. Opinion disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u269	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating the vote, asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? Voting with order number 158, 173 Members of Parliament are entered. For proposal 33, against 122. The motion was denied. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u270	We are now going to Amendment O1, which concerns § 278 and the entry into force of § 48. Opinion recommending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u271	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 159, 172 Members are registered. For proposal 138, against 26. This proposal was adopted. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u272	We will also vote on the O2 proposal concerning the replacement of the words 'organizational component' - 'internal organisational unit'. Opinion recommending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u273	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. I ask who's in favour of the suggestion that he press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? The vote with order number 160, 172 Members of Parliament are entered. For proposal 146, against 18. The motion was accepted. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u274	We are now going on a proposal from O4, which only concerns the amendment of the number of paragraphs. Opinion in favour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u275	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. I ask who's in favour of the suggestion that he press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 161, 172 Members of Parliament entered. Proposition 162, against none. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u276	We are now going to Amendment O5, which in Section 46 relates to the impossibility of changing offers. Opinion recommending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u277	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 162. 172 Members and Members are registered. For proposal 137, against 21. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u278	We are now going on a proposal from O6, which relates to the release of paragraphs 104 (1). The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of Annex I to Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/35. Article 4 (1) (a) (c) and 124 Three, and they're supposed to cancel. Opinion not recommended. [[in paragraph]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u279	Madam Secretary? [[It's a major disagreement.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? Voting with order number 163, 172 Members of Parliament are entered. Proposition 26, versus 114. This proposal was rejected. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u280	We are now going to Amendment O10, which concerns Section 63 and the addition of paragraph 2. 5. Opinion not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u281	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. I ask who's in favour of the suggestion that he press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 164 and 172 Members are registered. For design 44, against 115. The motion was denied. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u282	We are now going to point O11, which relates to Section 64 of the letter. (b) and the cancellation of the words "with original performance." Opinion disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u283	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 165, registered 172 Members. Proposition 2, versus 128. The motion was denied. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u284	We are now going to point O12, an amendment, which concerns the repeal of the letter - in Section 83 (1) (c) the letter is to be deleted, and the renumbering of the letters. Dissenting position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u285	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 166, 172 Members are registered. Proposition 27, versus 131. The motion was denied. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u286	We will now go to O13, which concerns § 85 para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Opinion disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u287	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 167, 173 Members are registered. Proposition 2, against 130. The motion was denied. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u288	We will now go to O14, which concerns § 223 para. 1 where "§ 222' is added "and the conditions for the application of the negotiated procedure without publication are not fulfilled'. Unadvisable position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u289	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion as it was submitted, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 168 and 173 Members are registered. Proposition 27, versus 131. This proposal was rejected. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u290	We are now going to Amendment O16 concerning the prohibition of interim measures. Dissenting position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u291	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 169, 173 Members are registered. For none, versus 153. This proposal was rejected. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u292	Now Amendment O18, which concerns § 63, and the correction of a false reference, which is no longer flawed. Dissenting position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u293	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 170, 173 Members are registered. No one for the proposition, versus 128. The motion was denied. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u294	We are now going on the P1 proposal, which concerns the business conditions for construction by decree. Dissenting position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u295	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 171, 173 Members are registered. For proposal 32, against 118. The motion was denied. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u296	We are now going to Amendment P2 - the responsibility of the contracting authority for the correctness of the procurement conditions. Dissenting position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u297	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 172. 173 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 36, against 109. The motion was denied. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u298	We are now going to Amendment P3, which concerns exceptions for lawyers only up to two million. Dissenting position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u299	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 173. 173 Members and Members are registered for proposal 55, against 92. The motion was denied. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u300	We are now going on the P4 proposal, which concerns the formula for determining the lowest bid of an extremely low price. Opinion disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u301	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 174. 173 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 38, against 90. The motion was denied. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u302	We are now going to the amendment under the letter Q, which concerns the case that the contracting authority did not receive the subsidy from which the contract was to be paid. Disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u303	Madam Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 175. 173 Members and Members are registered for proposal 19, against 134. The motion was denied. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u304	We are now going to Amendment R30, which concerns replacing 18 working words with figures 30. Recommendant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u305	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 176. 173 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 164, against 2. The proposal has been approved. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u306	We are now going to Amendment R72 concerning the addition of paragraph 278 (5). Opinion in favour. [[paragraph]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u307	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 177. 173 Members and Members are registered, for draft 157, against none. The proposal has been approved. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u308	We are now going on a proposal from R73 concerning the effectiveness of the law on the seventh day following its publication. Opinion not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u309	Madam Secretary? [[Neutral.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 178. 173 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 1, against 154. The motion was denied. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u310	Now Amendment R80, which concerns the contracting authority not to have to evaluate the excluded participant. Agree, recommendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u311	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 179. 173 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 156, against 5. This proposal has also been agreed with. For the sake of order, I am asking because I think we have gone through all the amendments and voted on them all - is that right, rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u312	That's right. I'm koukat at legislation - it also confirms. So the vote on all amendments is behind us and we can proceed to the vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u313	Thank you. Before we proceed to the vote on the bill as a whole, I am registering two priority rights. So now with priority rights, President Kalousek. Please. [[Unagreeable noise from the benches.]] The other colleagues, I'm going to ask for silence to hear what's being lectured here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u314	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, I'm aware of the time, so I'd probably talk longer. We were gonna take a break. We wanted to discuss more the vote on the amendments, but we do not want to prevent the approval or vote on this proposal, so I will be very brief. I'll be very brief on two points. One. Mr Plíšek asked you today whether you consider it right that the person who manages public money may also ask for the public money for his private interest and for his private profit. You have legitimately responded - especially social democracy and YES - by a legitimately tight majority you have answered that yes, that this is correct. You told the public that someone who manages tens and hundreds of billions of public money can also poke into them for their private interests. He deserves it. I mean, he's working for us, for all of us, for people who wouldn't? It's a signal you gave to the public. We fundamentally disagree with this and it is one of the reasons why we cannot support this bill. Then there's six more reasons. And I really don't want to stall, so I'm gonna say one thing. Based on all professional and non-partisan studies, the petitioner, the Ministry of Regional Development, considered the 30% spread of multi-work as optimal. But assuming you've decided that the owner of Agrofert can go crazy about the public money he manages for his own private interests, that's not enough of that 30%. That's what you said: that's too bad, that Andrej should go crazy with the 50 percent. So you didn't approve the 30 percent of the petitioners that Minister Šlechtová was, and you approved Andrej to go crazy about the 50 percent. And now I could go on. I won't, because all the other arguments would be the same. You're the government of systemic corruption. You are the government of an immoral agreement that socialist programming priorities will be promoted here for Agrofert's racket. And that was reflected in this bill. That is why this TOP 09 bill cannot be supported because it cannot support a system-based and promoted theft!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u315	Thank you. Mr Stanjura has another priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u316	There's quite a lot of paperwork here, I don't know which - perhaps the rapporteur. All right. Quality takes precedence over speed. We're not voting today. I'm gonna ask for a break at the club meeting. I'd do it anyway, even if we were at 11:30, not 13.48. Hundreds of amendments. We need to analyze which items that aren't. I think it's legitimate. Either way, both laws should be discussed by the Senate at one time. Clearly, today, item 164 is not open for discussion. So I'm asking for a 30-minute recess at the club meeting. [[13.50 hours]] But I still want to say a few words. There will certainly be a dispute over the interpretation of the vote and we will say which party was in favour or which party was against. And sometimes the fine finess are not quite clear to the public, where we have 81 votes for this vote, for example, and the Minister of Culture is actually missing from the vote on the proposal of Mr Plíšek. And then the present members of the KDU were all in favour and I thank them. But that's fine finesse, and I just don't believe a second that at that moment, because we voted from 12.30 to 13.45, that was the moment when the Minister of Culture couldn't be in the hall. But he avoided voting, he's logged out, all right. Then we'll have to analyze the stunt well. I could name another one. I take the legitimate view of the Social Democrats, they prefer the peace of mind for work, we don't let the government down, and so on, I understand all this. When we talk about the multi-work thing, it's what you approved, the fifth or the sixth time, it went a lot hard. Yes, you're right, it's in the items. But that's exactly where to cut the price of the item, then pick up the item by 50 percent. Yes, it may not exceed 30% overall, but in that item it will. That's exactly the way, that's exactly the guide. [[unintelligible]] And I remember your posters, your speeches, and I'm really waiting - and I'm telling all those non-profit organizations that care about the Public Procurement Act in order to compare their approach in the last term. If we had designed this, we would have been media-destructed, let alone voted! My colleague Farský said it correctly when he spoke at the third reading in the debate. We designed one company, the end of the contract - you canceled it. We designed the limits for a small order of one million -- you picked that up. Today you've given 50 percent while saying: we're transparent, we're fighting against it. But actions have proven it's completely different. But I said in my first speech that I, in accordance with the Prime Minister, do not consider voting as the most important part of this law on Mr Plíšek's amendment. And since we really need time to analyze what we've been saying in the last 70 minutes and what we haven't, at this point, I'm asking for a recess at our club meeting. Thank you. And I say I would, even if it was 11:30. And it is not my problem or our problem, and I do not blame the rapporteur for the fact that the procedure was actually discussed for half an hour and repaired on the spot. The procedure was extremely complicated, and I believe that, like me, my colleagues have an understanding of the hard work of the rapporteur. Can Mr Chalupa yell at me: What do you need advice for? Well, whether we vote for or against, that's pretty simple. I mean, that's what we're... I know you're clear because you probably haven't read it and you know exactly what amendments have come or not, through the Vice-President. Don't yell at me. Deal with your club. I'm not telling you what your club is supposed to discuss, what it's supposed to say. Let us know what we want to talk about and what we don't want to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-001-163.u317	Thank you. Before I call a break, I'll read two more apologies. Today Minister Marian Jurečka apologizes at 13:00 and today from 13:15 the Minister of the Interior apologizes. There was a request for a break. At the moment that I would now give the floor to anyone with priority rights, I assume that the endless cycle of preferential rights will be torn down. I'll do as I customary, which means I'm gonna put out a break for 30 minutes now. This means that the break will exceed 14 o'clock, which is the time that we have negotiated for today's meeting day. That means I'm interrupting today's meeting until 2:00 p.m. next week. Thank you all and have a nice weekend.
