ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u1	11. Government bill amending Act No. 159/2006 Sb., on conflict of interest, as amended, and other related laws /house print 564/ - second reading On behalf of the Government, Minister Jiří Dienstbier shall state the proposal. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u2	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, the bill tabled is based on several fundamental points. Firstly, it introduces a central administration in the area of conflict of interest, which seems to be irrelevant, but it is far from so, because in the past there was very much lack of any management, particularly methodological management in this area, but also control of compliance with the rules, and in that area there was really no overview. Another principle on which it is based is that it introduces one central register in which all the notices submitted under the law are inserted, so they focus only on the site instead of several thousand registration points, to which the relevant public officials have so far submitted and still present the notification. The next item is the introduction of the so-called the entry notification of assets to establish a benchmark from which it can be assumed that a public official in the public interest is acting, how his assets develop following the function performed. In the same way, sanctions are changed in the sense that they are more distinguished by the seriousness of the infringement and their lower limits are introduced. So much for the government bill. I would still try to respond briefly to the committee discussions. A number of proposals have been supported in the committees, which also go against these basic principles that I have set out. From the logic of the matter, I find them problematic and I cannot support them because they actually undermine the fundamental principles. I would mention, for example, a special regime for judges who have been added to the public office circle, where I can imagine that the circle can be extended this way, but I see no reason to introduce any other public notice mechanism. It's really interfering with one of those basic principles. I'm not going to be going over the individual proposals here right now, or I'm going to comment on the ongoing debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the constitutionally legal committee as a guarantee committee, the press was also assigned to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, as well as to the mandate and immune committee. The Committee's resolution was delivered to you as House prints from 564/1 to 564/9. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Constitutional Committee, Mr Radek Vondráček, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u4	Mr President, if I may, the rapporteur is Mr Vozka, who is excused.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u5	Yes, but you can fill in for him. This shall not even be put to the vote at second reading. So please do so, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u6	Excellent. I'm here. Dear colleagues, the Constitutional Legal Committee addressed this press at its meeting on 30 March 2016 when, following the comments of the Minister for Human Rights, Equal Opportunities and Legislation, Minister Jiří Dienstbier, Mr Ing's report. Vlastimil Vozka and after the debate decided as follows: I. It recommends that the Chamber of Deputies approve the proposal. II. It recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to adopt amendments and additions to this bill, as set out in the written draft of this resolution, which are broken down into a total of 40 amendments. In order not to have to read them, I refer to this written copy, which I'm sure you have at your disposal. III. It shall instruct the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament. IV. It hereby authorises the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the results of the examination of this draft law at the meeting on the Constitutional Legal Committee. V. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments. That's all. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee or the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Mr. Klán. Please, the Member is obviously a rapporteur, not a rapporteur. [[Fun.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, let me introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development at its 36th meeting following the reasoning of Jiří Dienstbier, Minister for Human Rights, Equal Opportunities and Legislation, following the report by Ms . Věra Kovářová and after the debate adopted a resolution interrupting the discussion of the House press 564.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u9	Thank you to the rapporteur. I now ask the rapporteur of Mr Martin Plíšek's mandate and immunity committee to inform us also of the discussion of the committee proposal and to justify the amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u10	Mr President, my dear colleagues, my fellow Members, the mandate and immune committee has dealt with this press repeatedly and adopted at its 36th meeting on 30 March 2016 the resolution that, following the justification of the proposal and the report, the mandate and immune committee recommends the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament to give its consent to the Government's draft law amending the Act on Conflict of Interests, the House's press 564, with the approved amendments and supplements that are presented in the relevant Houses of the Press, so that I do not read them in detail, just referring to them. Secondly, the mandate and immunity committee instructs the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament, and thirdly empowers the Committee rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the resolution. So many resolutions of the mandate and immunity committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u11	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek signed up first with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u12	Good afternoon, colleagues. Given how much media attention is given to this law, there's not much of us here. But that's okay. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to ask all my colleagues, whom I will eventually discuss, not to take this personally. I was only pumping in my performance from publicly available sources, so please accept this request from me. However, some are not here or in the room, they may not even hear it. The conflict of interest law applies, if I'm not mistaken, since 2006. Our coalition government has agreed that it is necessary to change this law after all these years. Minister Dienstbier has already spoken of this. To clarify this law, especially so that politicians admit their assets transparently before entering politics, and not as it is now, after a year's work. This law is one of the main priorities of our government, and it brings about transparency of the property returns of politicians and other public officials who will be served electronically, it will be available to citizens at a centrally managed address before the entry of politics into office, including sanctions for violating this law. I just want to remind you that our Members, I am referring to the members of the YES movement, have, after their election, published their assets without any law encouraging them to do so. From our point of view, the law, as the government has put it, is a good law. However, some amendments have been tabled by both opposition and coalition MEPs, here in the rare agreement of colleagues Plíšek and Chvojka, and these amendments have one common denominator, preventing participation in public life and in politics by people who have achieved something, have built successful companies that employ people and pay taxes. These proposals, which say that a member of the government must not own a company, virtually. share in the company, giving a clear signal to our public. They say that traditional political parties simply do not want successful entrepreneurs in politics. These parties clearly say: Do you want to go into politics? Get rid of the company. Sell it, transfer it to your wife, to your children, then you can become Minister. I would like to ask my colleagues from ODS and TOP 09, through Mr President, why they did not solve this problem when they were in the government for two parliamentary periods. Why didn't they deal with ministers, entrepreneurs in their governments who, not all of them, turned some of them into family members, friends and friends? I'm just gonna give you a few names to refresh your memory. For example, Mr. Bárta or Mr. Hřebíček. But also Mr. Former Chairman of TOP 09 Schwarzenberg. Mr. Kuba, Mr. Drobil and many other entrepreneurs. At the time, no one cared that the companies of some - some of them - and please do not take this personally - had miraculously increased their revenues and profits after joining politics. At the time, it wasn't dealt with, and the law wasn't broken. [[17.50 hours]] For illustration, my fellow Members, I will give an example of the life that these amendments to colleagues Plíšek and Chvojka will lead to or basically lead to... I'm sorry, I've got a lot of paperwork here... You may know that in 1992 the company was established, I feel that it was in Opava, the company ESKON, first as a limited liability company and in 1996 it turned into a joint-stock company and one of our colleagues became its director and owner. Information on management and financial flows was published by this company only in 1996. Since then, information in the Commercial Register has not been available until 2011, when the court called on the company to do so. The reports are now being added. In 2000, this company obtained a contract from the Opava City Council, which lasted at least until 2011. In 2002, our colleague is elected mayor and officially leaves the company. Until 2007, however, the then mayor holds a third share of this company and participates in general meetings, etc. The business partners of this company were e.g. ČEZ, DALKIA, OKD, Karlovarská Becherovka, PARAMO, insurance company, AERO Vodochody, Ospap - these are all private companies, but also the City of Opava, Ministry of Defence, DIAMO, SŽDC, Transport Enterprise of Ostrava, Chodov, Klatovy, Jičín, Jihlava, Vyškov and many others. I have a lot here from 2006, 2007, 2008 of current articles from the newspaper. Personally, I don't think this is the right way to go. I'm not criticizing it. I am merely stating this as the fact that, of course, these specific proposals can be circumvented by this way. When I return to the present and not to mention that my colleague Chvojka's amendment has not been discussed with coalition partners, and when I note that it is directed directly against Andrej Babiš, it is lex Babiš, so I believe that it is - or was, or is, on the verge of constitutionality, because, according to Article 11 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, everyone has the right to own property. The property rights of all owners have the same legal content and protection. Some may argue that the Constitution also says that expropriation or forced restriction of ownership is possible in the public interest, on the basis of law and compensation. Citizens have the right to participate in the administration of public affairs directly or by the free choice of their representatives. Citizens have access to elected and other public posts on equal terms. Article 3 provides that no one may be discriminated against because of the exercise of one of these rights. Both Mr Chvojka and Mr Plíšek's proposals are in direct conflict with these principles when a person who owns a certain property is discriminated against by restrictions on the right to hold the public office of a member of the government or, on the contrary, the person holding that office is denied to own the property in the form of a business share. It is not possible to not notice the total inconclusiveness and inadequacy of the proposal. For one thing, in the general view of the matter, it is unclear why it was selectively chosen property consisting of a share and not other types of property, e.g. Entrepreneur's plant - natural persons, why 40 per cent of the share has been established and why this restriction is to apply to members of the government and not other public officials. It is evident that ownership of 40% and a larger share in any commercial corporation has a priori effect on the performance of a member of the government, but this is an extreme flat-rateisation of various situations which must necessarily lead to the establishment of such limits of rights that are not appropriate to the public interest and discriminate against some individuals. This is also confirmed by the decision-making practice of the Constitutional Court, according to which the protection of ownership and respect for it, regardless of the nature and nature of the entity to which the property is established, is one of the fundamental postulates or, say, the characteristics of the democratic and the rule of law. The constitutional limitation of ownership is only possible in the public interest on the basis of law and compensation, the extent and scope of the restriction being proportional to the objective pursued by the restriction and the means by which the restriction is achieved. Where one of these conditions of forced restriction of ownership is absent, e.g. The law does not provide compensation for its limitation, it is a non-constitutional breach of ownership. In such cases, the ownership right may be limited in a constitutional manner only with the consent of the owner. Therefore, if there is a public law institute restricting ownership without linking the provision of compensation to this restriction, the consent expressed by the owner is a necessary condition of its constitutional conformity. The current concept of protection of property rights according to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights is based on the fact that, although Protocol No. The Convention does not contain a definition of the content of ownership, guarantees each person the right to own property and confers the same legal content and protection on all participants, but at the same time stresses that the right to property is not absolutely unlimited. On the contrary, it admits the restriction of ownership by law for the protection of the rights of others and the protection of public interest, which is the protection of human health, nature and the environment. Having regard to the obligation to preserve the substance and the meaning of the right of ownership, Article 4 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 4 of the Charter, the right to property must not be so restricted to a greater than reasonable extent and only if necessary. It should always be assessed whether the restriction on the use of property rights pursues a legitimate objective, whether it complies with national law and whether it is proportionate to the objective pursued. In this context, I ask myself, if we want to discriminate against a member of the government, what is the difference between the Minister and the Governor, the Member, the senator, the mayor, the mayor and other relaxed policies. I say for myself, none. Each of them, if he owns a company or a share, if he wants to, he will abuse his functions for the benefit of his company - and unfortunately we have many cases from the past. That is why I have not tabled this amendment, which I have mentioned, because restricting ownership seems absurd to anyone, whether it be a member of the government, a Member, a senator or a mayor. At the end of my speech, let us see what restrictions are for members of the government in other European countries. I have two materials at my disposal. One of them is a material which has been processed by the Parliamentary Institute, which is called the restriction of government members to carry out certain activities during the period of the government's function and the declaration of government members preventing conflicts of interest from April 2015. And then I have another material processed from external sources that essentially describes the same thing, but in a smaller number of states. There are two systems in the world to prevent conflicts of interest in executives. The first is based on transparency and disclosure of public actors' assets. It consists in a detailed and published register of assets of donations and activities of public officials. This system has, for example, the United Kingdom and was founded primarily for Members. It has applied and applies to members of the government, because in Britain they are always members of parliament. [[18.00 hours]] The second system consists of a ban on the activities of a member of the government and a ban on the acceptance of any donations. This system is applied, for example, in the United States of America. Many European countries apply for members of the government and other executives a combination of both systems, both the declaration of assets and some bans on activities and the acceptance of donations. The first instrument to regulate the conflict of interests of members of the Government is the declaration of assets, assets, activities, income and gifts and their changes. We can find the beginning of legislation on making statements that should prevent conflicts of interest in most European countries at the turn of the 1980s and 1990s. In some states, declarations of property or gifts are modified only for Members of Parliament because they were those who are not under government control and their behaviour could not be regulated by outside-law internal government instruments. In some states, the obligation to submit a statement also applied by law to the president of the state, members of the government and other high state officials. In some countries, the group of persons obliged to make a declaration in order to avoid conflicts of interest is extended to factors other than the heads of central authorities, in particular in emerging adjustments to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, such as regional, municipal and, where appropriate, representatives. The GRECO assessment report, from which the last one was adopted in 2010, also notes that the level of abuse of public functions in individual states is not directly linked to the content and scope of the legislation. Declarations must be made in writing in most states at the beginning of their term of office. Often an obligation to renew a declaration during the performance of the function is laid down on a regular or substantial basis. In the legislation, there is no exception to the obligation to re-establish a declaration after the end of the term of office. There is a register of declarations in almost all countries where the declaration is formalised. That's where we're headed. Declarations are made by members of the Government to various persons and institutions, such as the President of the House, certainly a parliamentary committee, a specialised institution, a Prime Minister and so on. I'm not gonna read the whole thing. The material is very extensive. I would merely focus on how the activities of a member of the government are limited in relation to his ability to own property. As far as Great Britain is concerned, there is no explicit ban on the co-operation of the Minister's office in a government owned by a business share. The conflict of interest of ministers is addressed by the so-called Ministerial Code, which, in paragraph 7, governs the relationship between the performance of the Minister's office in the Government and his private interests, but only in a very general manner. In the UK, it's more about morality than about the law or something written on paper. As far as France is concerned, Law No 2013-907 of 11 regulates this issue in the French legal order. 11. 2013. However, even in this case, the provision cited does not address the direct question of the incompatibility of the Minister's duties and ownership of the shares in the company. The subject matter of the adjustment is a general conflict of interest defined as a situation which creates an obstacle between the public interest and public or private interests which could affect the independent, impartial and objective performance of the public function. Each member of the government must draw up a complete, accurate and true statement of his property and financial situation and hand it over to the President. A member of the government who believes that he is in conflict of interest is obliged to communicate this in writing to the Prime Minister, who decides on an appropriate solution to a specific conflict. This is, for example, the publication of the Minister's personal interests, the Minister's delay in discussing and deciding the matter concerning the particular interest and, in the extreme case, the appeal of the Minister. Rakousko. Austria has been mentioned here several times and it is true that Austria, together with Poland, belongs to two countries in Europe, where this problem is addressed more specifically. In Austria, the Federal Law on conflicts of interest in the highest authorities and other public authorities of 1983 regulates the issue. The general prohibition of the co-operation of a member of the Federal Government with ownership of a share in a commercial corporation does not provide for this law. However, in order not to read the whole thing, it is true that in Austria, if a member of the government owns more than 25 percent of the company, this company cannot apply for public contracts. This is how Austria deals with the situation. As far as Germany is concerned, the German law does not explicitly prohibit the continuity of the functions of a member of the Government and the ownership of shares of a trading company. However, there is a code of ethics, a code of conduct of members of the German Federal Assembly, which obliges the members of the Assembly to inform the President of the Assembly of all their interests and activities in private companies, if such an interest can be regarded as significant in view of the management of such a company. As far as Italy is concerned, the conflict of interest is governed by Law 215 of 20. 7. 2004. According to him, membership of the government does not, in itself, restrict the ownership rights of persons to shares in private companies. However, government members cannot participate in a legislative process if they are in conflict of interest. It is a conflict of interest, inter alia, where a member of the government performs an office or other function other than that of a government or other professional or self-employed activity, if these are in any relation to the performance of the duties of a member of the government. As far as Belgium is concerned, the Belgian legal system also does not know the standard for prohibiting members of the government from owning a holding in a trading company. However, once again, it is necessary to draw attention to certain restrictions relating to this issue. Ministers, for example, may not state their role as Minister in company documents and publications. For a period of five years after the expiry of the term of office, the former Minister may not become a member of the management of a company which, during its term of office, has been granted a concession authorisation by the Government and the Minister may not participate in the award or conclusion of a contract with a company in which he has a holding. As regards the Netherlands, as in all the cases mentioned, it is not expressly prohibited by law to co-ownership in a private company and to perform the duties of a member of the government. Specific rules for members of the government are laid down in the Code of Ethics, which requires these to give up secondary functions and thus avoid a clear conflict of interest. The official government document obliges ministers to resign from all their other functions in addition to the government's function, for reasons of preventing allegations from biased decision-making. As far as Sweden is concerned, Swedish legislation does not know the general prohibition on the continuance of government membership and ownership of the share of a business company. However, the Prime Minister and the Ministers are obliged, as in the above cases, to make a declaration of their property, including the ownership of their shares and any changes thereto. [[The speaker shut up and drinks.]] I'm sorry. Norway. It is no exception when Norwegian law does not prohibit ministers from owning shares. I'm gonna cut this short. I'm sorry about the length. Switzerland. Nor does the Swiss rule of law force ministers, members of the Federal Council, to dispose of and priori the shares they hold. However, with regard to possible conflicts of interest, there are again several exceptions that govern the law on the organisation of government and state administration. The members of the Federal Council must therefore exclude themselves from discussing and deciding certain matters if they have a personal relationship with them. So much for the first material. [[18.10 hours]] As far as the Parliamentary Institute material is concerned, I have basically said most of the states. Estonia is still here - it is not forbidden to own property. Finland - there is no prohibition on owning property. France, I told Italy. Canada, it's far away. Lithuania - there is no prohibition on owning property. Hungary - there is no prohibition on owning property. Poland. Poland is one of the states where it is forbidden to own property for members of the government. Members of the Government and other public officials at national regional level shall be obliged to submit a summary notice of assets at the beginning and end of their duties. The Central Anti-Corruption Office is responsible for verifying these notifications. On the basis of the April 2014 Ombudsman's proposal, it is now planned to make the whole system more effective and adopt an amendment. Members of the Government must report all activities and any income, whether obtained in a private or public capacity, or employment or trade. They must state gifts whose value... No business activities... The ban on business activities is regulated by the Act on the restriction of economic activity by persons performing public functions, so-called Anti-corruption law, for a number of executive functions of central regional and local authorities in Poland. Article 4 of the Act provides that it is prohibited to be members of the Boards of Directors, Supervisory Boards, to have employment or other employment in commercial companies, to be members of the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board of the Cooperatives, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Foundation which carries out economic activities, to own more than 10% of the share of shares or to control more than 10% of the share capital in each of these companies, to do business on its own account or, together with others, to have these activities managed or to be a manager or manager of such activities. And the other states still. Slovakia - it is not forbidden to own. I told the United Kingdom. I told Germany. Spain - it is not forbidden to own. I told Sweden. So, basically, as far as some recapitulation is concerned, we can say that from the available sources it is known that the limitation of a member of the government's capacity to own property is in Poland and Austria. If a member of the government owns more than 25 percent, they can't participate in these state-owned businesses. So that's just very briefly on my part. Some comment on the law. In conclusion, I repeat, the law, as it left the government, is good. I think it needs to be specified as proposed by the government. Amendments by colleagues The lungs and the Chvojka, in my opinion, are going or are in conflict, or may be in conflict with the Constitution and with the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. But, of course, that's for a longer debate. I apologize for the longer time I've quoted my colleagues here. However, I only spoke from available sources. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u13	I thank Prime Minister Faltýnek. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mr Martin Plíšek. Sorry, with priority rights... You're both rapporteurs, so make a deal if possible. [[The rapporteurs are arguing about which one to perform.]] Yes, my colleague Vondráček is a gentleman. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u14	Nice evening now, dear colleagues. I did not make a point of fact, but let me begin by responding to some of President Faltýnek's comments. In particular, it is necessary to refer Article 70 to the Institute of the Czech Republic, where it is said that a member of the Government must not carry out activities whose nature contradicts the performance of his duties. Details are laid down in the law. President Faltýnek here referred to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Property Protection, etc. However, our Constitution refers directly to members of the government, in contrast to other public officials, whether on the outskirts or on the municipalities. It mentions members of the government as those who are to be determined by activities whose performance and nature contradicts the performance of his duties, and that is precisely in terms of conflict of interests the relationship of a member of the minister's government to his business, to his companies. By the way, President Faltýnek here says that my proposals or my colleague Chvojka prevent entrepreneurs, successful entrepreneurs, from entering politics. So I ask you, President Faltýnek, through Mr President: do you mind that businessmen, self-employed people, can no longer act as a member of the government? And you don't find it strange and asymmetrical that a businessman can't be a member of the government as a self-employed and controlling person in a large corporation, in a large legal person, an entrepreneur, a company that can give guidance to management e.g. which public contracts are to participate in, or what state subsidy is to be applied for, is this legally possible? You really don't see the potential conflict of private and public interest? So I also want to add that, as I mentioned at the Constitution, there are more stringent conditions, and it is so logical for the functions to be appointed than for the functions that arise by choice. [[unintelligible]] There's also a lot of studies I don't want to read here, and I don't want to delay it. But to think about it, it is logical that there are stricter conditions for the performance of appointed functions than those which arise directly from the will of voters in the elections. By the way, the fact that my proposals for my or my colleague Chvojka in terms of controlling persons are not unconstitutional, so there are legal analyses for this, for example, by Professor Kysela and for example. Professor Gerloch, former dean of the Prague Law Faculty, I now suspect the Rector. So this is also captured in their opinions in the sense that we do not restrict ownership, we merely say that some of the activities that a member of the government does, and that means a controlling person who owns 40 percent or more, so a member of the government has to choose whether to be a controlling person in a company or a member of the government. You mentioned an analysis from these countries. I had it made, too. And I have to add that not only Poland, where there is even a ten percent ban on government activity, that is, when a member of the government owns ten percent or more, it has to act somehow and cannot be in the government, so also the favourite Croatia of the Minister of Finance, there it is even set to five percent. So in Croatia, Mr. Finance Minister Andrej Babiš couldn't be in the government unless he reduced his share of the company to five percent or less. By the way, Italy reached a stricter adjustment after being repeatedly Prime Minister of Silvio Berlusconi. Austria has been mentioned here. In Lithuania, too, there are strict conditions. That means the modifications are very different. They come from some historical experience. In general, in established democracies, rather ethical codes and declarations are sufficient that the member of the government concerned will not be in conflict of interest and will voluntarily give up certain activities that are in conflict of interest. And in post-communist countries, of course, where they had experience with oligarchs or with someone who very much accumulated economic, media and political power, there they felt needed to adjust this specifically and precisely in the law. By the way, speaking of Poland and Croatia, this is a clear example that the proposals I have put forward are milder and certainly not the strictest on the European scale. [[18.20 hours]] So much in a very brief response, because, of course, legal arguments could be raised here about unconstitutionality. If this law and these amendments are approved, there is nothing to prevent the ANO movement from turning to the Constitutional Court to assess it - because the only one can assess whether an approved law is unconstitutional or not, so as to assess it. Since I do not want to delay this debate, I will just mention and justify the amendments to which I will then sign up in a detailed debate. I, too, have re-entered the system on the basis of the debates and negotiations of the Constitutional Legal Committee, which actually says that a member of the government must not be a controlling legal entity, that is to say, control and own 40 or more percent of the company, with the proposal being, let's say, in its general position, and I don't care what else that member of the government may have to do, whether or not to transfer the share, give it up and so on. That's really up to him, and I don't want to interfere. I've got it in general like this. But, as I mentioned a while ago, it is not right for the Minister to sign the administrative decision for the state and the Czech Republic at 8.05 and to instruct management of his company to participate in the public procurement and to ask for any state subsidy or investment incentive. I really consider this an unacceptable and colossal conflict of interest between private and public. The second amendment I want to sign up to means - because, as you know, the constitutional committee supported my proposal so that companies, which are at least 25% owned by a member of the government, would not be able to participate in public procurement. I really consider it unacceptable if a member of the government has, and no doubt has, exclusive information, so that on the one hand, he decides on billions of spending from the state budget and, on the other hand, that his firms be beneficiaries of public procurement money. Therefore, I propose a new amendment, a similar provision, so that those firms, which are at least 25% owned by a member of the government, cannot receive non-interest subsidies and investment incentives, because that is the same principle. By the way, when it comes to public procurement, it is a principle that applies in Austria. I do not see the reason if this amendment applies in Austria, why it could not also apply in the Czech Republic. And as far as the subsidies and investment incentives are concerned, it is clear that if an official assesses them from the point of view of the fact that the company is owned by a member of the government, it can be influenced in this, and the principle that applies also to public procurement applies there. So much for me, I guess. Then, in a detailed debate, I will sign up for these two amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u15	I thank the rapporteur, Plíšek. Now the rapporteur, Mr Radek Vondráček. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u16	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I was looking forward to finally having the priority right once, but the second place is nice and I got here relatively early. I had two previous speakers. First, I would have chosen the same procedure as my colleague Plíšek, and I would have responded briefly to his words, which were said a moment ago. I regret that he uses some sentences as a lawyer when he mentions and talks about activities with reference to the Constitution, since simple ownership is not an activity. We all know that the chair of the ANO movement Andrej Babiš does not exercise any active function in any statutory body, has only bare ownership. This is not an activity and should not be confused. Then Croatia was mentioned here. In Croatia there is such a strict ban, however, I may still get to it in the rest of my contribution, but in Croatia there are conditions created for these institutes. They have a legal framework for how such a person should proceed. As long as the person becomes a member of the government or prime minister, according to the special legislation, he can entrust his property to the administration of the audited entity, usually by law firms, not by lobbying for law firms, but in short and well they have such competence there, and after the term of office, he continuously regains his property and can continue. We lack this institute, and if we were to adopt this legislation, it would be a slap in the water. As far as Austria is concerned, a moment ago I received a message that in Austria they banned phone calls from both the car and handsfree, so I don't think we need to take an example in everything from Austria either. But now back to what's going on here. I would like to get the debate back to the dorms where it was, although, of course, I did not coordinate the contribution with our club president, and he used part of the arguments I wanted to use earlier. I'm not gonna say it again if I skip something here. I would return this to the fact that today is the subject of press hearing 564, which is a government bill amending Act No. 159/2006 Sb., on conflict of interest, i.e. an amendment to the Act, which the ANO 2011 movement has long supported and is among the priorities. It is intended to address the current shortcomings of the law, particularly some fragmentation of existing legislation, which undermines the principle of public control. So many quotes from the explanatory statement. At this particular moment, we are digging for the same thing, Minister. We have the same interest in discussing the essentials. The law addresses the unification of registration bodies, the obligation to report assets at the beginning of the function, tightening up and extending the prohibition of competition pursuant to Section 6, mainly the creation of an adequate system of sanctions, so that the whole system is operational. And now - what happened. All of a sudden, we have Lex Babiš. And the public, virtually. the media is not interested in anything else in this context. The good and useful is fading away. I had trouble not laughing loudly on the radio in the morning. I had a radio discussion with my colleague Chvojka and the presenter or the editor stated: "Mr Chvojka, you are the author of the Lex Babiš bill." It's not a government bill on conflict of interest anymore, it's just Lex Babiš and the plaintiff is Mr Chvojka. I managed not to laugh, and I will continue with a serious tone. You know, I would like to bring you closer to the debate that was going on in our constitutional law committee, because any other time than now at this second reading, I would like to return to this debate and tell you what's going on here. Obviously the biggest problem that we have had all along those of us who disagree with the proposal, and I should distinguish, the proposals are two, and we have increased it, is the very genetic origin of the whole proposal. Originally we had the opposition proposal of Mr Plíšek, a pure opposition proposal with everything, which then, improved and improved, was adopted and proposed by Mr Chvojka on the part of the coalition. I recall a statement from my precious colleague Komárek, who asked if his colleague really meant it. That this is Mr Kalousek's materialized dream, however submitted by a member of the ČSSD. There was talk that if we considered the coalition as a marriage, the ČSSD was unfaithful to the TOP 09 for the first time, and even a child came out of this union, and that is this amendment. That was a start. And that's how constructively we haven't talked in a long time on the Constitutional Legal Committee. I remind you that it was in March, and it was at a time when we had no idea what would happen in connection with the police's reorganisation, when we once again felt a clear connection between some parties, whether coalition or opposition. Unfortunately, here we have a continuation of the constant conflict no longer between the right and the left, but only the conflict of all the existing parties against the person of Andrej Babiš. [[18.30 hours]] About the proposal itself, so I can stay a little bit of a thing. Everyone who knows, everyone who voted, everyone who voted for the YES movement, I think everyone in this republic knows that Andrej Babiš is the owner of the Agrofert Group. Yet, or because of that, I am unable to judge, the YES movement has received a certain number of votes. It was the will of the voters. At the time of this House and when we were discussing the government, when the coalition treaty was signed, I did not catch a single sentence from the Prime Minister that this circumstance would prevent him from signing the coalition treaty, and thanks to this coalition treaty, he became Prime Minister of this country. It didn't matter at the time. It bothers us now. It bothers me, for one person, that we will deform the rule of law of this country and adopt laws that are always wrong when they are personalized. And now I really don't just think about this particular example. We were here this morning discussing the authority, the ombudsman's authority, and even in this case, this law has sometimes been personalized against the person of the current ombudsman. And I say for myself, it wasn't good either, even though I was standing in another camp. The very text of the law. Mr Faltýnek has already mentioned an article. 11 Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. However, I would like to draw your attention to the article. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ 4, which is clear that citizens have access to elected and other functions on equal terms. That means not only the elected, but also the appointed. And you here in this amendment actually prevent certain parts of the population from acting freely, without giving up part of their property. The thought isn't all bad at heart. We can talk about her academically here, but the truth is, the rule of law doesn't have an answer for those people, what happens when they want to perform that function. Do they really have to give up their property, which they built for 20, 30 years? They're gonna transfer him to white horses? They're gonna turn him into wives? It's been here before, isn't it? Isn't it a hundred times better when this person is in permanent danger of conflict of interest, so he is extremely careful and under extraordinary public supervision and is going into this openly and transparently? Can we really not talk about the name of Babiš for a second and talk about someone else? Well, I'm not the one talking about it. Take a hypothetical example of a doctor who will build a private clinic, an excellent prosperous private clinic. He gets to a certain age when he wants to do something for the public. He's offered a health minister's chair. The guy's an ideal manager, he's a perfect master of the field. He wants to do the job. What's he supposed to do at that point? I'm asking my colleagues who suggested it, how it should be done. Is he supposed to sell his property? Is he supposed to turn it into someone else's eye? [[He can transfer him to his wife.]] Yes, to turn to wife. If there really was a legal instrument, if there was a legal instrument in our legal order, that could put it in the administration for some time, he wouldn't have to worry about it. We can talk about this proposal. But this proposal is originally purely opposition, and I cannot say half a word about it, but it is ill-conceived, it is not enshrined in our legal order, and such fundamental proposals that have constitutional connections should, and I insist, be government proposals and at least there should be a debate in the Government Legislative Council, at least there should be a RIA in terms of legal and economic implications for such a situation. I'm saying, let's not talk about this person, I'm not going to name that name anymore, let's talk about the situation of me in particular. I'm an attorney, I have my law firm, she has some employees, I have my clientele. I can start a limited liability company - but beware that only a lawyer can be a partner in a limited liability company. And I'm gonna get an offer to be Minister of Moravia and Silesia, for instance. I'd take that. That would be an excellent function. What do we do now? I don't have a lawyer's wife, so I can't even sell it to the wife. So the only way I'm gonna find another willing lawyer who I'm gonna trust is to trust him with my life's work. That's just wrong, folks. Try to think about it. I know it doesn't always work 100% in these areas, it rarely works, but I refer to common sense in this Chamber of Deputies. Try to think about where we're getting to. In the next part of the contribution, I will limit myself because the international comparison by Mr.Faltýnek was largely exhausted. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u17	I thank my colleague Vondráček. With a factual remark, Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u18	Well, thank you for your word. I will only respond very briefly to some of the words of my pathetic speaker. I would like to say that in the part where he mentioned that the people elected Minister Babiš, whom he spoke most about, I use the word only because he said it about 50 times, so they elected him as a Member, not a Minister of Finance. The Treasury Secretary made him into this House. We see what a conflict of interest is, for example. on Čepro, where he increased the share of supplies of biofuels to companies from the Andrej Babiš Group to tens of percent. Please note that Čepro is owned directly by Minister Andrej Babiš. I mean, this law is clearly not purposeful. This isn't the law for Andrej Babiš. This was appointed here, and they were appointed by a colleague of Faltýnek, the previous ministers - this law will, of course, apply to them and any future who will come. I think my colleague Vondráček is going to take unnecessary personalities on Andrej Babiš. And, of course, those transfers to so many times here, smilingly served by President Faltýnek and the rapporteur Vondráček, concerning transfers to children and wives, so I have recently heard a very emotional speech from their President Mr Andrej Babiš, explaining the case of the Chapi Nest, how it is owned by his children and how he tried to protect them etc. So I don't think I would have used this example in connection with Andrej Babiš, because he is a shining example of how to do some kind of grant fraud, so as to convert property into children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u19	I thank Mr Kučer. Mr Černoch, with a point of fact, followed by Mr Chalupa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u20	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to ask my colleague, through you, Vondráček. How can you say that everyone is against Mr. Babiš, all the parties in this House are against Mr. Babiš? That's not true. From our point of view, it's either a constructive bill, or it's a non-constructive bill. That's how we judge it. Not according to whether it's against Mr. Babiš or whether it's against someone else. I think personalizing any law is wrong. That's our opinion and our point of view. So to say that all sides are against Mr. Babiš, he's only creating an impression that should give him compassion, and I don't think that's appropriate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u21	Thank you. Mr Chalupa and his point of order, followed by Mr Vondráček with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u22	Thank you for the floor. As part of the discussion, my fellow Members, I would like - I am not a lawyer, I will just say a few of my observations, which I think the debate should also be. First of all, if we're telling the citizens that whoever's sitting in the seat of a member of the government can somehow manipulate subsidies or competitions or something else, it doesn't matter if the person who's sitting there owns billions worth of property or has nothing. Because either this state works and law works and these things can't be done, and then it doesn't matter if the person is rich or not, or it just doesn't work legally, and then the problem is somewhere else. First of all. [[18.40 hours]] Secondly, I have written an annual political party report from the Internet. And there are political parties with pretty high assets. They lease it, somehow using this property to finance their own political activities and to get their people into positions of members of the government. Isn't that the same problem? Because we're talking about a physical person who has some property, but we can also talk about an entity, possibly a political party that also has property. I'm not a lawyer, I'm just making observations, the way people might see it outside the windows. The third thing is that we are really going to liquidate the capable people who have succeeded in some way in life, and now I don't want to personally identify those who have experience, have done something, and we're going to exclude them from a political struggle, because those people, when they get there, and now I'm saying, I don't want to personalize it, so for that state, they definitely have value in getting into positions where they're going to influence the functioning of that state. Thank you. I'm saying it's for discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u23	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Radek Vondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u24	There were two contributions that turned to me, I feel like I'm being called up, I respond in a factual way. If you, Mr Kučera, Mr Černoch through the equally esteemed President, felt that I was trying to identify myself here, I cannot formulate my thoughts. I'm gonna say the opposite. Let's not treat ourselves and try to have fun in general. I see it as a fundamental conflict here, whether we want professional politicians here who have achieved nothing in private life, policies from pacifiers, or we allow people with proven results to enter public life at the level of a member of the government. So I'm talking about the principle. And if we agree on this principle, then I want an answer, and I want a change in the legal order so that these people do not have to humiliately transfer their property to white horses and wives so that they do not have to sell them and point them somewhere, but so that they can confide them to someone and return to them after the end of their duties. I have asked everyone here and asked us to take reasonable laws with the use of rata and common sense and to vote responsibly. And especially with this law, it really will depend on you, on you, and especially here left to you. [[points to the Members of the Parties]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u25	There. Amen. Mr Roman Sklenák, then Minister Brabec with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u26	Thank you for the floor. So I notice that colleagues here from the ANO movement always have a few sentences that they keep repeating on every possible occasion, and repeat them for so long that basically we all know them by heart, and this is how they actually try to make their own structure the truth. One of the sentences they use in this context is that this law is intended to prevent successful people who have achieved something from entering politics. You've heard that a couple of times around here. So I just want to make a few comments on this. One. I don't know about you, but I don't think that successful is just the one who's rich and who has a holding. There are other successful people. Secondly, it's not true that these people can't go into politics. What is it, going into politics? What we're talking about is that these people shouldn't be in positions of government. They can do politics at any level, they can be party leaders, they can be movement leaders, but it's about not having to report a conflict of interest to each other government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u27	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Minister. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I just wanted to draw attention to the slight error that has entered into my colleague Kučera's speech to correct me if I am wrong, but it may be, not perhaps, but certainly, recorded on the record. He said the company Chepro is directly owned by Minister Babiš. I know Agrofert quite well, but Chepro certainly doesn't belong in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u29	So please don't shout. Mr Jakubčík, Mr Kučera, followed by Mr Jakubčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u30	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not a jealous person, but I'm so jealous right now. I am incredibly envious of my colleagues in the YES movement. They know exactly and know in advance that their finance minister will be in government next term. I hear it's Lex Babiš all over again. But I can't shake the impression that this law is supposed to apply for the next term. That means you already know in advance that Minister Babiš will be in the government. I'm so jealous of you. Clearly, you're not really politicians, because politicians don't know what's going to happen after the election. He can only suspect, he can assume, but know... I really envy you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u31	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u32	I just have to react very briefly. Indeed, Minister Babiš is not yet the owner of Čepro. The owner of Čepra is the Ministry of Finance, where Minister Babiš exercises ownership interests, and it is this company, Čepru, that is the company that supplied another company from the holding, which grew the profits, so it is such a beautiful cycle. But indeed Minister Brabec is right that Minister Babiš is not, yet, the owner of Čepra, the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u33	Thank you. With a point of fact, President Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u34	Thank you. I wanted to confirm the words of Minister Brabec that Minister Babiš never really owned Čepro or owned it from a transparent point of view. However, from the point of view of control and tunneling, it is quite different. It's the same as with Unipetrol, who got in privatization, didn't pay, tweaked, threw at the state's neck. It's the same as with Explosia, which he bought together with Synhesia. He paid, he didn't pay enough, he ransacked, and he sold back to the state for a price of about ten times his friend's price. It is exactly the same as Čepro, which he did not control only when I was Minister of Finance. Now he's controlling her again. And it's exactly the same with all the state-owned businesses that he doesn't own, but he's tunneling in the interest of Agrofert. And those of you who do not see it and do not want to see it do not defend the interests of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u35	I thank Mr Kalousek. With a factual remark, Mr Ivan Pilný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I will stick to the common sense and I would like to say that just as a woman cannot be little or more pregnant, it is a category binary, so the conflict of interest is a category binary. Either it is or it isn't. The same applies to corruption. This law is called the Conflict of Interest Act, so I don't know why we limit it to ministers, because the category is quite clear. Either the confrontation is or it isn't. For example, I have no conflict of interest, but a conflict of interest may have any captain, and has, a conflict of interest may have the mayor of the city of Hradec Králové, and has, and it is a binary category. Why are we limiting it to ministers? Why aren't we talking about a conflict of interest right now? Because the law is called the conflict of interest law. So let's talk about him, not that he applies only to ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u37	Thank you, honourable Member. President Kalousek with a point of order. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u38	Please forgive me, Mr President, but we have moved forward in time. In this fight against corruption, we use some concepts, given what has happened, and we do not see what has brought your movement into public space. Your movement has consecrated the corruption to the law. You don't have to do corruption as a crime anymore. You have created a system where corruption is legal, when a person who controls state property trades with himself under applicable laws, plunders public budgets under applicable laws, and exploits the political power he has gained in the fight against corruption in order to steal completely legally. These are new concepts within a completely new situation that arose from your entry into public space. And I think we're not supposed to wage old wars, but we're supposed to face new threats. And the government of Agrofert over the Czech Republic is a new threat that we want to face.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u39	Thank you. Mr. Faltýnek, with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u40	I'm just a brief reaction to my colleague Kalousek. It's a good thing the Czech public doesn't take his screams seriously anymore because he has that memory. And these are not old wars, my colleague, through Mr President. These aren't old wars. These are specific things, and I'll remind you of them again in a moment. And it's a good thing our public knows who you are and what you've done for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u41	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Ivan Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm finally glad that despite what a lot of speakers have been trying to do here, that it's not Lex Babiš, that it's not personalized. It was finally named. Only the name Babiš has been replaced by the name Agrofert.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u43	Thank you. With a factual remark, President Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u44	It doesn't matter if we call it Lex Babiš or not. It's a systemic problem, because your movement to public space has brought a whole new systemic risk that hasn't been here before. A man who has extraordinary political power, at the same time an economic power that - you, Mr Pilný, have explained here that he cannot -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u45	Through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u46	You explained it to me through Gazdík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u47	I'm Hamáček. We switched here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u48	You explained that the Ministry of Industry cannot have the regulatory conditions of state enterprises because it is interested in their development, so it cannot regulate the conditions of its own. But this is the problem with your movement. Here is the second strongest industrial empire, which, through the first Vice-President of the Government for Economic Policy with your political power, regulates those conditions so that it is beneficial for him, but not for Czech taxpayers. That's really something that's never been here. And that has nothing to do with Babiš. Someone like that might show up tomorrow when Babiš is gone. And I just don't think this company can afford that kind of risk. And no matter what you want to talk about me, Mr. Faltýnek, through the President, what difference does it make to Babiš tunning Lovochemie? What difference does it make that Unipetrol's been truncating? What difference does it make that for years, Chepro tunneled, and that now he's tunneling all the state property again with so much success that Agrofert won a profit of 40 percent more last year? Why did he get that? That everyone worked better there? [[Attention on time.]] No. Because all the taxpayers contributed to it. And we're defending those taxpayers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u49	Thank you. Mr. Chalupa, please. Also a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u50	Thanks for the word. I'm glad the previous speaker here said he was protecting taxpayers. But the taxpayer made a decision in the election, and he's gonna decide again. And you're getting into a situation here where you're putting yourself in the position of the one who knows what the voter expects, what he needs. Like, where do you get the insolence, but the courage to speak for the citizens of this country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u51	Mr. Janulík, then President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. For two and a half years, we have been listening to the truth here, the word of God, through the President of Mr Kalousek, who always knows everything better than others, always knows it sooner and always has to explain it to us. But what did we do? We committed ourselves to coming here because we didn't want it to be here anymore, just the way it was. You say yes, it's never been here, it's never happened here. But that was the mistake! You guys settled in here, and for 25 years, you were doing this system that we couldn't bear anymore, and that's why we just went into politics, maybe we never wanted to do it, but we just had to do it, we didn't want to watch it anymore. And that's all we've done. And it bothers you so much, so you furiously personify it and use it. I'd say no turd is brown enough, and none of it stinks enough. Thank you. , [[Dissenting screams from the ČSSD benches.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u53	Mr Kalousek, please. Colleagues on the left, please calm down. I understand. The debate is heated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u54	Through Mr President, both previous speakers. I'm not buying it. I understand you're legit here. You're saying we had to quit, we had to come up with it, and we had to do something. And your results are really visible. Agrofert increased its profits by 40 percent last year, and that would not have increased without you, Dr. Janulík, and without dozens of your other colleagues, through the President. I understand that you just feel proud of these results. But since they're at the expense of other taxpayers, part of whom we represent, that's why I'm talking about it. I don't have the right to speak for the entire public. That's what your club president, Mr.Faltýnek, said that the Czech public. I don't represent the Czech public or anybody. I represent TOP 09 voters who are represented by 25 Members of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic. This part of the public has no doubt that the YES movement is tunneling public budgets in favour of Agrofert's balance sheet, and we are resisting it. That's all. And since it's not just a question of Agrofert, it's any other oligarch of a similar type that could come after you, it's not just Lex Babiš. It's just a system problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u55	President Faltýnek wishes to speak with priority rights? That's right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u56	Oh, boy. [[Fun in the hall. The speaker shows a blue book entitled "Miroslav Kalousek."]] I carry that book with me all the time. It's in my bag and I'll read it again and again. I'll browse. President Kalousek here is talking about a tunned Lovochemie. Yes, there are a lot of deflated companies left in our country, Mr. Colleague, through the President of the House. In our country, there are a lot of mutilated companies, unemployed and so on. But it certainly was not Lovochemie, my colleague, through Mr President. The company works, employs people, pays taxes. And behind that Babiš, as you call it, there are 30,000 employees left behind, a billion taxes a year. But there's no point in reminding me. What's behind you is what's behind you in this book. And anyone can read that. I'd just like to repeat what's behind you, my colleague. [[19.00 hours]] [[Emotionally:]] Parachutes and corpses! And corpses! T40 - T72 modernization, not T47. That was before. Staff information system, sale of 10 MIG aircraft, sale of hundreds of tanks to Algeria, sale of barracks on the square Republic. We all remember that! Kauzy Diag Human and others and others and others. It's a long book. It's a long book! That is how you need to read it every now and then, when again, Mr President, through the President of the House, you want to preach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u57	I ask Mr Janulík with a point of fact and then President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. To the margo of what has already been said. He won't let me say it. You haven't noticed over the years that you yourself have become the system's fault. You yourselves! You guys locked yourselves in here behind those windows, and you didn't even notice that you yourself were the fault of the system. You're eating your own tail like a Uroboros snake, and if it wasn't, we wouldn't be sitting here! I didn't have to drive that D1,600 kilometers back and forth, and I could have been in the office! But you just lost sight of the disease yourself. That's what we doctors call it. You've lost sight of the disease. You haven't noticed what happened, and you're still refusing to admit it. And the only thing you're focusing on, if you say right, maybe it wasn't all right, so let's think about it. You're like the Juncker who's gonna call Britain names. If you say right, we may have made some mistakes, let's fix it. No, you're just focusing on eliminating us, but that's your way into destruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u59	Chairman Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u60	Thank you. Although I am accused that I am responsible for almost everything, I really cannot, through the President, Mr Janulík, that you drive D1 like an idiot. [[Fun.]] Some of us go there normally. [[Laughter.]] Yes, as Chairman Faltýnek said, the book is long. As long as there were a number of aesthetic unions that simply proved to be slanderous, because if anything on this Babiš paid cancu was just a coincidence of the truth, at least I was accused, at least I would have been investigated for these things, but I wasn't investigated for them, or charged, or charged. That was just a bunch of aesthetic rumors! So if a party led by an aesthetic wants to quote from it, it can, but there's just not a single legal basis for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u61	Mr Volný - another factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u62	I'm begging you, just for a little while. For my colleague Kalousek, through Mr President. You can see exactly how biased you are and how you're lying to all of us here. You say you'd be charged, maybe you're right, but here you spit dirt on Mr. Babiš moaning about robbing the state budget for Agrofert. Has he been charged anywhere?! So, please, take one subway! You have butter on your head! That book Mr. Faltýnek read over there, we all have here, so let's all be quiet and don't use... [[Speech of disapproval from ČSSD.]] ... these practices.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u63	Calm down, please. I ask the speakers to turn to their colleagues through me, and I would generally welcome it if we returned to the substance of the matter. If there are no further factual points, please Mr Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u64	Mr President, the minister as the promoter left, it seems, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I had the advantage today that I had the right of priority, because I do not have a club chairman here, I did not want to abuse him, because I wanted to perform normally and naturally. So I waited about an hour and ten minutes to get to the floor, but never mind, at least I thought it over in peace. I must say that some of the sentences that have been said in the last performances and arguments have made me a little sad, especially from Dr. Janulík, about a system error that I do not understand. If the system's fault is a parliament to him, then it's a problem to think about, which we need to figure out somehow. Or who is it, you're a failure in the system? Who's this: you're a failure in the system? Am I the fault in the system because I have defended this mandate ten times in a row? I'm just saying this question as if it's rhetorical. Does Parliament bother you as a fault of the system, or is it, through the President, or is it the fault of the system? Changing political parties? Free competition and other things? That's the first point. Second point. Some former ministers were recalled here who were accused of conflict of interest at various times. I don't know exactly who remembers, and I've been to some of those meetings. Mr. Bárta very much wanted to be the owner of the White Lion Agency to become Minister of the Interior. Although the situation may have been worse than the situation with this government, we, as the strongest political party, had the strength to say: No, Mr Bárta, you really, as a person who is in the security forces, cannot be the Minister of the Interior, and became Radek John. It was no glory, I know it wasn't. You'll all say maybe you've done worse, but we couldn't have known that before. Yet, somehow, this braking mechanism was here. I blame this on social democracy, with all due respect for it, that it did not have this self-preservation mechanism and that it proceeded to build a man as wealthy and with such a large portfolio of business as Andrej Babiš - and I respect that he has somehow earned it in his life, it is perfectly okay - to become Minister of Finance. But then I see it as a system problem. This bill was submitted by this government coalition, part of which is the YES movement. You could have said, "Let's cancel any conflict of interest law, we're in such a big conflict of interest that it's perfectly legitimate for only a voter to decide, let's not prescribe anything like that." I'd tell you, I'm signing it. Let the voter be a sovereign. Let him decide. But you will present a bill in which, in addition to the existing rules, which I already consider to be strict and incorrect, you will say still, everyone who enters politics, even to the office, who enters the smallest community into politics, has to hand in advance the confession of what property he enters there with. And this doesn't strike you as something wrong, something that restricts entry into politics? It's all right, you can bring it up. And then when it happens to be said, some restrictions might apply to a member of the government, if we're already prescribing such restrictions to the smallest representative, then we'd also have some limitations to that member of the government, at least that we can't enter into public procurement, his companies can't enter into public procurement, his companies can't draw non-interest subsidies, so suddenly everyone starts yelling at us, you're being mean to us, you're fighting Andrej Babiš and the ANO movement! I'm saying, unfortunately, this attitude is extremely inconsistent, and you're not able to distinguish when it's touching the little ones, but when it comes to your chairman, suddenly you're going to get up really hard, and suddenly you're going to start screaming. I am repeatedly in all the discussions on this bill, just as I have said for the last 15 years, saying I am not willing to allow any restrictions on ownership. I will not vote for any restrictions on ownership, I consider it a wrong principle. I quite sign thesis, which was said here, we have some constitutional principles. A slightly different story is ownership of the media and how they laugh or may not cross the media. It's not expropriation, it's just a fairy tale that we have special laws for the media. We say no one can have a full monopoly. [[19.10 hours]] Honestly, if we were to remember here 15, 20 years ago, to which some of you, and I'm sorry about Mr. Janulík, all the time, as if it were some time of darkness that turned us from that beautiful communism into that corrupt, scary capitalism. It seems so unfair to me as long as these sentences are heard here. If someone had said 15, 20 years ago: a political party, a political representative, a government has its own medium, even a medium that pretended to be originally independent - then society would have banished it. Y-y-y-yeah. Václav Klaus tried to say the government wave several times. Do you remember how he ended up with her? Do you remember how he ended up with her? He didn't have the slightest claim!. Now they say, "The media." [[unintelligible]] This is the only thing I'm willing to allow for restrictions on ownership. Otherwise, I agree that ownership is not to be restricted. But if I'm sitting in some kind of position and position where I have immediate influence, I can approach, and I don't think there's anything illegitimate about it, the fact that some of the things that I'm writing aren't supposed to be accessed by companies owned by me. Honestly, at municipal, regional, any other level you would consider it perfectly normal. Every councilman, every captain who owns a company owned by an owner who joins a tender, everyone knocks on his forehead and says, "That's not possible! That's what all the laws the government is laying down are all about. That they say you have to uncover what you own, you have to tell us what your profits are! And when your citizens see that the mayor of the city is writing his own contract for his own company, I'm gonna say to him, "Well, you, my dear mayor, pick up and get out of here! And all of a sudden, when it comes to a member of the government, because it looks so huge in system, it's a problem. So much for that. I will not vote in favour of restricting ownership, subject to what Mr Vondráček said here, but now it is perhaps a theoretical dispute, bare ownership is a different term, an older term related to ownership under communism, when it was really bare ownership, when I was not allowed to enjoy fruits, benefits and everything else. There's no way this is happening. Fruits and benefits, as we well know, are being used by everyone. I wasn't talking about the administration, but that's indifferent. I wanted to say that I will propose one more amendment to use my word and not have to speak for a long time in a detailed debate, in addition to the changes that have been proposed, and that would return the original wording of the law that registration bodies are the competent registration bodies that have been to this day. Whether it is the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate, individual ministries, individual regions, individual municipalities. I consider this centralization effort to be a complete mistake. Just setting up another central register, which I haven't understood until today. Perhaps the only exception is that it is an effort to accommodate several rather aggressive non-profit organizations who do not want to write at 50 addresses, but want to have one address from which they will pull everything and on the basis of which they will bother everyone. I do not see this as correct, and I will propose that we return to the original system, which does not cause any problem, where registration points are the registration points that have been to this day, and that will be the proposal that I make in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u65	I also thank Mr Janulík and Mr Gabal after him. Both factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the floor. To the margo foreman. Thank you for putting it back into a beautifully factual plane, for not having to shout at anybody here, it's a beautiful peace of mind, so we're talking, which is a rare thing here, which I'm really experiencing very little, and I have to say, it's pleasant. I would just like to see Mr Benda's margo, through Mr President: I understand this, but if President Kalousek calls us a system error, you don't mind. And when I say you're the system's fault, it bothers you! So I've been bothering with the two-to-two kilometers from the very beginning, I'd say. That's the main thing, of course. Then on to what you said: If it were, what you're saying, if this voice you were carrying here was the voice of your party all along, I don't think we're gonna be here. Because this is indeed the democracy in its beautiful form, for which we all rang the keys and from which at least at the beginning many of us were happy and voted for you! We were so happy that it was. Then it started to turn and you turned it into such a horror that you don't even see anymore, but when you look at it at home on the news - take it from you, the established political parties, all your former prime ministers and premieres are your evil enemies today, they come from your parties, many are being investigated. And it doesn't seem like a normal situation to me. To me, it seems like a completely absurd situation where every former prime minister on that side steps out and disassociates himself from it. Then she's publishing some books, she's going to court, et cetera. It's just not a normal situation! And that's just proof of what I'm saying: that's the blindness you fell into. Of course, part of you can't even blame it, because it's so weird here. But try to step back and look at it with the eyes of these people. Does it seem normal to you that every former Prime Minister and party chairman is her evil enemy today? It's a pathological situation!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u67	Mr Gabal and then Mr Faltýnek's priority right. Unless there are other factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u68	So just really through you to Marek Benda. We're not dealing with restrictions on ownership, but limiting the risk of conflict of interest, and that's the difference. I think I will personally support the law because I think that spending time here regularly with these debates and suspicions is simply a waste of time, and the Chairman of the ANO movement has to sort it out, and he has to solve it by the next election, because the problem here is objectively. And when they report it to the government themselves, let's work it out so we don't have to go back to it. What we need to say here is two things. First of all, he is not a colleague of Kalousek - it would be good to say what was going on in Bellinzona and how long the Swiss prosecutor was running around in Prague between the Ministry of Finance and the prosecutor Rampula to convince her that there are 12 billion in Bellinzona, which belongs to the Czech Republic and no one is applying to them and no one has claimed them. We can talk about that, too. And then when we're dealing with conflicts on this axis, let's just say why we've been smashing up the best police force to investigate politicians' corruption for full assistance and without any discussion. And that's your mutual interest here!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u69	Mr Vondráček, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u70	Thank you for the floor. There's been a hint that we're going to bring the debate back to the law. There was a good chance. That's what I'd say: let's go back to the law. My colleague Gabal said, "Let's work it out, let's work it out. But that's what I'm saying. But the solution must be in the legal order. I don't find him. And even Mr. Marek Benda didn't answer my question. And he usually finds answers. How a person should act in my situation, for example, if he is to become a member of the government and does not want to dispose of property that has been building for many years. [[Voices from the O.R.]] Well, if you ask me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u71	Colleagues, please don't yell at each other in your own club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u72	Really, I've already asked that question on the air once before, I'll repeat it. Let's try to talk business, calmly about the law, lawyerly, even for a little while, of course I'm not insisting on it entirely, but approximately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u73	I am still registering President Faltýnek's right, but in fact they have priority. So Marek Benda and then priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When the rapporteur challenged me, I felt that it was clear from my speech. I said I wouldn't vote for any restrictions on ownership. I will vote in favour of people in some types of functions not having access to certain types of public money. Contracts, investment incentives, other things. If you want to be Minister of Justice, please decide whether your law firm will compete at the same time for public procurement in representation of the public sector. But that's your decision, which I think you know at the beginning, and it's perfectly legitimate. I'm not voting for any cancellation of ownership. I felt that my position was very clear and clear. [[19.20 hours]] Contracts, investment incentives, other things. If you want to be Minister of Justice, please decide whether your law firm will compete at the same time for public procurement in representation of the public sector. But that's your decision, which I think you know at the beginning, and it's perfectly legitimate. I'm not voting for any cancellation of ownership. I felt that my position was very clear and clear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u75	Chairman Faltýnek with priority rights, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to thank Marek Benda for putting the debate back on track. The gunfight with President Kalousek was because he actually only has an anti-babish program and others don't. But basically, it's at every point and every draft law, so we're used to it. However, I am here - in my opinion, it is about the principle of whether we say: a member of the government can own something or not. We ask what is the difference between a member of the government and another constitutional officer. I personally think that none, but we do not suggest it, because we do not like the principle that ownership is to be restricted, and ownership is not an activity, as my colleague Vondráček has already said. But I had one question that concerned a particular person that Marek Benda was sitting next to, if that's just right, that's how this thing is handled. I don't think we understood each other. I didn't intentionally use any names. It was the story with the company Eskon z Opava, it is possible to Google who the company belonged to and owned. And I say for myself, it's a bad procedure when I do when this company, which is mine as a policy, does business with the state, with municipalities, etc. Then I'll transfer her to my wife, and it's all good. I just wanted to point out here that we don't like it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u77	Mr Kučera with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u78	Thank you for the floor. Only briefly to my predecessor, President Faltýnek, who does not know the difference between the power of the executive and the power of the legislature. So I think it's part of the basic moments when a person enters politics to learn these things. When someone is a member of the government, it makes a difference when someone is a member of the House, it also makes a difference. It is as different as the power of executive and legislative power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u79	I have no further factual points, in which case, with a proper application by Mr Chvojka. Mr Vilímec, who is the last member of the general debate so far, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u80	Thank you for the floor. After the discussion, although I mostly disagree with it, I am willing to join some minor amendment to the Rules of Procedure, because it is really stupid when the person who is mentioned here, i.e. about me making an amendment, then he basically can't speak for two hours in a proper debate, because the others are ahead of themselves. That's wrong with the Rules of Procedure, but that's different. I'm a little sad about this discussion because sometimes we don't really talk on a material level. We're dealing with who stole what, whether that or someone else. We're saying 25 years hasn't been very good here. I don't think that's the point of this proposal. My amendment, and today it is no longer just my amendment, but it is an amendment to the entire constitutionally-legal committee because it has been approved by majority members of the constitutionally-legal committee. cross-cuttingly across everyone outside the ANO movement, so the amendment of the Constitutional Legal Committee today has two levels. The one that was spoken of quite in detail, that's the institute of controlling the person, the other plane was spoken of a lot less, that's the media stuff. I have used these two and a half months since the last constitutional law committee to do so, and maybe I am responding to some of the criticisms, even for example, of my colleague Faltýnek, who I do not see here now, I have used them for a detailed analysis and I have made a change that I think is rational. This means, in my proposal, where it is stated that a public official must not be the controlling person of a trading corporation, and if he is and will become a minister or head of a central government body, then within 60 days he has to deal with it somehow. If they don't load, I will. has no right to a share of the profits of a legal person in which there is a conflict of interest. I've done my own analyses, not just to my own, but to some more experienced colleagues. And yes, here I admit that this principle could raise questions. I could. I'm not saying it's unconstitutional, in my opinion, the chance that this would hold up in the Constitutional Court, because I assume that the ANO movement will probably put the press in the Constitutional Court. So I am of the opinion that this could unnecessarily raise the question of constitutionality as to whether it is not contrary to the Charter, Art. 11. It would overwhelm further discussion. That is why I have this penalty, which is that the public official is in conflict of interest and is a person in control, so I have dismissed this penalty. That means what we have here, for example. Mr. Benda objected, he is not there, i.e. that public official who's in conflict doesn't charge within 60 days, that's the right to a share of his profits. That's for sure, I don't want to say a certain kind of helpfulness on my part, but it's proof that I was still thinking about the proposal and that I'm not some fanatic who wants to present something and blindly doesn't listen to some of the criticisms. As for -- yes, some of my colleagues said it, I wanted to say it, but I came two hours later. The proposal is not, nor can it be targeted against a particular person. It's like when we're talking about the Act on the Ombudsman and a lot of people here are saying it's because I would vote, but I'm not going to vote because it's what Mrs Šabatová does. For God's sake, we should make decisions, for example. The state's attorney's attorney's law that Mr. Zeman's the Attorney General? It's just not how laws should be written. And they're not. That's what you, friends of YES, unfortunately for that particular person, but I understand, you're the one who put it on. I'll repeat what one of my colleagues said. I just don't know who's gonna be in the next government. We ourselves as ČSSD, when I return to 2010, were the presidents, the prime minister and the ministers, and you know how it all turned out. Assuming that someone will ever be Prime Minister or Minister, that's really indiscreet in politics, because, as we all know, politics is changing from week to week and month to month. So I'm sure I admire it, someone's already said it, your outlook for the future, that you're so sure. After all, successful people aren't just on your side. Successful people are on our side. When I look at our club, I see a lot of successful people. I really don't want to stop someone who's a successful person from getting into politics. If it said: whoever owns this and that cannot run, cannot run for politics, so yes, he violates his constitutional rights, his equality in that he can run for office like everyone else. But I don't want this, and we don't want the whole constitutional committee to do this. We are just saying that anyone in public office, especially a member of the government, may have such a conflict of interest that subsidies and public procurement can pass on in that capacity. And that can just happen. The second thing about point two, about media matters. There wasn't much talk about it, but remember the debate, now I don't remember whether it was at the beginning of this term or at the end of the last one, but for a very long time it was settled that some municipal printed matter - many of you here are representatives, mayors, you were mayors, you were mayors, you were mayors, councillors - some municipal printed matter abused the fact that the garniture at City Hall abused the printed matter for itself. The opposition had no access. This has been resolved by the fact that the opposition has a mandatory penny on some side, a percentage of what must be provided. But it seemed strange to everyone that the mayor - and, of course, immoral, certainly not illegal, but immoral - was publishing the mayor's community paper and writing about himself. And, of course, just the assumption that the mayor would own the paper, I'm talking about everyone being weird if the mayor owned the paper, for example. Chrudim paper. I'm from Chrudim. Chrudim paper or Prostějov paper. If the mayor were to publish the Prostějov paper... Yes, they don't publish their papers, they publish circuit newspapers...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u81	Colleagues, please don't discuss outside the microphone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u82	So everyone would think it was weird. And we've been dealing with the independence and objectivity of the municipal newspaper here at the House. In my opinion, the principle that a member of the government or the head of the central government cannot own the media is even more understandable and clear. It's just, if we're expecting the mayor to know that if there's a conflict of interest in the town paper, then maybe if he owned his own newspaper, we wouldn't expect any independence. And I don't expect it from the minister. I don't think the newspaper that the minister owns is completely independent, even though I'm trying. But I just don't consider them independent. If the paper had been owned by the President - if the newspaper had been published by the President of the Republic, it would have seemed strange to me. I wouldn't consider them independent. I'm sorry to Mr. President, I mean that very generally. So I'd like to end it. I'm going to sign up for that change in a detailed debate. I repeat, once again, I'm releasing mine, virtually. the constitutional amendment that the executive will lose the right to a share of the profits unless it compensates for its conflict of interest. And then there's the second thing, but that's more of a legislative technical, formulational specification, a provision that concerns the ban on the exercise of voting rights, so there's the expression that I change with voting rights to a more appropriate term, which is more in accordance with the Commercial Corporations Act, i.e. not to have voting rights, but to exercise voting rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u83	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Have a good afternoon. I have an apology here. Today, from 19 o'clock to the end of the meeting, Mrs Golasowská apologizes. I will also ask for a speech in Mr Vilímec's general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u84	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I was originally the first to sign up, gentlemanly, because I felt the need to respond to Mr Faltýnek's long speech, but I waited about an hour and a half, so I will probably not repeat such gentlemanship next time. President Faltýnek has used the word proportionality here several times in his speech. And maybe that's a good word. And I would like to address the adequacy of the proposed law on public officials, because we do not just have members of the government. If you look at how many municipalities we have, how many mayors there are of municipalities, how many councillors there are in small municipalities, then certainly the highest number of public officials who will be subject to these new ones, if this were approved, is the responsibility of the municipalities. That's quite clear. I certainly do not want to argue and agree that the public has a certain right to know from those persons who decide for them important matters at national, regional and local level, information about their income and donations or their commitments which they have acquired during the period of their mandate. However, I am not only looking at other responsibilities and breaching privacy protection through the optics of ministers or some perhaps sometimes strong political disputes at the level of the largest cities or organizations that these cities are creating, but I am looking at it from the very point of view of proportionality. And we know very well, and it's been here several times in other debates that we have 6 248 municipalities, maybe we have one more village now after one military raid has been canceled. When I looked at how many of these municipalities are municipalities into thousands of inhabitants, this total number of municipalities is 77 percent, i.e. 4 814 municipalities. And when you look at the conflict of interest law, in the case of those public officials, it doesn't really make any difference in their obligations. If I look away from the proposed restrictions for the members of the government, regardless of the proposals that will be submitted, it does not matter whether it is the mayor of the village with a population of 200 or the governor of the region. It doesn't matter, because the duties are the same. They would all have to write down their movable property, which they own on the day preceding the commencement of their duties, if its value in any case exceeds 250 thousand. Crowns. I don't want to open up a debate right now about the value of such property. But I'm gonna ask myself a question. I don't know how much of that entry property, especially with the mayor of a small village -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u85	Mr. Ambassador, I am very sorry, but I am asking the House for peace of mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u86	I don't know how much of that entry property, especially for the mayor of a small village, e.g. A community with 200 inhabitants is such an essential thing. This is a relatively large invasion of privacy justified by the public interest. I recently asked one mayor of our partner city in Bavaria about 7,000 if they had to report some movable property owned before the mayor's office. He looked at me quite misunderstood because such duties, for example. There are no mayors in Bavaria. That doesn't mean they're not under control. But she doesn't lead to any bullying duties. When I read the amendments of the Constitutional Legal Committee, unlike the Minister, I see them positively. They are all trying to remove the very things that are not adequately set up by this government proposal in terms of the adequacy of lower privacy and public interest protection. Yet the request to the mayor or e.g. The directors of small contribution organizations, technical services in a small town announced before the function of so-called. another movable property, whose value in each individual case exceeded CZK 250,000, I consider, forgive me, excessive. In many cases, references to the Internet do not work with regard to the valuation of such property when I read the explanatory note. According to the Internet, it will be difficult to judge whether this painting or musical instrument happens to be a musician who has owned a public official from his parents since time immemorial, has or is not worth CZK 250,000. I am very worried that in an effort to retreat to some non-profit organizations, we are getting more and more astray. I don't know if under these circumstances - and now I'm talking about the concerns of small towns - anyone in small municipalities will want to take up the position of mayors or mayors in the next election. Even in some small towns around my town or city where I live, and there are many such cases, there was little interest in performing the position of unreleased mayor. Somewhere, the mayors have changed three times in this term. In my opinion, you can't just wave your hand over a situation like this. Too much hardening in this law beyond any reasonable limit of proportionality will lead to even greater problems in these cases. And I'm saying it so we all realize it. Therefore, I propose that I do not draw this up, leaving in my amendment at least an existing amount of CZK 500 000 as a value for the matter to be moved, so public officials do not need to list this property before the start of the function. I propose to keep this value also for the value of the property acquired by the public official during the calendar year, as is the case in the current version of this Act. I consider this amount to be an adequate compromise between the protection of the privacy of public officials and the effectiveness of public control. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u87	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. This was the last application for a general debate, and if no one else is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I will ask the final words after the general debate. There's no interest in them. I will ask the rapporteur because I have not driven from the outset whether there has been any voteable proposal. [[He didn't.]] In that case, I am opening up a detailed debate, and I ask Mr Vilímec, who has left the place to return, because he is the first to be entered into a detailed debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u88	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to sign up for a detailed debate on House document 4660. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u89	Thank you. Mr. Plíšek, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u90	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for two amendments that are in the system. One concerns a conflict of interest in terms of controlling persons and membership of the government, has a number in the system 4252. And the second amendment, which concerns the ban on companies of government members to accept non-interest subsidies and investment incentives, has a number in the 4619 system. So 4252 and 4619. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u91	Thank you. Mr Benda, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u92	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to subscribe to House document 4655. This is what I announced in the general debate, this is a return to the original registration points and leaving the idea that there will be one registration point at the Ministry of Justice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u93	Thank you, too, and please, Mr Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u94	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for the amendment, which I have already presented in the general debate. It's loaded in the system under number 4654. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u95	Mr. Tejc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, I will also apply to the motion I made in writing under number 4415. This is rather a technical adjustment. The Constitutional Committee's proposal extends the obligation to file a declaration for judges and prosecutors and says that it will be public. The register won't be public. However, it should also be noted that information cannot be requested under the Act on Free Access to Information, otherwise, of course, the non-publicity would not be fulfilled. So it's more like a technical proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u97	Thank you. Furthermore, I do not see anybody in the debate in detail, so I am ending the debate in detail. Let me ask you about the final words. I merely warn the Minister that we have a fixed point at 7:45 p.m. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u98	Mr President, I would just use these few minutes, and I did not want to delay following the general debate in order to allow amendments to be loaded, and yet I would still comment on some of the things that have been said here. I said there are several principles in the law. One is that there's a single register that's supposed to be kept electronically. From this point of view, actually, I am overlooking Mr Benda's proposal, who wants to cancel and actually leave it the old-fashioned way, but with that we have the experience that it didn't work, even if something else was said here. We don't even know if all those log sites are carrying out that activity. But that is also contrary to the principle of reporting by judges. 'Cause I don't know why somewhere in the Supreme Court they should be in the corner of an announcement that no one's gonna do anything about. What's the point of that? So either let's not put a judge in there at all, or let's put them in there in the same mode and in the same system as everyone else. Same with the state's attorneys. I also said that one of those principles, the changes, is that an entry notice is being introduced. This is supposed to be a sort of comparative base, or starting line, as you want, from which you can then judge whether by chance a public official on the basis of further announcements, if this does not imply that he is abusing the function. The moment the announcements are public, with the exception of this very announcement, which is also one of the proposals, then it makes no sense to introduce this notice, because that will remove the benchmark base. With regard to those amendments that have been read or announced here, which concern the co-operation of equity in commercial corporations or in relation to the media, I would say that, even if it is not in the government proposal, there is what was at the level of the government or coalition, agreement, so I consider it completely legitimate issues that can be dealt with. Nor do I consider any of these variations, almost any of them, essentially unconstitutional on the basis of those quotations on the Constitution, and that is simply a question of political decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-010-011.u99	Thank you. To comply with the Rules of Procedure, I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes the final word, but it seems that he does not. In that case, I'm ending the second reading of this press. And since it's 7:45 p.m., we'll be dealing with a point.
