ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-005-010.u1	10. Government bill amending Act No. 277/2009 Coll., on Insurance, as amended, and other related laws /house print 750/ - second reading I ask the Minister of Finance to give us this bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-005-010.u2	Thank you for the floor. I read it once, so I will just repeat that this is a transposition of the European Solvency II Directive, which was to be implemented on 1 January 2016.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-005-010.u3	Thank you. We have ordered this press to the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantees. The resolution was delivered as prints 750/1 and 2. Once again, I ask Mr Šincl to take up his role as rapporteur. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-005-010.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's gonna be a little boring now. Anyway, I'm gonna go back to the last press. I was hoping for an answer, but I can see I was hoping in vain. However, let me read, within the rapporteur, the resolution that we have reached on the Committee on Budgets, and this is the House Press 750 on Insurance. It recommends that the Chamber of Deputies approve without comment the bill amending Act 277/2009 Coll., on Insurance, as amended, etc., and empowers the rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament of this resolution. Could I, then, continue my intelligence report, Mr President? [[Yes.]] Thank you. With your permission. As I said at first reading, I have one single comment on this rather complex material and it concerns so-called. related activities. It follows from the text submitted by the amendment that insurance companies could not provide a wide range of financial services such as pension insurance and other similar services if this amendment was adopted. This is justified by the alleged increased risk to the stability of insurance undertakings. Personally, I believe that the risk to the stability of insurance companies and the risk to their ability to fulfil their obligations in this matter is so much nonsense, because insurance companies are in the role of so-called. distributors. They're just distributing someone else's product. Personally, I think that there may be some other financial groups that might be able to carry out the related activities. But I'll get to that. [[16.10 hours]] My opinion is different, and I think that we should leave it to consumers - I stress to consumers - to have the opportunity to choose a financial service with his chosen entity on the financial market, which has an appropriate licence with the Czech National Bank. This step could lead to a significant imbalance in the financial market's business environment by removing the possibility of providing other financial services to insurance companies - and beware! - we leave banks, intermediaries and other entities where no change in this approach is required from the point of view of the European Union. As I said at first reading and even at the Budget Committee, you can go to any bank in the Czech Republic or look on the Internet on their website and you can simply find that in the bank next to bank products - account, credit card, credit - you can also purchase life insurance, non-life insurance and other non-bank-related products, such as pension insurance. The paradox is that this wide range, including all financial products, can now be offered without a problem by so-called independent intermediaries. Those are the ones we talked about in the previous press. Everyone in the financial market does, just the insurance companies don't. And I'm asking why. I don't want the answer that some Brussels official made it up, and that's why we need to approve it exactly like this. Then I will have to start asking why it works differently in Austria, Slovakia, Hungary, where insurance companies providing these financial services to their sister organisations are not at all limited and everything works without any problems. I really don't understand. I've already discussed this at first reading. I know some people are tired of it here, but it's important in my opinion, it's a matter for the House, my colleague. I hope that we will come back to this and discuss this further. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-005-010.u5	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the ODS Club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-005-010.u6	I really am not in agreement with the rapporteur, but in order to discuss the proposal he is talking about, someone has to make an amendment. I've made such an amendment. He's in the system, and now I'm gonna justify it. By the time I get to it, a more general remark first. We very often blame the government for disproportionately interfering in business. Ministers, but also government MPs, say that this is not true. So here's one example where we want to limit one group by law and create worse conditions than the other group. To put it simply, before I go into the technical justification, banks can offer insurance and that's okay, but if we accept the text proposed by the Ministry of Finance, insurance companies will not be able to offer supplementary pension insurance or mortgages, for example. At the same time, you know very well that it is quite common for them to compete on the market and that they offer clients competing entities. There's no reason for us to make it possible for one group to do so, and there's no reason for the other group to do so. My opinion is we're supposed to allow it for all the groups. It's up to them to assess their business risk...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-005-010.u7	I am very sorry, Mr. Ambassador, but the left side of the hall is still noisy and noisy. Colleagues, please, outside the boardroom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-005-010.u8	It has such an unpopular, unpopular "related activity" name. The rapporteur has already spoken about this. But the general point is therefore - I will also talk about it tomorrow during the discussion of the related press with the amendment of the Customs Act, when, in my opinion, officials, in this case, the Ministry of Finance, deliberately interpret European directives and find something that is not in those directives, and they have no courage to apply to it and say, "This is our proposal, we think that is good." And they're using the false argument "this is what Brusel wants us to do, we have no choice but to write it into the law." And we have to refuse that. You know very well, many of you, that I am one of those who are very critical of the many steps of Brussels, but please do not hide our own official ideas behind Brussels. Then it's convenient for you all of a sudden. If that is what you want, then apply for it, it is a legitimate ideal contest about whether insurance companies can offer related activities or not, and the European Commission and the European Union are not interfering in any way. The rapporteur has already mentioned this. There are two options.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-005-010.u9	Colleagues... I ask Mr Urban not to discuss it. If this goes on, I'll interrupt the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-005-010.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-005-010.u11	It's been a couple of times, Mr. Colleague. I warned you I'd name it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-005-010.u12	When I was thinking about how to write the amendment, there were actually two options. Either stick to wider practice in Europe, that is to say, in general, that we will allow related activities, or we will actually copy legislation from Austria, where other activities that insurance companies can do are listed taxably. Finally, I have decided and put forward a proposal in the general form. It is no secret that the Czech Insurance Association agrees with this proposal, with which I consulted the proposal. I'm not ashamed of it, because I think a person can and should consult with those to whom the bill touches. The amendment is very simple, in fact only in the part of the first article one in point 10 in Section 3 paragraph. Article 4 (1) (a) (f) - he name is much longer than the rest - the words "investment" are replaced by "investment, intermediate (?) activities in insurance and other financial services'. Like I said, it's not an enumeration method, it's in general form. Then I'll give the minister a little homework because I'm tired of constantly correcting the misprints. Minister, let your officials read once more the text of the bill before this sentence and put it in the right diction, because it is not really the task of opposition Members to correct the wrong Czech and illogical use of Czech words in the bill. That's why we have civil servants who are sure of public service, so they could be careful and catch up with this. First, I will justify this amendment and then, with your permission, because the texts of the Ministry of Finance's opinions on the various amendments that will fall within the time limit do not all have at your disposal, they are only logically available to the members of the Budget Committee, so I will comment on the arguments on which this or similar amendment has already been made here, on which the Ministry of Finance gave a fundamentally negative opinion, and I will publicly argue on the microphone with these arguments and show that officials are either wrong or knowingly not telling the truth about the Solvency II Directive. First of all, the justification for the amendment. The proposal for an amendment shall be taken literally by the article referred to in Article 2 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 18 (1) (a) Directive Solvency II - or we can say in Czech Solvency, it already anyone you want, I think those words are so related that we all understand what they mean - according to which insurance companies must limit their subject matter to insurance activities and operations arising from them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-005-010.u13	So this time it's the right side, virtually. Right center. Colleagues, please, outside the courtroom!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-005-010.u14	However, there is no uniform interpretation in the European Union of the operations resulting from insurance activities. The provisions establishing the scope of authorised activity for insurance undertakings have existed in the law of the European Union in the natural state since 1973, i.e. since the first Directive No. 73/239 EEC - see, this is still the European Economic Area, a very old designation and a name that has long not been used - and has survived this way to this day until the Solvency II Directive. Its purpose is to protect the interest of insured against risks that could occur in the event of...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-005-010.u15	Then I guess we really need to calm down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-005-010.u16	Maybe you don't care. But if you're saying -- and there's a lot of people who are lashing out in the shortcuts of client interests and insured people, then maybe you could... And if you don't like it, I'm gonna ask you to keep your conversations outside the meeting room. The President is making a futile effort so far, but I thank him for that. It follows that not every commercial involvement of insurance undertakings will have a negative impact on business subjects and therefore in line with the interpretation of the Court of Justice of the European Union... This is crazy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-005-010.u17	Colleagues, colleagues, I will interrupt the House meeting for five minutes. Meet me at 16.24 minutes. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 16.19 to 16.24 hours.]] Colleagues, fellow Members, I hope we will continue in a calmer atmosphere, although the views of the right do not fully fill my hopes, Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09... I ask Mr Laudát to settle down as well. Thank you. And now President Stanjura will speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-005-010.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will just repeat that not every commercial involvement of insurance undertakings can have a negative impact on their business and therefore, in accordance with the interpretation of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the limitation of the activities of insurance undertakings does not constitute an absolute ban on insurance undertakings to participate indirectly in other commercial activities. In view of the ununited interpretation of the concept of an operation resulting from insurance activity, the legislative arrangements vary in different countries of the European Union. In order to ensure the purpose of Union regulation in the Czech Republic, this amendment is anchored in accordance with the long-term established practice of the Member States to list activities arising from insurance activities. These permitted activities include e.g.: mediation or distribution of insurance products, in accordance with Directive 2016/97 of the European Union, or mediation of other financial services. Despite the literal transposition of the wording of Article 18 (1) (a) of the Solvency II Directive, formerly Article 8 (1) (b) of Directive 73/239/EEC, in most Member States these activities may generally be considered permitted. These activities are allowed either directly by a detailed list of individual financial services, which I have talked about, e.g. in the neighbouring Austria, or in the form of a general framework, as proposed by this amendment, when it is left to the supervisory authority to assess the specific degree of risk that an individual activity could possibly cause. And this is an adjustment that is e.g. in Germany, Belgium, Italy or Sweden. The authorisation to carry out these activities was only historically justified by the reasons for the interconnection of distribution channels, the existence of combined products with insurance and financial elements, e.g. retail investment products and insurance products with an investment component, consumer interest in a single information and sales site and the development of bank insurance. At the same time, that proposal is without prejudice to the obligation of the insurance undertaking to carry out those resulting activities in accordance with the legislation governing the provision of specific financial services. Moreover, none of the above ways of implementing Article 8 (1) (b) of Directive 73/239/EEC or Directive Solvency II has ever been called into question by the European Commission in individual Member States of the European Union. Now, allow me to put forward a argumentary duel in plenary with the fundamentally negative opinion of the Ministry of Finance, which was delivered to the members of the Budget Committee before the second reading. First, the statement by the Ministry of Finance: The proposed addition of the definition of insurance activities is in direct conflict with Article 18 (1) of the Treaty. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And how is that really? The amendment literally takes over the wording of Article 18 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. In order to increase legal certainty, the Solvency II Directive complements an exemplary list of what can be considered as operations arising from insurance activities whose definition of the Solvency II Directive does not contain. It cannot be so strictly argued that the proposed supplement is in direct conflict with Articles 15 and 18 (2) of the basic Regulation. 1 Solvency II in a situation where there is no negative interpretation given by the Court of Justice of the European Union. In many Member States, this adjustment has been in place for a long time, and the European Commission has never questioned this implementation in the other Member States as supervision of the correct implementation in the Member States. Only the Court of Justice of the European Union, no one else, is entitled to interpret Article 18 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000000. Its current caselaw absolutely does not imply that such a mode of transposition would be contrary to the limitation of the scope of authorised activities for insurance undertakings. The Czech National Bank, too, has never expressed its doubts as a supervisory authority in the Czech Republic regarding the granting of authorisations to insurance undertakings for related activities, although it was obliged to interpret national legislation in a Euro-Conform manner. If, for legal reasons, it had to fundamentally change its position, knowing that European legislation had not changed in any way, it would be in direct contradiction with the predictability of approaches and decisions taken by the government, which could be seen as a threat to the basis of the market economy. [[16.30 hours]] Secondly, the Ministry of Finance's claim: The Government's draft law does not restrict the scope of activities directly arising from insurance activities and leaves the Czech National Bank, as the supervisory authority, to justify whether or not certain activities fall within the scope of activities directly arising from insurance activities. The Czech National Bank will thus base its assessment of this activity on the substance of the insurance undertaking operating the insurance business and the specifics of the financial services sector. Anti-argument: Although specific permits will always be dealt with with by the Czech National Bank, the question is whether there is such a controversial question in the legal state, when the Ministry of Finance gives a fundamentally negative opinion, to postpone the interpretation of the supervisory authority. Such a procedure would be a disproportionate risk, and legal uncertainty would burden the sector whose risk solvency is trying to address, which would be totally counterproductive. Third statement by the Ministry of Finance: Mediation of financial services is a regulated activity that is regulated by specific laws regulating individual sectors of the financial market, and insurance companies would like to avoid this regulation. - We can already see how the bad insurance companies want to avoid the regulation proposed by the Ministry of Finance. - These laws, the Ministry of Finance claims, link the mediation of financial services with a number of responsibilities, including any liability for violating them. The insurance undertaking is thus exposed to a number of risks when providing financial services which are not taken into account in the Solvency Capital Requirement list. Anti-argument: Insurance companies are not prevented from falling under the obligations defined by special laws. On the contrary, it is required that any such resulting activity be supervised by the Czech National Bank and, where appropriate, licensed separately. It will therefore always be at the Czech National Bank to assess whether the insurance undertaking fulfils the legal conditions for carrying out the activity and, at the same time, whether such a risk-related activity can have a real impact on its solvency. At the same time, it should be noted that if insurance undertakings were forced to create a subsidiary for the distribution of other financial products, this would not have been taken out of the insurance undertaking by the Ministry of Finance declared but in practice completely hypothetically risky. Moreover, since it is not possible, from a reputational point of view, within consolidated financial groups, that a distribution subsidiary should be sent to insolvency in the event of any problems and the mother to appear - nothing is happening. I think it would ruin the reputation of a particular insurance company to face such problems. There is also a crucial argument of consumer protection, which would be significantly limited by this, which is certainly not the aim of insurance companies or the Ministry of Finance, or the supervisory authority, of the Czech National Bank. Fourth statement of the Ministry of Finance. - You can see how much they've worked with it, with a fundamentally negative opinion on such a simple matter, if insurance companies can offer other products than insurance if they fulfil all their legal obligations. - So the Ministry of Finance's claim: Include financial services mediation under a single permit, so-called. a single European passport which allows the pursuit of insurance activities in other Member States on the basis of the right of establishment and freedom to provide services may result in disputes where, in another Member State, the provision of financial services is not regarded as directly arising from the insurance activity. - Here, let's note the contradiction of the claim with the first claim. That, in the first claim, the Ministry of Finance said that this is directly contrary to European case law and European legislation, and here it suddenly says: there could be a problem if this is not permitted in one of the Member States. So he admits, logically, when it is allowed in many European states, that it exists, and in itself disproves argument number 1. And argument against claim number four: The proposed narrow definition may cause problems in the freedom to provide services and freedom of establishment and put Czech insurance and reinsurance undertakings at a disadvantage. Most parent companies of insurance companies operating on the Czech market come from other countries, such as Germany, Austria, Italy. These are the countries in which the parent companies of Czech insurance companies are registered, where other financial services such as mortgages, consumer loans, etc. are also included under insurance operations. In this respect, we could become the only country compared to our neighbours, which, when leaning towards restrictive interpretation, hinders the competitiveness of our insurance companies compared to insurance companies in the surrounding Member States, which can provide consumers with a larger range of interesting services within the one stop shop, or Czech, if anyone were to object, one place from where you will receive an offer, a unified information campaign and so on, rather than insurance companies of the Czech Republic. It is amazing that, as the last country to accept this adjustment, we choose the most restrictive version of language interpretation in other countries, regardless of the substantive purpose of regulation, which is to ensure the solvency of insurance undertakings more adequate or more appropriate to manage their risks rather than to learn, for example, as I said, in Austria or Germany, where they have already implemented this directive and come out of its positive experience. So we are again the strictest of all and make the competitiveness of Czech insurance companies difficult. Fifth statement by the Ministry of Finance: Extensive national regulation in some Member States, which has no support in the Solvency II Directive or in the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, cannot be a reason for the same approach in the Czech Republic. - Well, that really amused me, when I always hear Croatia at the EET, I hear Slovakia at the inspection report, so when it's convenient and it's in line with the political objectives of the government, there's a need to learn from foreign patterns. In this case, it is not appropriate for the government to write what we might rightly say in other cases: The fact that they have it next door does not mean that we will have it too. It's a škoda the Treasury doesn't proceed with the same restrictive laws, I'd say the right approach. Because I'm never gonna say that just because the neighbors have it, that's what we're supposed to do. We're just saying that it's not true that it's not allowed, and they point out that's what the neighbors do. Arguments against this last claim: the large founding Member States which allow insurance undertakings to provide other financial services, such as Germany and Italy, and other countries with a high level of knowledge of European Union law, such as Sweden and Austria, do so. There's no - I have said this once before, I stress this once more - there is no caselaw of the European Court of Justice that prohibits this practice. If that were the case, long ago those Member States, whether founding countries or countries with a high knowledge of European legislation, would have adjusted their national legal systems according to the rule where there is no prosecutor, is not a judge. The Court has not yet had a single opportunity to address this issue. Then I hope the first prosecutor is not found in the Czech Republic. I don't think we really have to stand up for the first time in some areas. It also follows from the fact that the European Commission has never questioned such an implementation in the Member States, therefore it has not even brought an action for breach of contracts pursuant to Article 258 against any of the many Member States granting authorisation to insurance undertakings. A small branch: As we know, in other cases, the European Commission can be very consistent. For example, let us remember the European Commission's big fight with the fact that we poorly implemented some lines in driving licences for citizens other than citizens of the Czech Republic. So even such detail is able to explore, challenge, or attract the Czech Republic. [[16.40 hours]] In this case, the legislation applies for many years in a number of countries, and it has not done so once. Furthermore, in the context of national proceedings, the interpretation of operations arising from insurance activities has not become subject to a preliminary ruling pursuant to Article 267, except for approximately two cases. However, there is no indication from these two cases that insurance companies could not provide other financial services. On the contrary, it would be possible for insurance companies to participate directly in such a service providing and Advocate General Colomer, in his Opinion on the preliminary question C109/99, which the Court of Justice subsequently did not dispute, directly stated that it was not an absolute prohibition and that it was not prevented from participating in commercial activities other than insurance. The main guide is only the purpose of this limitation. There was a clear reason for which insurance companies could not provide certain commercial services. This is why it is logical to protect the interests of insured persons against risks that could arise in the event of the involvement of insurance undertakings in such commercial activities and have an impact on their solvency. This approach therefore examines what the legislator's intention was and what the purpose of the legal standard is and, in my view, by systematic interpretation, we are to follow the scope of the permitted activities. The use of purely language restrictive interpretation can, in its negative effect, make it impossible for insurance companies from the Czech Republic to compete in the EU internal market. It's kind of my favorite sentence when I say sometimes reading - here translation for one, but understanding text for five. And it is much better to examine in detail the intention of the legislator, in this case European legislators, practice in the surrounding countries, and then implement it in the Czech Republic. Sixth statement of the Ministry of Finance: The proposed supplement does not take into account the existence of special laws governing the conditions for the mediation of other financial services. For example, the Consumer Credit Act, we will discuss it and vote tomorrow, the Supplementary Pension Savings Act, we did that, I think, last year, the Capital Market Business Act, we also discussed this the other day, and the obligation of insurance companies to comply with these special laws. But that really is an absurd objection. The Ministry of Finance says: If one law states that other laws must be followed, it is wrong. So let's imagine this absurd interpretation in practice. In every law we adopt, there will be a list of all other laws that must be respected by those involved. We'd have long laws, wouldn't we? I'm sure we can agree on that. I said in the explanatory memorandum that insurance companies are not prevented from licensing individual activities separately. And it is absolutely clear that anyone who wants to carry out - for example, providing consumer credit - must abide by the Consumer Credit Act, regardless of whether it is also governed by the Insurance Act at the same time. That is what I think is perfectly logical, and this reservation by the Ministry of Finance is only there to make the reservations better. Otherwise, I really don't understand. But then we can ask again about the budget committee, how do we put this? - as the Treasury officials actually meant. I was thinking about the famous phrase from the Pelíšek, who you saw it, about the coffee spoons made of plastic, who didn't actually make it. The seventh statement of the Ministry of Finance: The change made in the first part of Article 1 (10) of the Government Bill concerning the definition of insurance activity is also according to the difference table of implementations - Article 18 (2) of the Act. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) the Solvency II Directive, where, inter alia, I quote the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, provides for the obligation of the home Member State to require that any insurance undertaking applying for authorisation restricts its subject matter to insurance activities and operations directly resulting therefrom, excluding all other commercial activities. Pursuant to Article 15 of that Directive, authorisations shall be issued for each sector of direct non-life or life insurance, Part A of Annex I, or Annex II. It concerns the whole sector, unless the applicant wishes to cover only some of the risks included in the sector. Risks included in the relevant sector may not be included in any other sector except in cases of additional risk, as described and regulated by Article 16 of the Solvency II Directive. Authorisations may be issued for two or more sectors where the national legislation of a Member State allows them to carry out activities simultaneously in those sectors. As regards non-life insurance, Member States may issue authorisations for non-life sector groups. This is Part B of Annex I. Supervisory authorities may limit the authorisation required for one of the sectors to the activities specified in the business plan. Insurance undertakings falling within the scope of this Directive may carry out assistance activities - this is provided for in Article 6 of the Solvency II Directive - only if they have been authorised for the assistance services sector. Such authorisation is valid for the whole of the European Union, respectively. for the European Economic Area. It allows insurance undertakings to operate throughout the scope of such authorisation, both on the basis of the right of establishment and the freedom to provide services. The Solvency II Directive, as it follows from its preamble, e.g. point 11, constitutes an essential instrument for the establishment of the internal market, i.e. the harmonisation of the rules necessary and sufficient to achieve mutual recognition of authorisations and the supervisory system, in order for the whole of the European Union, respectively. The European Economic Area, a single permit was in force and the supervision of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking was allowed to be carried out by the home Member State. This is the maximum harmonisation when a derogation from the text of the directive is possible, provided that such a procedure expressly permits or results from its nature. So many claims number seven to the Treasury Department. Let's try to argue against this claim. It can be agreed that Article 18 (1) of the Solvency II Directive constitutes maximum harmonisation and cannot be transposed more widely or more closely. However, even this conclusion does not mean that insurance companies in the EU would be limited to insurance activities without more. It is necessary to continue the debate, which therefore constitutes and contains the permitted activities in this article. The main question is not about the degree of harmonisation, but about the interpretation of the concepts of what activities and operations arising from insurance are, as the rapporteur also said in his intelligence report. Unfortunately, this concept is not defined anywhere, neither in the directive itself nor in the case law of the EU Court of Justice. It wasn't clear. As a result, this concept is understood differently in the Member States and, in general, relatively broad. The case-law of the Court of Justice does not imply that the intermediary activity of similar financial products could not fall under that concept. On the contrary, both the Court of Justice and the Advocate General have chosen, in accordance with a pro-business approach which neither precludes nor aims to exclude individual insurance undertakings from competition in the internal market. [[unintelligible]] Another statement by the Ministry of Finance: The provisions of Article 18 of the Solvency II Directive have been taken over in their natural content since 1973, that is from the first directive, I have said that number several times, from 1973, to the Solvency II Directive. In doing so, the claim ignores, in principle, the difference in the calculation of the solvency requirements under the previous and new system. It's logical. If the solvency requirements hadn't changed, the new directive wouldn't have been adopted and the old one would have paid. For Solvency I, it was an obligation to create a certain financial cushion in addition to covering technical provisions. Solvency II, in accordance with Article 100 and the following, requires the holding of eligible own funds to cover the Solvency Capital Requirement, calibrated to take account of all quantified risks to which the insurance undertaking is exposed. At a value of - at the risk of its primary capital at a confidence level of 99.5 %. In a one-year time frame. Since the Solvency II Directive expressly prohibits insurance undertakings from carrying out business activities other than insurance activities and operations directly resulting therefrom, they are not the content of the calculation of the Solvency Capital Requirement of the risk arising from an activity which is to be extended beyond the scope of the Directive by insurance undertakings. [[16.50 hours]] If the risk is material, it will be included in its own risk assessment under Section 7c, which is Article 45 of the Solvency II Directive, which forms an integral part of the insurance undertaking's overall strategy. This assessment is carried out by the insurance undertaking regularly and immediately after any significant change in its risk profile and the results of each assessment will be notified by the supervisory authority, which is in our case the Czech National Bank. However, the risk and solvency assessment is not used to calculate the capital requirement. This can only be adjusted in accordance with the group internal model for the calculation of the group Solvency Capital Requirement in the event of significant deviation of the risk profile of the insured assumption for the calculation of the group internal model, or in the event of deviation of the risk profile. It will thus be up to the insurance undertaking to assess the risk and whether it will increase its own capital or to consider its own capital as appropriate. The competence of the Czech National Bank would therefore be significantly limited, only by assessing whether or not this policy of the insurance undertaking is sufficiently prudent. Nor can it be agreed that, in accordance with the permitted activity, the mediation or distribution of insurance products is in line with EU/2016/97 or other financial services. This claim - written by the Ministry of Finance - has no support in any provision of this or the implemented directive. While Directive 2014/65/EU does not consider insurance mediation to be an intermediary activity under the IMD Directive - we will implement it here, Minister, if I am not mistaken, in some next amendment that may already be coming to the Ministry of Finance - but it has not been logically taken over by the new directive regulating the distribution of insurance products, since the insurance undertaking is a distributor under this Directive, but not an insurance intermediary. The argument against this statement, and I have reduced it a little bit, is that of the Minister of Finance itself: once again, it is recommended that we assess the intention of the legislator, systematic interpretation and linguistic interpretation. If we really judge this fair, then we find that insurance companies are still entitled to mediate or distribute insurance products from other insurance companies. According to the newly adopted directive on the distribution of insurance companies, although they are not considered as insurance intermediaries, they are its distributors. Here you can hear for yourself, if you are still listening to me, how complicated it is, how complicated the words are, that although you arrange insurance in the semantic meaning of the Czech language, but at the same time you are not an intermediary, but a distributor and so on. Therefore, the debate should be technical and should not be assessed on the basis of who is proposing the amendment, but whether it makes sense. I could go on, I have a few other statements from the Treasury Secretary, but I won't burden you any further. To put it simply, either by law we limit the business of insurance companies and disadvantage them both in the financial services market in the Czech Republic and disadvantage them against competing insurance companies from neighbouring countries, or we will not do so. I recommend that we do not maintain a free market environment and that those who fulfil strict conditions, legal conditions in the distribution and provision of certain financial services be given the opportunity not to be prohibited by the law. There's no reason for that. Thank you for listening to me, and thank you for supporting my amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-005-010.u19	Thank you. That was Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Before I give the floor with priority rights to the rapporteur, Mr Ladislav Šincl, let me make two apologies - Mr Pavel Holík and Mrs Jana Lorencová. P I'm a rosary, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-005-010.u20	Let me just say, Mr President, that my news report was probably very inspiring, but unfortunately, it has only inspired Mr Stanjura so far, which I am very sorry. But I must appreciate Mr Stanjura's speech that he has been deluded into the directive and the content and understanding of the Solvency II Directive as, I dare say, as one of the few in this Chamber of Deputies. And I must also thank you for showing the honourable Members what we need to deal with on the Committee on Budgets - those opinions that the Ministry of Finance gives us, and it sometimes justifies perhaps even the unwarranted. Now it seems as if I was performing in my intelligence report that I was somehow in agreement with Mr Stanjura, but it really isn't. I just have a little thought that I'm a little worried about his amendment. I'll tell you why right now. Because today I was discussing this by coincidence with the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs Jurošková, about the fact that we, as a coalition, would like to live sometime in a state where when we put forward any, perhaps the most reasonable, parliamentary amendment - the most reasonable, not any lobbyist - so that sometimes the position of the Ministry of Finance was something other than negative, because, as I remember back, it has always been - always - that no matter how we put it, that after Sunday it was Monday, the position was automatically negative from the Ministry of Finance. Personally, I think of Mr Stanjura's opinion, I do not want to create a dedicated coalition here, that the rational idea is there, and that we could therefore deal with it. I would like to mention my discussion with Deputy Minister Jurošková on this matter. She told me how the Ministry of Finance, she and the entire Ministry of Finance - and, of course, the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš is open to discussion and it is only necessary to discuss these matters in a timely manner so that we could discuss the idea of an improved amendment, some proposal that the Ministry of Finance will make in time, so that we can discuss it in a timely manner. I told her that, of course, I would love to, but unfortunately, I have so much experience so far, that anything that I have said that the Ministry of Finance itself does not submit through one of its Members to the budget committee is automatically negated. Personally, I'm telling you the hard way here, this attitude is getting pretty out of hand. I want to say here that the time is coming when I and priori are likely to reject any proposal from the Ministry of Finance to show them what they are doing to the members of the Committee on theirs, I say sensible, amendments. All I'm saying here is that we're trying to discuss these things. We're really open. And I believe the words of the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs Jurošková, that even in this case we will be discussing that we will seek a common path to resolve this so that things that have been in history do not have to happen here so that we do not have to blame ourselves for anything. Our goal and my main goal is to improve the laws, not cripple them. Upgrade! And I don't want to be directly accused of being presented and written by Šincl, so that an official at the Treasury will automatically take a pencil and write negative without reading it, and then spank some justification. I just want to live to see that, at least within the coalition, we will discuss this matter. Otherwise, in my case, I'm really on the edge here blindly following instructions from the Treasury. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-005-010.u21	I thank the rapporteur, who was in the debate with priority rights. Mr Petr Kudela, now duly enrolled in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-005-010.u22	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ministers. Reconfidence. It would seem to belong at the last point, and I waited for this House press on purpose. Who's profiting from the reinsurrection? Intermediaries. Why doesn't the insurance companies mind? The insurance companies don't mind, because they have a personal profit out of it, it's just a profit out of it for the insurance companies. Building savings, pension insurance, accident or accident insurance. Why aren't the problems of this type of product? Because they have clear rules for setting up a contract and informing clients. This also does not apply to investment insurance. Insurance companies are legally obliged to communicate a wide range of information to clients, both before and during the contract. The client is to be informed before the insurance contract is concluded of the method of determining the amount of the redemption, the conditions and time limits relating to the possibility of withdrawal from the insurance contract, the method of identification, possible deductible items and information at the address at which the withdrawal from the insurance contract can be sent. It should also be informed during the duration of the contract on the current value of the share to which the premium is linked at least once per quarter and on the structure of the underlying assets for investment-linked insurance at least once a year. I got this information from the Czech Insurance Association. The insurer is obliged to provide information in a clear and accurate manner in writing and in the Czech language. From what I have read, I can declare that this applies only to the provision in the Czech language. For building savings, etc. We know how much commission, how much money is paid to banks for keeping accounts, we know about interest, we know about taxes paid. I don't know this for the insurance policy. I don't know. I don't know. In my opinion, this is a field for the supervisory authorities of the Czech National Bank and the Ministry of Finance. I have tried to prepare for these current standards an adjustment that would order banks and insurance companies to provide information to clients according to my wishes. However, I did not find a partner with whom I could prepare substantively correct amendments. Both the Ministry of Finance and the Czech Insurance Association referred me to the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 November 2014 on a key information document concerning structured retail investment products and insurance products with an investment component. That's what I'm doing. the obligation of a key information document for products which include information on the consequences of early termination of the contract, all fees, fines or loss of protection of capital. I think that if this were true now and the clients knew exactly how their life insurance with the capital component, what condition it is in, what is the amount of the ransom, etc., would not arise from the question of endless overconfidence. Personally, I have defended myself against some overconfidence, but with this standard under discussion, I have found myself in what condition my life insurance with capital savings is in. I have to say that the word capital is very strongly exaggerated here, and I regret that I personally did not care about this before, because I personally do not have these statements coming home to me. Therefore, I can look forward to the European Commission's regulation being directly applicable to the Member States of the European Union from 31 December 2016, and until then we will have to endure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-005-010.u23	I thank Mr Kudel, that was the last in the general debate. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words - Minister? The rapporteur? It's not like that. I therefore open the debate in detail. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mr Václav Votava is the first to be entered in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-005-010.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, my performance will be very short. I would like to sign up for the amendment that I have tabled in the system, and it is the House document under number 4384. I think that there is no need for me to justify this amendment, or there is a justification directly in the amendment, which meets the conditions for submitting an amendment to the system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-005-010.u25	Thank you. You're right, Mr. Colleague. As Mr Stanjura announced in the general debate, he too is entered into a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-005-010.u26	Thank you for the floor. I formally subscribe to the amendment which I justified in the general debate. At the same time, this is also part of the House document, which contains both the amendment and the justification, and the House document has number 4455.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-005-010.u27	I thank Mr Stanjur. Now, Mr Syblík, in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-005-010.u28	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for the amendment in the system under number 4464. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-005-010.u29	Thank you, honourable Member. Now I ask if anyone is reporting for a detailed debate. If this is not the case, I am also ending the detailed debate. There has been no proposal that we should vote on after a detailed debate at second reading, which is why I am ending item 10. I thank the Minister and thank the rapporteur. The next item is:
