ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-010-039.u1	39. Government bill amending the Senate's statutory measure No. 340/2013 Sb., on real estate acquisition tax /house print 639/ - first reading I ask the Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš to take the floor for the government. - I'm sorry, Prime Minister. I would like Mr Jan Volný, who is the rapporteur for first reading, to appear at the rapporteur's table. Since it has been approved by the Organising Committee, Mr Holeček, I will delay you by one more vote, if you agree to this - to change the decision of the Organising Committee that the rapporteur would be Mr Volný. Who's in favour of voting order number 201, changing the rapporteur? A colleague of the Volný got his trust. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 201 out of 137 present 126 pros, no one against. We have a reporter in place. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-010-039.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly mention the bill amending the Senate's legal provisions. 340/2013 Coll., on real estate acquisition tax. The main objective of the proposed changes is to eliminate the shortcomings of the legislation that have emerged in relation to its application in practice and to make other substantive changes that practice has requested, including those which are intended to prevent undesirable tax optimization. The most important changes brought about by the bill are the unification of the taxpayer's person to the acquirer and thus the elimination of the option of the taxpayer's choice and the guarantee institute. The clear definition of the acquirer as a taxpayer removes a number of difficulties that arise in practice and correspond to the concept of the laws of most European Union countries. Furthermore, it is necessary to highlight the amendment of the concept of taxation for the acquisition of civil engineering networks. In view of the unclear and ambiguous legislation of civil engineering networks, a tax regime which is not dependent on resolving the issue of the nature of the civil engineering networks has been introduced. It is therefore proposed to tax only the acquisition of ownership of the building under the cadastral law, which is part of the engineering network. Another significant change is the exemption of the acquisition of immovable property by local authorities in connection with the change of the payer's person. The taxation of a case where a taxpayer is a territorial self-governing entity is neither reasonable nor effective, since it would only mean the transfer of funds between individual public budgets. The substantial change brought about by the bill is the simplification of the determination of the tax base for the real estate exchange, where it is proposed to take into account only the possible surcharge when determining the agreed price. An important change is also the modification of the concept of exemption of new buildings and units. It is proposed that this exemption apply to the first acquisition of the construction and the unit completed or used. The effectiveness of the Act is proposed on 1 April 2016. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-010-039.u3	I thank the Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and the rapporteur for his report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-010-039.u4	Dear colleagues, the Minister has named this amendment exactly, so I just ask that we approve it and let it go to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-010-039.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate in which I have no written application. I'm asking who's checking in from the scene. Yes, Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura, first signed up for debate. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-010-039.u6	Thank you. We discussed our proposal to abolish this tax a few weeks ago, so I advise in advance that we will propose, on the one hand, that the tax be abolished in the next reading or, alternatively, a reduction in this tax, because the reduction is good if we are unable to give zero. If we were to approve it the way it is proposed, I consider it unnecessary to change the law, because the property acquisition tax will in any case be reflected in the purchase price and it almost doesn't matter who pays it. The buyer will make sure it goes to the expense of the property - or the seller will make sure it goes to the expense of the buyer. Everything else is pointless, because it's much better to let it be settled, who pays for it, but it's always really paid by the buyer. Whether by being a higher purchase price or by being directly from the property sale contract is the payer. The only thing that can change is the one who has a duty to the State and the Financial Authority. But even there today, the other side is liable for the one who won't pay the tax. We're not going to propose a rejection, I'm just saying that we're going to propose a cancellation of this tax at the next reading, because if you look at the Minister's reply to one of my written interventions, you're going to find - hundreds, hundreds of officials are dealing with this simple tax, which is basically an administrative matter. And if any tax is difficult to explain to citizens why it is being paid, it is a tax on the acquisition of real estate. For property tax, you can say: it provides you with a city to which you pay it, or the community you pay it, some services, lights up for you there, serves pavements, etc. But here you buy real estate for your taxed money, and you pay 4 percent to the state. The right question is why. And it certainly isn't for the operation of the cadastral authorities, because the yield, I think, is about 9 or 9.5 billion. per year, it is a negligible amount. The moment you find that more than 800 billion will be collected annually. all taxes, so it's about 1%. But it doesn't pay 1 percent of tax officials, but much more. And then the result is completely simple. The tax is useless, the yield too small, the officials too much, and it is certainly better to cancel it than this, I would say, cosmeticly modify it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-010-039.u7	Thank you. Who's next for the debate? I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. There was no motion to return or refuse. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We shall take a vote on who agrees that the proposal tabled should be ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantee. I have begun voting number 202. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 202, of the 145 present is for 163, against no one, the proposal was adopted. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to other committees to discuss? It's not like that. There is therefore nothing to vote on. I can say that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budget as a Committee on Guarantee, the deadline for the hearing has been maintained under the Rules of Procedure Act for 60 days. I thank the Minister of Finance and thank the rapporteur, and I conclude with point 39. At the same time, I will hand over the proceedings to the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-010-039.u8	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We will continue to discuss the next point and that is
