ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u1	53. The proposal by Radka Maxová, Jan Hamáček, Jana Pastuchová, Jaroslava Jermanová, Jana Hnyková, Soňa Marková, Jana Černochová, František Vácha, Margit Balaštíková, Martina Berdychová, Marek Černoch, Radim Holeček, Pavel Ploc, Jiří Dolejš and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 115/2006 Coll., on registered partnership and amending some related laws, as amended, and other related laws /German press 320/ - first reading The motion submitted shall be presented by the representatives of the appellants, Mrs Radka Maxová, whom I ask to come to the rapporteur's table. My colleague Pastuchová will replace her? dobře, so, Mrs. Pastuchová. The rapporteur for first reading is Mr Radek Vondráček, but he is duly excused from today's meeting. So Mr. Pleticha's colleague is reporting as rapporteur. We will have to decide that in the vote before the negotiations begin. I therefore ask who agrees that Mr Lukáš Pleticha should be the rapporteur for the first reading of the press 320. I've started voting number 232 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 232, from 132 in favour of 119, against 1. The motion was accepted. I will ask my colleague Pleticha to come to the rapporteur's table and, at the same time, ask the plaintiff's representative, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, to take the floor. A colleague, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u2	Thank you. I will represent the plaintiff here -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u3	I'm gonna interrupt you one more time. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important that we listen calmly to the representatives of the appellants and try to see this proposal. If you're having a discussion about something else, in that case, in the foyer. Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u4	Thank you. I will represent my colleague Radka Maxová, who is a petitioner, but I am one of the 27 authors of this amendment to the Act on Registered Partnership, which should enable the child to be adopted by a partner or partner in a registered partnership. Before I begin to talk about the content of the proposal itself, let me first explain the reasons which led us to submit it. The current legislation does not allow a partner or partner to adopt the child of their registered partner or partner with whom they live in a common household and in whose education and nutrition they participate, just as a husband can adopt, for example, the child of his wife who has a previous relationship. The same sexual parenthood is usually linked to the question of whether gays and lesbians can be good parents and whether they should raise children. The parent of the child, I think, is the one who raises and cares for the child. The reality in the Czech Republic is that there are more and more families where both parents share the same gender. In addition, there are growing children who are born directly to the same sexually, especially lesbian, couples. Since birth, these children are at a disadvantage from children born in heterosexual unions, for law as parents does not recognize the person they accept as their parents. Legal non-recognition of a non-nebological parent brings children and their parents a number of minor and major complications in their lives. A non-biological parent not only is not a legal representative of a child, and although he usually raises him from birth, he is not entitled to decide on his life or to deal with everyday matters such as school apology, doctor's decision-making. [[17.30 hours]] He doesn't even have a child's maintenance obligation. Neither the parent nor the grandparents of the child have the right to have contact with the child in the event of a breakdown of the partnership. And in this way, I could continue for quite a long time and list a number of troublesome and risky situations in which the child and his parents are getting into. Each of you who have children, try to imagine that you are not the legal parents of your children, and despite doing everything in the world for them, you are legally nothing at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u5	I understand, my colleague. Although I perceive that discussions are also being held on other issues, I would like the discussion in this hall to be open to an open point, i.e. to the press 320, and to speak only to those who have the floor. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u6	Thank you, too. We can say that some of the legal matters of the family can also be resolved by contract. That is true indeed, but parenting is not about contractual relationships. Parenting is about understanding, mutual responsibility and the rights and responsibilities of parenting. Legal recognition of a non - legal parent will thus help to overcome not only the legal problems of a family where both parents share the same sex but will contribute to the effective recognition of this family by society. The proposed legislative intention provides for an exception to the ban on adoption for registered persons, when the partners will be able to adopt the child of their partner. Thus, it is not about adopting a foreign child from substitute institutional care, which is currently free, but about adopting a child who lives in the same sex family with his parent's partner. Furthermore, I would like to say to you that if the child has a second parent mentioned in the birth certificate, its adoption by a registered partner under Section 809 of the Civil Code will only be possible with the consent of the parent. So, for example, if the child is on the birth certificate of the said mother and father, the mother's partner will only be able to adopt the child with the explicit consent of the father. If the child is over 12 years of age, in accordance with Section 806 of the Civil Code, his consent to the adoption will also be necessary. If the child has not reached 12 years of age, according to Section 807 of the Civil Code, the consent to the adoption will be given by the guardian of the child, and the guardian is usually appointed by the court as a body of socio-legal protection for children. Even an adopted child under the age of 12 will be heard by the court and taken into account by reference to the degree of his mental development. The court will have to follow the best interests of the family in its decision-making. Finally, I would like to say that the Czech Republic would not introduce any world news by adopting this proposal. There are a number of countries where adoption of a child is possible. For example, I will mention Finland, Spain, Sweden, Great Britain, Austria and others. Slovenia and Estonia, for example, allow them from post-communist countries. Moreover, the survey of the Center for Public Opinion Research shows that the Czech Republic is also ready for recognition of identical sex families. According to the census carried out in June 2014, 58 per cent of people support the possibility of adopting a partner's child. I would like to ask for your approval and your support for all the petitioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u7	Thank you, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, as a translator's representative, and I ask the rapporteur, Lukáš Pleticha, for his intelligence report. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u8	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, fellow Members, we have heard the report on House press 320, which dates back to the summer of two years ago. At this point, I would like to introduce you to the current developments, because even if all that was said here by the Vice-Presidents' representative was true, the legislative developments were also somewhat advanced at the time, and this was the very issue decided by the Constitutional Court less than a month ago, which concluded at the plenary session and the decision so that the section 13 para. The date of publication of this finding in the Collection of Laws shall be deleted from Act 115/2006 on Registered Partnerships. This means that the moment this finding is actually published, the whole obstacle that today is going to be dealt with by this will fall away, and thus this law will become redundant. So I would consider whether the petitioners would withdraw this press or reject it, because it will really be useless within a few days. And what you actually want to correct, what you've put forward, it's all going to be actually redundant, and it's already solved. So much from my side at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u9	I thank the rapporteur for the intelligence report, in which he has probably made clear to a number of colleagues, including the plaintiffs, the current legal situation following the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic. Of course, it's up to the plaintiffs whether they withdraw the proposal or... [[A deal off the mic.]] But I have to open the debate after the news report, and I am opening it. The first entry is Mrs Jana Hnyková for the debate. Mrs Nina Nováková will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will approach this amendment as it was submitted two years ago, because even what the rapporteur has presented to us here will have to be regulated. If that paragraph is redundant, it will still have to go through the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to share my view of this novel. When representatives of the Platform for Equality, Recognition and Diversity - PROUD approached us in the Committee on Family, Equal Opportunities and National Minorities and asked us to support and take over their proposal to adopt a child by the same-sex parents, my first question was when the child was adopted, what would happen when the registered partnership fell apart. And I have been assured that the amendment proposal states that, after the termination of the partnership, the provisions on parental responsibility after the divorce of the marriage will apply, which is provided for in Section 13a para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In such a case, it will be done in the same way as in the case of divorce. In the event of termination of the partnership, the court will first have to decide which parent will continue to care for the child. The court will have to follow the best interests of the child in its decision unless the parents agree, and this is a very important provision for me. [[17.40 hours]] I know that this amendment creates different emotions and attitudes of citizens on this issue, and very often this adoption is confused with the adoption of a foreign child, which we must distinguish. The proposed provision of § 13a allows a registered partner to adopt the child of his partner, a partner similar to a husband can adopt the child of his wife. This is not, therefore, an adoption as a form of foster family care. And once again, I must draw attention to the responsibility of parents towards my child. Not only do they have the right to raise a child... [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Mr President, I understand that my colleague and colleague are not interested in raising children, but I would like to share this opinion with you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u11	I will try, Madame. [[Messenger. - Thank you.]] Once again, I ask my colleagues to bring the discussions that are not related to this press into the lobby, and if they want to join the debate, they have the opportunity, because the debate is open. We can hold on just a little longer. I'm gonna try to cancel one line on the right. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u12	Thank you. I'll start this paragraph all over again so you can have it in one piece. I must draw attention to the responsibility of parents to my child. Not only do they have the right to raise a child but also to care for him, and this leads to parental responsibility, and so will the same sex parents. The proposed provision will allow a registered partner or partner to legally adjust the relationship with a child who, usually since birth, actually raise, nourish and love to have the right to information at school, about the state of health, but also to deal with survivor's proceedings in the event of the death of one of the partners. Very often I hear objections that this does not correspond to the traditional family. Yes, it is a different kind of family model and we focus on variations that occur in our society, when a single parent takes care of a child, for example, a child grows up in a multigenerational family, raises a child with unmarried couples or couples with one parent living abroad. And none of the models automatically leads to a child having any pathological development or significant dysfunction. I often hear that children will miss a male or female role model. But they are responsible parents - and I stress responsible - who will lead their children to shape their own opinion and guide them to help them find patterns in their surroundings through contacts with different relatives, friends, and peers of children. You know, I believe that if a child grows up in an environment where people like him, people who have a loving relationship with each other, functioning communication, share good, see also natural signs of discomfort and problem solving. That's what's best for the child's development. After all, these parents will not do anything special, they will take care of the household, care, and upbringing. They're gonna go shopping, sharing housework, bringing kids into circles, making money, paying bills, going to visit. They also argue and reconcile or express feelings. Since children in identical sex families are planned, they are more functional in family life. In particular, families of lesbian mothers have achieved significantly more points in comparative research as regards cooperation and family well-being. Hundreds of researches carried out for more than 30 years have shown that children with identical sex parents do not benefit worse or have less discipline. The only difference between these children in researching these children is a higher degree of tolerance -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u13	My colleague, I will interrupt you once more and I will really ask the House for peace. I think that, over a rather advanced hour, we can each have enough respect for the one who speaks. If you have other discussions, please really in the foyer! No one's forcing you to be here. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u14	The only difference between these children in research is a higher degree of tolerance and sensitivity to discrimination. According to research with teenage or adult children who grew up with parents of the same sex, children do not perceive their families as abnormal. One of you might argue that children are at risk of being bullied by other children. Then it is necessary to ask whether it is the child's problem, or those parents, that they perceive them negatively, as well as the society and school environment of children in general. And we can change that by our attitude, for example, to this amendment to the law. posměšek and bullying in children's collectives can have any reason. Either the baby's too smart, fat, or glasses, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a first reading amendment here. I would ask you to be released for second reading, and I would call on you to think calmly about this amendment and, above all, to bear in mind the interest of the child and parents, even though the same sex, how they want to be responsible for raising and caring for the child. I still think this amendment is a better solution than what's going on with the media now, when Secretary Marksová promotes the insemination of a woman without the consent of a man. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u15	Thank you, Mrs Jana Hnyková, and with a point of fact, Mr Roman Procházka is registered. [[Wrong.]] No? So I'm erasing. Mr Štěpán Stupčuk's point of fact, and then Jaroslav Borka's colleagues. And once again, I ask the House for peace. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we should not overlook the fact that the rapporteur said that there is a finding of the Constitutional Court. As far as I understand its content and importance well, the Constitutional Court's finding actually removes the legislative obstacle to the specific regulation in relation to the general regulation contained in the Civil Code. In other words, if the Constitutional Court's finding is valid, the obstacle to specific legislation, the Act on Registered Partnerships, and all single sex couples will be in the regime of general legislation of the Civil Code and will have the same rights as both sex couples. We can have different views on this, whether it is a good thing or not, in any case, it is not possible to talk about anyone being discriminated against in such a legal situation. I'm just saying this because maybe we can save ourselves the difficult discussion, we don't have to look for any other special legislation that might eventually result in a minority here having more rights than a majority society of both sexes. In other words, I'm saying that municipal regulation (?) The code is sufficient and sufficiently covers the rights of single sex couples. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u17	Thank you. Now, Mrs Nina Nováková in the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, some previous speakers have already said that this proposal is partly unnecessary. I'll try to add another aspect to that. We're talking about a couple of the same sex making a registered partnership. It's like we forgot about it when it was discussed in the House years ago, I wasn't here, but I followed the case, so then these couples said, "This is the last thing we want." We want to be somehow full members of society in that we want to prove that we are able to enter into permanent partnerships. That's one aspect. And now it seems to me from the debates that are needed on Facebook, etc., I realize that there is a mistake here. [[17.50 hours]] This proposal addresses a situation where people live together in a registered partnership and one of them is the biological parent - the biological parent of the child. The other, along with him, when he lives in the same household, is viewed as being viewed as a person close to him as having obligations toward the child, according to the Civil Code. That means maintenance duties, an obligation to raise him. And I, because I'm from education, have become accustomed to being cautious - as my colleague Hnyková here talks about free being a parent, to me she's still a parent as a biological parent, and then there's someone I can love very much because she's raising me. And it's de facto like my mother, de facto like my father. Now again, let's get back to this situation. At school, because there is confusion about who the biological parent is, etc., we used to use the concept of legal representative. This is the one who, as Mrs Hnyková said, is responsible for raising and providing adequate care for the child. This legal representative is owned by information from the school, etc. and treats him as if he were a parent in quotes. He's a legal representative. And when people live in a registered partnership, one of them is a biological parent, the other has a status that is actually equal to a legal representative, or a person who has a duty to that child, is a close person, so if there's any chance that the biological parent dies, for example, the person close to the child will definitely be the first person in the game to adopt the child. And now here we are, the Constitutional Court find. There it was, and it really was a little unbalanced, that a person who, let's say, is sexually oriented to the same sex could adopt a child when he lived alone. But not when he lived in a registered partnership. And that's what it was now in the Constitutional Court's decision. But now we're really talking about something else. We really don't need it. He who lives in a permanent partnership, cares for the child, is responsible for his upbringing, is responsible for his nutrition, is actually in the same position as the legal representative. That is why it is really unnecessary to interfere with the fact that a child simply has a biological father and a biological mother, and then, of course, there may be other people raising him. Please also note that this does not contrast at all - the child grows up in a registered couple, a household where the couple is registered, and grows up in institutional care. And here, when we tell the child better, that he lives in a home, in a loving environment, it's not about that either. It's just that, and I'm sorry, I still think we're living in a society where I'm weird that Father and Mother will be in the section, and there'll be a gentleman, and there'll be two ladies in the section of Father and Mother. I don't think we really need it yet, and it's not against the child's interest. Therefore, please, let us not support this, even if it is a well-intentioned proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u19	Now I have a series of factual points. Mrs Jana Lorencová's first factual point. He will prepare himself with a second factual remark by Štěpán Stupčuk. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u20	Mr President, colleagues, I must begin by saying that I have a number of friends among the otherwise oriented, i.e. sexual couples. I know them intimately, and I can say that they live in order, others split up. But it's not that important. What I mean is, do you think that we here in the 21st century, when none of our ancestors thought of it, are we smart enough to decide these things? Do you think we have the puvour to decide whether a boy or a girl will tell one of the parents - in quotes - the same sex mommy, whom he will call Daddy, how he will explain it to his classmates! Where are we, what are we dealing with here? [[With emphasis:]] How dare we! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u21	Thank you, Mrs Lorencová. Now the factual comment of colleague Stupčuk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u22	I would like to take a factual point to respond to my previous speaker, Mrs Nováková, because I feel that we are getting a little mixed up in these terms and interpretations of what these terms mean. Of course he's a parent, he's clearly a biological link to a child. And at the same time, he's usually the legal guardian. But, of course, someone else can be legal counsel. Whether he's an adopter or just a grandmother if he doesn't have etc. So let's just get this straight. At the same time, however, the partner who lives in the single sex relationship is not automatically the legal representative of the child. He is not at all gifted with any rights and obligations to the child, although he can actually support it or not. This can only happen if the parent delegate part of his parental rights and obligations to the partner who shares a common household with him. Then, for example, he can prove himself to be the delegated exercise of parental rights when he goes to pick up the child at school or elsewhere. So I'd like to disprove what's been said here that the partner is automatically gifted with the legal rights to the child. And so I point out completely at the end and repeat it again, the general regulation in the Civil Code is absolutely sufficient, it is non-discriminatory, and I think that we should not be dealing with anything here by some special law, because we would again be creating special regimes here, derogations that might prove to be discriminatory in the finals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u23	I thank Mr Stupčuk for his time on the point of fact. Another factual point by Mr Jiří Zlatuška, will be prepared with a factual remark by Mr Pavel Plzák. I ask the House for peace. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I, on what Mrs Nováková said here, when she said: on the one hand, this child is living in that partnership with the appropriate representation, etc. and, on the other hand, institutional care, and then, she made it clear that no special arrangement was needed. So I would point out that even if this were true here, it wouldn't be true the moment the parent dies and the situation changes. In that case, the other partner remains without any relation to the child, and the institution that Mrs Nováková pointed to will become the home of the child. It's for the child's stability. It's necessary to create an environment in which this really works here. And while I'm here, I'd like to make a note of whether we're creating institutes that haven't been here in hundreds of years. A hundred, 200 years ago, it was absolutely impossible for a woman, for example, to get a college education so that they could say "Mrs. Doctor" or something. It would also seem impossible. Still, it's changed, and there's nothing weird about it today. Don't worry about changing this tradition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u25	Thank you, my colleague Zlatušek. Now, Mr Pavel Plzák, Mrs Helena Válková will prepare herself. Everyone with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u26	Thank you, Mr President. But I think that my colleague Zlatuška is wrong, because when a biological father dies in a registered partnership, a social worker should evaluate conditions and recommend things in the best interests of the child. And recommend the court to decide. That doesn't mean that any child whose biological father dies or a biological parent in a registered partnership goes to an institution immediately. I don't think that's true. [[18.00 hours]] And the second thing is the confusion of the concepts here in Babylon. So the truth is, I haven't dealt with it, but now, as I hear the debate - you mean, the question of the petitioner, that two women living in a lesbian couple, one biological mother of a child, a biological father will agree to adopt the other woman's child, the "father" box will include the female name? Imagine that this child, as long as it's small, nothing happens, but then he'll be fourteen, fifteen, and they'll say, "Who's your daddy?" And he says, "Vlasta Nováková." [[Laughs in the hall.]] That's got to be pretty traumatic for that kid. I don't know. Maybe he'll report to that biological father he had before.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I shall make an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Petr Adam from 17.45 apologizes until the end of the day. The words will be taken by Mrs Helena Válková on a point of fact and I will pass on the proceedings of the meeting. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I would just like to join the votes of the more conservative possible Members who think that what we are discussing here has been partially resolved at least in the essential part that we are discussing here, the finding of the Constitutional Court, and that a number of these discussions are therefore unnecessary. And then I would like to support my previous speaker, through you, Mr Plzák, because we all really know a lot of divorce disputes and we know that the courts, especially now not automatically, do not confide in the biological father, but always find out the specific circumstances of the child, and the good old principle of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which, of course, the Czech Republic is bound that it must be in the child's interests. So the case that was quoted here that a biological mother might die, and that lesbian partner would be interested in raising a child who grew up with her for ten years, of course, is not at risk of lack of regulation. And I doubt that the court would order the child in such a case, or decide for the benefit of the biological father. So behind me - I've looked at the discovery as well - I think we're discussing unnecessary adjustments that aren't necessary here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u29	Thank you. Those were factual remarks. I would now like to see Mrs Nytrová's microphone with a proper application for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I join the view of conservative Members. I've shielded a petition against the adoption of children to homosexuals. I am fundamentally opposed to the amendment to the Registered Partnership Act, which would allow registered couples to adopt their counterpart's child if only one parent is mentioned in the birth certificate, or if his other parent does not care for the child and gives consent to the child's adoption. The registered partnership law passed only one vote in 2006 because the undecided part of the Members were assured that homosexual couples would not make any further demands. Today, we see that they have failed to keep their promise and are now demanding the adoption mentioned. Promises of mistakes, you won't grieve with promises. As regards registered partnerships, it is necessary to draw attention to one fact. As has already been said, it is not true that if the child's biological parent dies, this child is automatically placed in a child's home. Today's court practice confirms that if the child's biological father died, then the child of a homosexual partner is given up to parenting a surviving partner who would become a foster parent or guardian if it was in the best interests of the child. It follows that the law of adoption sought by lawmakers is absurd from this point of view. In these specific situations, there would be only a few exceptional cases from a practical point of view and, as follows, they can be satisfactorily resolved within the framework of current legislation. However, the main aspect of this problem lies in a completely different reality. It opens up the possibility that all people applying to the homosexual way of life will be able to adopt a child. And the petition I have shielded is precisely to defend the interests of those who cannot defend themselves - the rights of innocent children. It is our duty to strive to create the best conditions for raising a child and not to create other alternatives that can never replace the basic cell of a family that is made up of one father and one mother. On the other hand, by creating new, alternative options, we can easily reach a greater challenge and gradual dilution of the family's basic model. This model must be respected, protected by it, to remain a solid pillar of our society. A well - known fact remains that homosexual couples are in the vast majority characterised by a high form of promiscuity that is many times higher than normal heterosexual couples. This means that there is certainly no way to talk about a stable environment in which a child should grow up. This is confirmed by many homosexuals themselves, or the marches themselves of the pride of marches. [[Sprayed]] In this case, we can talk more about reckless experimentation on children than about sincere efforts to defend the rights of these easily vulnerable children. I want to stress that this petition and my speech are not directed against homosexuals as such. It is directed against the absurd legalization of the adoption of children by these couples. The homosexual lobby seeks to sneak up on centuries of proven model, a functioning family model. From the homolobby side, this is a systematic way to change the functioning of our society. For us, deterrent cases could be practices from Great Britain, France, Holland and Nordic countries. We have discussed practices in Norway several times in the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u31	My colleague, I'm so sorry, but I'll ask my colleagues if they have anything to say to each other to do in the lobby. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u32	Thank you. So we discussed the so-called House of Commons on several occasions. Norwegian children and what practically exist in Norway these days. And I think this is a deterrent case for all of us. We're not somewhere in the beginning. We can learn from practice in other countries. What is the specific practice of introducing homosexual families? Homolobby has several stages that it meets according to its programme. First, gay marches. He's getting negative reactions. They call themselves a oppressed group and need their protection. When they have anti-discrimination laws, they want a registered partnership, allegedly due to the simplification of legal standards, cohabitation complications, health information. The next step, when they have registered partnerships, they want to adopt children. First they adopt a biological partner's children and then they want to adopt children from children's homes. They also want artificial insemination, which is covered by health insurance. And when they can adopt children, suddenly there's a condition that there are few adoptable children in society, so they have to get them somewhere. And that's how juvenile justice practices begin. Starts taking children away from heterosexual couples. I'm sure all of you are getting e-mails from the so-called Russian mathematicians who document exactly in their emails how many women have been stolen from children in Norway for absolutely meaningless reasons. So these are practices that we can learn from. [[18.10 hours]] This, of course, is reflected in the requirements for sexual education and homosexual education to be given to schools, and the age of children who are involved in these practices and in this teaching of acquainting is reduced. Finally, the final step is to promote age reduction for sexual intercourse. Homosexuals will try to make sex with children happen. [[There are screams in the room.]] I'm talking about how it actually works in some countries. The risk factors of children's lives in homosexual families that may be exposed, children raised by homosexual couples - there is a high promiscuity, high incidence of sexual and other diseases, an above-average tendency to alcohol and drugs compared to heterosexual societies, a higher incidence of mental and mental disorders, a significantly shorter age of survival, a significantly higher incidence of violent behavior in homosexuals. Dear colleagues, I am convinced of this, and I recognise the human dignity of all, but I refuse to change the laws of nature and nature. I believe that only a man can produce, and only a woman can give birth, and therefore only a man and a woman can become parents. I'm sure the foundation of every society is a proper and stable family. A man and a woman are biologically different in their body structure and have different social roles. Therefore, I do not agree with the amendment to the Act on Registered Partnerships and I propose that this amendment be rejected. I realise that it is essential to protect the interests of innocent children in particular and to seek the best and stable conditions for raising a child and not to create alternatives that can never replace the family's basic model. Why do we not address the issue of family support and motherhood in the importance of starting families? Why isn't the family committee dealing with how to help today's families, today's marriages, and today's crises? Why are we spraining our laps? Why do we insist on equality between men and women? For both men and women are equal, but each of them has different physiological and biological advantages. Support for my family is not the creation of forest kindergartens, children's groups and so on. Family support is so that women can stay with their children as long as possible and give them their care and love and not be forced to start work first. This is the right support for my family. So I'm fighting to renew my marriage, and I propose that this amendment be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u33	Thank you. I'm recording three factual points. First to the microphone of Mr Dolejš, Mr Stupčuk and then Mr Šrámek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u34	We've got 45 minutes until 7:00. Although this point certainly does not change the Czech Republic's operation, it has provoked a debate that is not entirely surprising. I experienced this when we were discussing the law on registered partnerships, and I confirm one thing - that we are all somehow formed and not always given by confesies, i.e. by faith, or by partyism, which confirms, after all, that civilization development from the Middle Ages to the 21st century did not always go straight, it didn't always go straight, but sometimes the winding way, and it takes a while for some things to simply pass through consciousness not only of individuals, but of society. But it's okay. After all, such a Catholic country as Spain has this proposed model. That's the first point. Second note, the child's interest. The child's interest is primarily to grow up in some conditions where people like him. And frankly, a heterosexual dad or a mom who drinks, who is aggressive with the baby, is a much worse parent than the one who marries a homosexual partner of a biological parent. I think so. And in case any of my grandchildren or great-grandkids get into this situation, I believe that I will make decisions based on the interest of this child and not on certain floscules. One final point. It makes sense to discuss the law, which is why I don't think we have to reject it now, even if the majority decides. Of course. But the Constitutional Court has only lifted a certain problem, a discriminatory barrier, but as you hear from different legal opinions here, the situation, the situation of a real parent, even if adopted, is far from being settled, and that is the point, after all. And maybe that's what some people instinctively respond to, because they don't like this. But I think that too is a legitimate step, and I think that it is worth discussing at second reading, and so please support it so that we can continue to act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u35	Thank you. I beg you, Mr Stupčuk, in fact. Mr. Šrámek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u36	Thank you. I think that what we should bear in mind when discussing this bill is what we have in the Constitution and in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, that people are equal in rights and obligations regardless of skin color and gender. In this case, the criterion for assessment is gender. I say that there is no discrimination and a barrier in the current legislative situation and our legal order. That's why the law is useless at the moment. I understand the reasons of the petitioner when he was proposed in a situation where the matter was not brought before the Constitutional Court. She can't stand the argument of the death of one of the two parents, because by analogy, a heterosexual couple may find herself in the same situation, where mom divorced her husband x years ago, found another partner, married him, but parental rights have been preserved by the original father, even though they live happily together for ten or fifteen years, mom dies, but the parent's parental rights are but the original father, while the child is being raised long ago and emotionally bound to the other father. And this is a situation in which, of course, the lesbian couples or couples of two men can find themselves. Please don't look for a solution to this problem here. We should look for this solution, if necessary, in family law, in the general regulation of the Civil Code. And Professor Válková said so here. This criterion is always sensitive to the court's assessment of what is in the best interests of the child. But to accept some special arrangements, legislation, and to do some complex architecture here, I warn you about it, because we would eventually find that we are discriminated against and disadvantaged by the majority heterogeneous society. And please keep this in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u37	Thank you for keeping the time limit. I note four further factual points - Mr Šrámek, Mr Černoch will be prepared, then Mrs Hnyková will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u38	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. You know I move not only between humans but also between animals and plants. I know the meaning of a single-sex flower or a crop, but could someone explain to me what single-sex parents are? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u39	Thank you. Now, please, to Mr. Černoch's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u40	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this proposal is about making children better. It is not a proposal that should address some new mechanisms. I myself am a supporter of the traditional family. I think the Norwegian authorities' behaviour is absolutely scandalous in the process of taking children. I do not want to get used to the new mechanisms that Mr Zlatuška, a colleague of yours, has said, through what we should get used to. I won't get used to the fact that some local politician gets whipped by reprimands and thinks it's normal. I don't think that's normal. But here's the proposal for the good of the children. It's for the good of the kids, and I think any other discussion is a little off. And I think that he would definitely deserve this proposal to be released for second reading and discussed there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u41	Thank you. Now, please get to Mrs. Hnyková's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u42	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to respond to my previous speaker, Mrs Nytrová, through you, Madam President. When she was talking about the committee, I've been going to the committee pretty regularly. We're talking about family, how the conditions should be improved. [[18.20 hours]] I have to go back again. After all, it is not for the Commission to prepare legislation to support the family. It's your Madam Secretary who should do the best she can. That's why now that I hear it here, it's very startling for me, and I have to point it out, because I think things should come out of there, from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. And we also point out in the Committee on Social Policy that the support of families should be much larger. And I'm talking about a traditional family. There's been a debate here today. It concerns children with parents, who - as a colleague here said - have the same sexuality - it's simplified to know who we're talking about. But I think that even these children deserve attention and legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u43	Thank you and please to the microphone with Mr Fiedler's factual remark. Mr Jakubčík will be ready. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u44	Good evening. Thank you for the floor. Please, colleagues, let's listen to our fellow attorneys who probably know what they're saying. I am thinking, in particular, of Mr Stupčuk's colleague. We've been dealing with this point for a long time. Everyone gets stuck in the cares of the child, the cares of the children, or the care of the children. I totally agree with that. Why don't we give this time to other children's worries. They don't know how to pay rent, how to buy school supplies for their children. Why don't we take care of the 10 percent of the kids whose parents don't have lunches at the party? We would have used the time we're wasting on this nonsense much better!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u45	Thank you. Now, please, to Mr Jakubčík's microphone. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u46	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to my colleague, Černoch, through you. We're here to argue, or some here say that we should convince our Islamic fellow citizens, possibly the people of Islam (?) who come to us to obey our laws, that they must obey our laws. Everything under our laws. I don't understand one thing. Why is it constantly taken to the mouth of Norway? Why are we measuring double standards? If someone doesn't follow the law in the country where they live, they're punished for it. This means that the example of Norway and children is exactly the same as the example of the Czech Republic and let's say Islam (?). It's the same thing. We want the Czech laws to be respected, but when Norwegian laws are to be followed, there is shouting, there is a call, petitions are written, everything is done. Let us obey the laws and let other states obey their laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u47	Thank you. Those were factual remarks at the moment. Now, please, to the microphone with the priority right of Minister Marksová, Mr Mihola will be prepared. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u48	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, Members, I am on the same side as one of the previous speakers, Mrs Nytrová, and I feel a really great need to say here that I am completely distancing myself from what she has said. I don't want to fluently speak for half an hour or 45 minutes, one by one, to disprove what was said from her mouth. But I'm really convinced - how long I've been working in this business - that a lot of this nonsense has been really long. Otherwise, I wanted to say that it is really important for me personally that these children grow up in a family that loves them. Whether this family is complete and so-called traditional or incomplete. And that's the Czech reality. We can't just target a traditional family because half the families here aren't traditional. Because they're single parents. That's just the situation. Like it or not. Or if the family is with two parents who are the same sex. I think the term is pretty clear. I don't give a shit. It's really important to me that the baby is safe, that she has her parents, whoever she is, likes her, and those parents liked the baby. That's what I think is going on here. I personally know a few of these couples, by chance. I really happened to walk through life, so I just met these guys. I know the kind where there are two men and a child. I know the kind where there are two women and a child. And I just want to help them when there's a bad situation, so we can be sure that the baby will be in a comfortable situation. Because the decision-making of both the courts and our OSPODs can be very ununited. There may be some relatives who will say yes, but we're a heterosexual family here, we want the baby. Yet the child has seen them very rarely in his life and just doesn't want to live with them. He's used to the other one, like a non-nebological parent - when something happens to the biological one. I really want to guarantee that a child who is accustomed to that particular family is okay, that no one hurts him. And I think we should all be thinking about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u49	Thank you. We will now deal with three factual points so far. With the first, please, to the microphone of Mr. Mr. Černoch. Minister Jurečka and Mr Fiedler will be ready after him. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u50	Thank you. Maybe a minute is enough for me. I am only by your help to Jakubčík. You've been looking at me the whole time, but your party colleague started with Norway. But it's true. Yes, let them abide in Norway by the laws they have there. Let the Nor keep them. No one has the right to tell the Nor what laws they're supposed to have. That's their business. On the other hand, the laws that are in Norway and the parameters that are set in Norway, so I think they should not be here, in the Czech Republic. And unfortunately, it is within some organizations that are - and I think that the example of Michalákův's children is a clear example of this. When he's been trying to get his kids back the whole time. And the way it goes, I guess everyone knows.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u51	Thank you. Now please get to the microphone of Minister Jurečka. Mr. Fiedler will be ready. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u52	Thank you. Madam President, dear colleagues, this debate is quite long here and I will try to be very brief. I would like to follow up on Minister Marksová that it is not only important that she be a loving family, a loving parent, but also a family that is well-maintained and that sets good role models into the lives of those children. There are other aspects that we should consider. And they weren't mentioned here. So I would very much like us not to weaken the traditional family that we talk about so often, that the family is the foundation of the state. Let us not make further arguments on how to send this family into an ever worse situation in society. And maybe it would also be good if those children's interests were argued in this way, please, nicely - and there is often talk of children who are in children's homes. Did anyone ask them? Does the ministry or the petitioner have any study that they would rely on the fact that these children really want to be adopted and raised in such unions? I didn't hear anything like that in the discussion. As long as these things are not actually verified, let us not be enchanted by the fact that such a form of adoption is good for the child. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u53	Thank you. I beg you, Mr Fiedler, in fact. Mr Kudela and Mr Ondráček will be ready after. All factual points. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u54	Thank you, Minister Jurečka, for the recording. I mean the word in a good way, Minister. And now for Secretary Marksová. You were here, Madam Secretary, saying a little while ago, so I'm gonna repeat it one more time into that mic, just for the sake of the kids. You're the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Then let's do something for the socially needed children. Let's do something for you, as my colleague Dolejš said - now I don't see him here. Classic married couple father woman. A man pays tribute to alcohol, a woman would like to provide him with a peaceful home without arguing, without screaming. He can't. [[18.30 hours]] She can't afford to live alone, she can't afford to leave the child's mother often because it's not economically accessible to her. She can't afford to buy an apartment, or she can't afford to buy expensive rent, because as a single or a woman who works, her husband doesn't, he works at the register for a few bucks, he can't afford it. This is what we should be dealing with. We should deal with these social cases. I'm gonna say it again. And one more thing. How many cases like this? Ten percent of kids whose parents don't have enough to pay for lunch. What are the number of children? What are we doing here? Is this related to what segment of the company? How many of those gay couples are there, how many of those gay couples are gonna meet the case that one of those parents is gonna die and have to deal with each other? [[With a strong voice:]] It's a small percentage! That's what we're dealing with here! That's what we're dealing with! And by how many thousands, 10,000 children live in difficult conditions, that's not what we're dealing with here!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u55	I'm going to ask my colleagues not to shout, and everything is heard enough. It is a very quivering subject, but I think we should still manage to keep our emotions at bay. I will now ask Mr Kudela's microphone with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not from the same side as Mrs Nytrová, but I am from the same region. I agreed with her words, though she was too strong for my taste. I believe that if children's homes and nursing homes were empty, if there were no children, then we do not have to deal with this bill either. Madam Secretary, really, let us make sure that families want children who come into the world to come into an environment that is happy to receive them, and that children are not put away in infant homes and foster homes, and then we do not have to deal with these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u57	Thank you. And now, please, to Mr Ondráček's microphone, also to a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, as usual, I did not want to speak at all on this matter, but what the Minister mentioned here either confirms me that you have never seen a new Civil Code in your life, or at least you haven't read it. Because if you do, you can never let what you're saying out of your mouth. Please read the new Civil Code, the alternative family education institutes, and you will see that the current legislation regulates this enough. And if you want to make a special law for your x friends who live in this union, and that's why you're taking time to deal with some of the more important things here, then remember why you may not be willing to answer my interpelation for more than five weeks or five meetings of the House on Thursday, as far as the alternative family education institute is concerned, when foster parents are waiting for the so-called. a free child for over two years. And you're not able to do anything about it, because you're just doing business with these kids, and you like having them in those institutions. So please, let's look into the new Civil Code and stick to the code that's there, because the adjustment is sufficient and meets all the needs of the child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u59	Thank you. Let me load two apologies. From 18.30 to the end of today's day, for personal reasons, Mrs Matušovská apologizes and Mr Pavera apologizes for today's meeting between 18.00 and 19.00 for personal reasons as well. Now please, with priority rights to Mr Mihola's microphone, after him Minister Dienstbier. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the KDU-ČSL Club was convinced before this debate that the current legislation was sufficient, and finally the Constitutional Court's finding confirmed it here. I would also like to stress that some here about ten years ago, those who have been here, we have all not been here, have heard sworn statements that this is only a registered partnership and no further steps, efforts and efforts will follow. So here we can see how some promises, vows, and I don't know what everything is. Unfortunately, there's no such thing as trust. The interest of the child is first for KDU-ČSL, while there is no right to adopt. The authors of the law did not state in what they believe the current legislation is insufficient to protect the rights of children living with registered partners. As far as the death of a biological parent is concerned, it is now possible for the surviving spouse to adopt it if it is in the child's interest. As far as the obligation to participate in the child's education is concerned, parents already have it today if they live in a common home. To this end, it must be added that the bill comes soon before the elections, without proper social debate. The debate last took place in the adoption of the law on the said registered partnership, and, as I have already said, the lawyers specifically assured at that time that in the field of child education, this proposal is not intended to compete with marriage. The attempt to adopt children by a partner in a gay couple is an attempt to break through this consensus with a vision of further progress and thus a salami method to bring the registered partnership of the marriage institute closer. In contrast to the right of adoption, which is not enshrined anywhere, the privileged status of a family made up of a man and a woman protects Article 32 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. The proposal submitted relativizes this position of the family. The argument that also said that the traditional family is still at risk is certainly not a reason for us to strike another politically motivated blow. Ladies and gentlemen, I am making a motion to reject this bill and please support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u61	Thank you. I am now registering two factual points. First to the microphone, please, Mrs Nytrová, Mr. Zlatuška will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u62	Minister Jurečka here asked if there was any analysis or analysis of whether those children from the children's homes wanted to enter into a homosexual partnership under any conditions before staying in a foster home. Such an analysis, such questions were submitted in Slovakia. Children from children's homes were not allowed to be asked about children who are in a children's home, so those who asked adults who left their homes would prefer a children's home or a homosexual family. And the kids said it was a children's home. So this analysis has already been done here, and the kids that came out of the foster home, so they all answered, there was no percentage, but they all replied that they would rather grow up in a foster home than in a homosexual relationship.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u63	Thank you. Now, please, to Mr Zlatuška's microphone, Mrs Pastuchová, all factual points will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u65	I'm sorry, colleague, but I'm going to ask the House for some peace. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I was in the Senate at the time when the Act on Registered Partnership was adopted, expressing my positive opinion that I would have preferred it to be extended here in this way, so it is not entirely true that such voices did not speak. But I was watching the debate at the time, and I didn't see what my colleague Mihola was talking about. I didn't see anyone swearing. I believe that if someone was telling the story of oaths, it could have been that they were just people who had visions. I highly doubt that someone was in that state of oath.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u67	Thank you. Now, please, to Mrs Pastuchová's microphone, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u68	Thank you. I would just repeat here as a colleague. Nytrová through Madam President, so did Mr Mihol. We're not talking about adopting children from institutional care and from an institution. It's the adoption of children to couples who live together. This isn't what we're talking about here about the constitutions and the adoption of foreign children by gay couples. We're talking about something else here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u69	Thank you. Now please get to the microphone with the priority right of Minister Dienstbier. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u70	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, I am here only for part of the debate, and I must say that it also says that some of the Members present probably did not even read the bill and have no idea what they are discussing. What has already been said here is the first point that I wanted to make, that the law does not concern the adoption of children who are in institutions, but only children who already live in families formed by a couple of parents of the same sex, when one of the couple is the biological parent of the child. So it's a reality that already exists in our society. This law doesn't want to create it. This law only accepts reality and aims to ensure that children in these families have the same rights as other children. For example, so that the other partner can pick up a child in kindergarten or in school so that he can access information on health matters, and yes, even in the extreme case that a biological parent dies, so that the child can have a relationship with the other partner, with whom he can have as strong a relationship as the biological parent who is able to provide the best possible conditions for the child in the home where the child lives with both partners. And because there's no legal relationship, the law really isn't about those kids getting married from institutions, but in this extreme case, the child who lives in such a family can end up in that institution, even though the original family and the biological parent would have the best conditions for their development. Likewise, outside reality, the remarks that argue against the law are found by the Constitutional Court from a few days ago, because even the Constitutional Court's finding does not affect at all the issue that the proposed law regulates. The founding of the Constitutional Court relates to a situation where a person of homosexual orientation under the current legislation could, without limitation, adopt a child as an individual before the Constitutional Court's finding. That was true all along. At the same time, the Act on Registered Partnership adopted an amendment that the same person could not adopt the child at the moment he concluded the registered partnership. It has no rational basis. It is a restriction on rights which is not balanced by any other relevant interest which would allow such a restriction on rights. This was also clearly stated by the Constitutional Court. And this ban on individual adoption or adoption, however you want, is therefore abolished. He stated that it was discriminatory, that it denied the principle of equal treatment and that it was also an inadmissible intervention in the constitutional right to the protection of private life. And that's quite different from what's in the proposed law, because it doesn't concern individual adoption at all, but I'm going to say it in these words - to make the child a partner other than the biological parent, in the already existing family where the child is. This means that it is not about taking children out of institutional care, and it is not in any way related to the Constitutional Court's finding. On the other hand, it is necessary to respond to the Constitutional Court's finding, to adapt the rule of law to suit the Constitutional Court's finding. For this reason, we will also work on an amendment that will respond to the Constitutional Court's finding in the draft law which I submitted to the Government along with the Minister of Justice. Over the next week, the government should discuss this bill. The proposal contains both factually identical regulation with the present proposal, as well as a response to the Constitutional Court's finding, so that the regulation of registered partnership and adoption of children is consistent with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u71	Thank you. I'm registering six factual points. Mr. Kasal's microphone first, please. Mr. Fiedler will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me make a really practical point. Here it has been said and, through Madam President, Mrs Nytrová, I am sorry, but your speech has been very homophobic to me. I can tell you that the problem in health care, and my previous speaker said it's really big, because the kids that are lying there, you're all covering up for the kids, and that you want what's best for them, but the kids, if they're in the hospital with these particular couples, we can't give any medical information, we can't let the kids go home if the partner is sick or he's gone. We can, of course, ask the court. The court must respond within 24 hours. We're all talking about making hospital stays shorter, and this doesn't lead to that. And a margo of traditional families. Of course, I support her, too, and I think it's for the best. But I think we're all equal. But what I'd like to say is that there are statistics in the maternity wards where happy parents come from that 10 percent of children don't have their biological father.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u73	Thank you. Mr. Fiedler's microphone, please. Mr Schwarzenberg will be ready. All factual points. I'll ask my colleagues to keep their voices down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u74	Thank you, Madam President. I will follow the words of my fellow Member Kasal, who has said a certain point of view here. But most of all, I want to respond to what Minister Dienstbier said here. Through Madam President, Minister, when you want to pick up a child from the squad, you don't need this status here. Imagine that it is enough to report the names of the persons who can be picked up by the parent. For God's sake, let's not go crazy. Don't fool these people. Don't give me that nonsense! Please, I really can't. What my colleague Kasal said here, I'll take it. But what you said was total nonsense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u75	I would now like to address Mr Schwarzenberg's microphone on a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u76	Madam President, honourable Members, we have been instructed before that these are equal rights for children. I followed the debate, and I had the impression that this is about equal rights for adults, not children. But I guess I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u77	Thank you. I now ask for a factual remark from Mr Ondráček. Mr Korte will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u78	Thank you again, Madam President. I may be able to respond easily to Minister Dienstbier because it was nice and heartbreaking, but he already mentioned it to my colleague Fiedler. You really don't need to pick up a kid from school or a glee club, and that's where a delegation comes in and the school settles for it. So it's a power of attorney. If you want and live in a couple like this, you give the power of attorney, so that information can be provided to the particular person you put into power and into the legion, you'll also get the information. Or he gets the other guy out of the steam. And as long as we're talking about getting adopted later. There are other institutes of foster family education. If there is such a situation that a biological parent dies and the child remains so-called with the other partner, there is a warranty. That's for the quick help in the matter. Then there's foster care. I don't know why at all costs you want to get adopted. The relationship between the adopter and the adopter creates the same relationship as between parents and children. And the adopter is then written on the birth certificate of the adopted child. I said, who are you going to cross off? A dead mother and you write down the new woman, or instead of a father, you write to the lady who lived with the previous mother? It's just a little crooked. And we have the institutes, as I mentioned, under the current new Civil Code. Let's stick with them, and let's not come up with anything new here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u79	Thank you and please to Mr Korte's microphone and Mr Stupčuk will be ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u80	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to respond to Minister Dienstbier, who spoke for so long that I forgot the beginning and therefore did not understand the end. [[Laughs in the hall.]] However, I would like to ask him, Mr. Human Rights Minister, if he could define what a family is to me. Because it hasn't fallen down yet. Mr. Human Rights Minister, what is a family?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u81	Thank you. Mr Stupčuk's microphone, Mr Hovorka will now be ready. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u82	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, colleagues, we have been talking about this for the second hour and we are convinced that the law is either necessary or unnecessary. I have mentioned here the reasons for which I believe it is unnecessary, resulting from the fact that he was here and there is the quoted finding of the Constitutional Court. That means nothing went wrong here. Here the Constitutional Court merely said that homosexual couples should have exactly as many rights and obligations as everyone else has. And I am surprised to hear that a special law should be adopted here, which should be prepared as perhaps a government proposal for an amendment. So I'd like to hear the reasons, the legal reasons that should eliminate some kind of possible discrimination. Because at this point, I'm convinced there's no discrimination against gay couples at this point. And then I'm also curious about how you're going to argue with the kids that actually some kids are suitable for being adopted by homosexual couples, those are the ones that have one biological parent, and then there's the kids that can't adopt those homosexual couples. So I want to ask what is the legitimate reason for this disinstinction, because I believe that under the current general regulation of the Civil Code after the Constitutional Court's judicature, homosexual couples of rights have much more than that. Among other things, it's because they can adopt all those kids. Just like anybody else. Not just those with whom one of the partners is a biological parent. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u83	Thank you. I would now like to address Mr Hovorka's microphone on a point of fact. Mr Kalousek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u84	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to ask Minister Dienstbier to define what a family is because he had a problem with that at our parliamentary club and was unable to explain it to us. I would like to say that the proposed regulation breaks the meaning and purpose of traditional social institutes and links. The new institute of registered partnership was only recently incorporated into the legal system in 2005. And it was for repeated assurance that in the area of the main function of the family, which is raising children, it was not an institution competing with marriage. Just like my colleague Mihola said. This fact was subsequently reflected in the initial provisions of the Registered Partnership Act, which in Section 1 only refers to the communion of two persons of the same sex. This is undoubtedly a significantly different position from the Institute of Family, Parenthood and Marriage, which according to § 3 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) the new Civil Code benefit from special legal protection, which is further developed in Section 655 of the new Civil Code, according to which the main purpose of marriage is the establishment of a family, proper education of children and mutual support and assistance. It is difficult to interpret the proposed proposal from this point of view other than as an attempt to approximate the registered partnership of the marriage institute, despite the original sober legislative expectations linked to the registered partnership law itself. And just to remind you of 2005 and the law. In the explanatory memorandum in Section 13, the explanatory note states: The child's defence by registered partners, respectively. any partner in the duration of the partnership shall be prohibited. The reason for this is the preference of a child's replacement upbringing by a heterosexual couple. That is why I thank my colleague, too. Nytrová for her personal attitude and for her petition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u85	Thank you. I beg you, Mr Kalousek, in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u86	Thank you, Madam President. I want to be very brief, but also very clear. Mr Korte here asked a clear question and asked for the definition of family. Which I think is important, because all our political parties have family support in the program. We even have a family law. And if we're going to define it, some of us seem to have a bit of a problem with it. So I would like to say very clearly for TOP 09, the conservative party, that TOP 09 sees the family as a legitimate union between women and men who, if possible, raise children together. No alternative to this model. With all due respect and respect for all who cannot live in such a model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-015-053.u87	Thank you, honourable Member. At this point, I am interrupting this point. Please, just hold on a little longer. We need to deal with adjusting the program. At this point, we should vote on the proposal to exclude all outstanding points from the 48th meeting. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 233, to which 145 are registered, for 80, against 20. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. At this point, I am ending the 48th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and I wish you all a wonderful summer.
