ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u1	63. Government bill amending Act No. 96/2004 Coll., on the conditions of acquisition and recognition of competence for the performance of non-medical health professions and the pursuit of activities related to the provision of health care and amending certain related laws (law on non-medical health professions), as amended /German press 880/ - first reading I will ask the Minister of Health to present the proposal to us under the authority of the Government. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce a government bill amending the Act on non-medical health professions. The aim of the proposed legislation is, above all, to set up a legal framework which will allow the qualification education system for non-medical health professions to be stabilised. The related aim is to increase the attractiveness of education in these professions and thus contribute to increasing the number of the most sought-after non-medical health professionals in the Czech health care sector, which are general and child nurses. One way to achieve this goal is by introducing the penetration of study programmes for certain professions. However, the changes need to be set in such a way that the quality of education, which is one of the prerequisites for quality and safe provision of health care, is maintained. Now to the content of the proposal. In short, I will introduce fundamental changes regarding the adjustment of nurses' education. In particular, the Act extends the possibility of obtaining professional qualifications for the pursuit of the profession of a general nurse through an accelerated study at higher vocational schools. He will be able to enter this shortened study if he accepts admission procedures, a practical nurse. So far it is a profession of medical assistant, midwife, child nurse or medical paramedic. It will enable the pursuit of the profession of a practical nurse without professional supervision, which will contribute to its integration into a work multidisciplinary team, and will move the preparation for the profession of a child nurse from a specialization study to a qualification course that will take place at a higher medical school or accredited bachelor's study field. It will also be possible to obtain a short-term study in higher vocational schools. A practical nurse, midwife, general nurse or medical paramedic will be able to enter this study on the basis of the fulfilment of the entry conditions of the recruitment procedure. Further changes aim in particular to enable qualified workers to pursue their professions without professional supervision. The proposal removes the condition of three years of professional activity under professional supervision for a group of health professionals who have acquired professional competence to pursue the profession by studying a secondary medical school under previous legislation. The aim of this measure is to enable these health professionals, in case of interest, to return to the pursuit of the health profession more easily. The proposal will allow the profession of a physiotherapist without professional supervision, who has acquired the capacity to pursue the profession by secondary school studies, also after proving at least ten years of the profession of a physiotherapist. It has so far been subject to the pursuit of a profession without the professional supervision of a physiotherapist with the said education by obtaining specialised competence. The amendment removes the double-trackness of education for the profession of medical paramedic, by ending the education of this field at higher health schools. It will be possible to start a study at higher health schools for the last time in the school year 2018/2019. This step has been taken because labour market demand is currently being met and the capacity of bachelor's study programmes seems to be sufficient in the future. At the same time, it is proposed to extend the possibility of exercising the profession of a health care professional in inpatient facilities to an intensive care centre. An important institute is the introduction of training obligations if a health professional or other professional has long interrupted the exercise of a medical profession. Providing training will be within the competence of the employer, the health service provider. In addition, the credit system and the expertise card, which was intended to control lifelong learning, were not sufficiently motivated and were not effective. Nothing changes to the responsibilities of lifelong learning for all health professionals. By amendment of the Health Services Act, which came into force on 1. 7. The National Health Information System will also include a national register of health professionals in which all health professionals will be registered. Consequently, the current register of health professionals eligible for the exercise of a medical profession without professional supervision will be abolished. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this legislation will contribute to improving the access of health professionals to education in individual fields and thus to increasing their number. That is why I believe you will support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u3	Thank you, Minister. I now ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, to take the floor. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u4	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, forgive me for allowing myself to do something that does not belong here, but it has to do with discussing this very law. When I ran for the Chamber of Deputies in 2013, I had a class reunion with girls from the medical school every year before the elections. I had to promise them that if I made it to the House, I would try to initiate an amendment to the Act on Non-Doctors and, above all, change the way of education it was set up in 2004. I hope we can do that. Another promise was that if this law changes, I must say hello to my colleague from the counter and wave to them, so excuse me, but I will be happy to do this too. Hey, 4DS girls, 1984 senior year. I keep my promise. [[10.40 hours]] And now to the proposal for an amendment to the Act on Non-Doctors, Medical Occupations. I'm really happy for this novel. I believe we will be able to approve it by the end of our term of office. Although there are many different views and views on this amendment, I believe that it can bring about better changes. While we all know that this is not just about changing education and releasing some bureaucratic responsibilities, it is one step. Further steps, such as the regulation of competences, must go together with this amendment. And pay raises, that's what we talk about all the time. Let me briefly introduce the fundamental changes this amendment brings, although the Minister has taken this very closely. I think that the most discussed change will certainly be the change in the education system, which adopted the name four plus one. I'll try to bring her closer to you. Because it seems to me that there is only talk of Members wanting to degrade this job by abolishing higher education, this is not the case. This amendment only allows high school students after four years of their studies, where this study is aimed precisely at the pursuit of this profession, reduced one year's study at a higher vocational school to be able to work as a general nurse - that is, five years of training. Students from other secondary schools will continue their studies after graduating from higher vocational school or university, i.e. four years of general study, where they do not study at all, and then three years will be prepared professionally for this profession. I'm still trying to explain to everyone who's better prepared - a student with five years of targeted vocational training for this job, or a more mature person, but with a three-year professional focus? It is assumed that today's times are different and that today's children are still immature to decide on their ninth grade careers. Furthermore, that students of health schools are not what they used to be. I might agree with that. But whose fault is that? In some schools there are no entrance exams, schools are fighting for every pupil. And it's really weird and weird that everyone says there are other pupils and that it's no longer a prestigious school, but it's also interesting that students from these health schools continue at universities, for example. private, and they all pass. I therefore very much welcome the introduction of entrance exams in secondary schools. I was a member of a working group at the Ministry of Health in preparing this amendment. I also visited a year and a half or two years later in about six or seven regions, where I was speaking with the staff, with non-medical personnel. On purpose, however, I visited smaller hospitals, regional and district. They are very welcome to this novel in these smaller hospitals. I will not repeat here what the Minister has said, because I am sure he has read it all and there will be, I think, many and many discussions. Dear colleagues, although some organizations are under tremendous pressure not to accept this amendment, I beg you to submit and support to second reading. I'd like to ask you all to consider common sense as to whether every nurse needs a university education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u5	I thank the rapporteur, and I also greet the girls, and I open a general debate which Mr Leoš Heger was the first to join.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u6	Hello again, thank you for the floor. Minister, rapporteur, I must begin by saying that I consider the role taken by the Ministry and the rapporteur to be extremely complex, but it is valuable that they have embarked on this. Law 96/2004 did not go well and its implementation did not. One of the reasons why the law didn't work is because it's terribly fragmented, complex, it's very hard to understand. I remember from my practice in the hospital, how personalists and chief nurses were unhappy when they re-categorized all the staff, introduced shortcuts without supervision, supervised, and to this day many people know nothing about it. So the attempt to remedy is certainly well-intentioned, but as the rapporteur has already mentioned here, she has raised a huge debate among the sisters. Those sisters split into basically two parts, I don't dare say how big they are, but they're roughly sisters who are in regional hospitals, formerly district hospitals, and nurses who are in large and faculty hospitals. Of course, those large faculty hospitals are promoting a higher level of education. I have to acknowledge the argument that education could really be differentiated. There has always been a dispute over the degree of training of nurses and the ratio of the number of nurses with complete education, and the number of helpers - previously they were nurses, then the existing law introduced medical assistants, who today have a graduation, but minimal competence and are in practice not very busy, mainly because they cannot be in service, and the number of our nurses in the department is small, so no one wants those assistants very much. Sister could really be less. In other words, let me put it this way, it might be enough for the current situation if the nurses were more supportive of the helping staff. This is the way the countries gradually went west of us, but in our country we are actually going to choose quite frankly another way, and it is a return to the fact that the sisters will all be on the same level and the auxiliary staff will not rise very well. It is true that those people who are medical assistants today will be practical nurses and their education will not change and their competence will increase, so that they can work without supervision. But the question is, how many are going to be, because it's likely that the annual training course at a higher vocational school, which will make them a general nurse, will be very attractive, and most of them, most of them who graduate, will eventually report to the general nurse. I still have to say that the law, in its two paragraphs, so far puts the nurses practical and the nurses general on an equal footing. Both fall within the same category that they can work without supervision, i.e. separately, and the work that is generally defined in the law is exactly the same. I admit that it will be further specified by the decree, but we can wait to see how it turns out. So it is, as I said, a departure from the European tendency to strengthen the education of nurses, because the system of four plus one education reduces, in contrast to the present one, and hopes to increase the number of nurses whose competence, as I said, on the trajectory of the practical sister - the general nurse - is specialized, will then, if the law comes into force, somehow form. As I said, the profession of a medical assistant has failed, and there seem to be relatively many highly educated nurses, which is why education wants to be reduced. Very often you can hear something that I find a little defensive, that the nurses are bachelors, event. Master many and no one is to work. That is also one of the reasons why the Ministry is trying to deal with this, although I think it's rather unfortunate. And a little promotion from the auxiliary staff. [[10.50 hours]] I can imagine that the quality, albeit the reduction in education, would be two years, the quality could be preserved if secondary schools got back into the guard where they were before, had more selected pupils and very good health practice, and that year, which will be the course at the higher vocational school, would have to be very intense and high quality. The problem with this system is that the current double-tracking, which has been fought against for ten years and considered meaningless, will remain preserved. Double-tracking is the possibility of being educated as a diplomat specialist in a secondary school superstructure or a bachelor, and it has never been eliminated, the double-tracking, although now the ministry will try to eliminate the double-tracking in other professions at least, but vice versa, the double-tracking extends to three-tracking. I'm not the enemy of that four plus one, and I said it might be able to be cultivated gradually, but the paradox of the three-track is very unhappy. I'll do it again. A secondary schoolgirl with a one-year course at a higher vocational school will be equivalent to a gymnast with a three-year course at a higher vocational school. So be it. That gymnast doesn't have medical high school training, she just has a broader general education. But in order for this to be equivalent, the four plus one, to college education, even to a lower bachelor, I just consider that an anomaly. A single education product, a general sister, fully qualified, which is produced in three different ways at three levels, shows that there is something wrong in our system. Either a bachelor's education is useless and is useless and only confirms the ubiquitous inflation of education in our environment, and if it is useless and has its meaning, we will then deceive each other that a high school worker and a one-year course is on the same level as a college student. I would be able to understand if the system's four plus one proposers had come up with the idea that such nurses would be a little differentiated through different channels, such as those with a lower degree of education would have to have a little more practice than they would be able to enter specialization education, or there would be a similar mechanism, for example, in the initial practice, but there is no indication of anything similar. Let me just point out that the Ministry itself criticised the double-track, and in the explanatory report, the double-tracking is perfectly defined. This is a condition where education takes place at two educational levels for one and the same health education, without substantially distinguishing their content, thus giving graduates the same competence. This enables the current system to continue individual levels of qualification education without the aim of increasing competences. In other words, the diplomat nurse continues very often in the qualification study of the same profession aimed at the same competences in the Bachelor's degree programme and the state pays this qualification twice. It's just, of course, attractive for smarter young ladies to want to get a college education. When they have the same level of education, it is not so difficult and yet the university education has some sound and leads to this anomaly. This is what Minister Němeček said, the Ministry has decided to suppress the double-trackness for example in rescue and other occupations, but it brings three-trackness to the nurses. That was probably the main thing I wanted to say. There are two other problems. First of all, I think specialization education is a problem. The explanatory memorandum states that the legislation on specialisation education is now ambiguous, inaccurate at times, shows gaps, such as the lack of an adjustment to the completion of the initial specialisation education, etc. The amendment is part of the solution. It corrects these shortcomings, but the legislative treatment of specializations remains completely different from the law on doctor education, although the issue is very similar. Instead of a decree, the definition of specialization guidelines is determined in a non-medical law by a government regulation and such things as the structure of disciplines, length of education, entry conditions, the creation of study tasks are dealt with differently in that law than in the Law on the education of doctors, which unnecessarily complicates health legislation, and was now able to remedy it in some way. I have one last critical remark on the medical profession nomenclature. The structure of these professions is determined by Title II of the Law and in Part 1, where the branches are illustrated by the level of nurses, they are workers who do not need specialised competence for autonomy. They don't need any more certification education. In 2 there are health professionals who have a higher education of nonmedical, Master's, but medical, and they are more complex professions that approach medical, and they need specialized education. For example, clinic psychologists or physiotherapists. In the next part 3, there are workers with lower health education who must always be supervised. So this system creates a kind of four-stage hierarchy. I'm going to do a little bit of vulgarization and simplify it, but we have a physiotherapy clinic chief, and so on, in the next category, there are nurses, paramedics, health labs, and fourth, there are workers who have to be supervised. But the logic of naming these patients is wrong. In the category under supervision, i.e. the low one, we have a worker named lab assistant or a worker named autopsy lab agent. While in a higher category without supervision is an X-ray assistant and a health technician. If it were possible to project a simple table, it wouldn't be so difficult, but the lab is sometimes a higher category than the assistant, and sometimes it's the other way around. At least this would still have to be adjusted. Moreover, this simple logic does not include the specialization education of the category of nurses who have specialization education, but are not mandatory and the law does not define what it is meant to do. [[11.00 hours]] Perhaps nomenclature and clear hierarchy are just formalities, but their unification would make it significantly easier to understand the logic of the law, personalists should make it easier to explain which worker is - if we speak in military terminology - a general who is an officer who is a petty officer. And today, this impossibility confuses patients in particular. So many of my comments. I'm just gonna end up saying something optimistic, so I'm gonna try to confirm the law. If something had been modified in cooperation with the Ministry, it would have been nice, especially in the sense that the differentiation of nurses with higher education would have been a little clearer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u7	I thank Mr Heger. Now I have two factual points. Mr Kasal, Mr Plzák, followed by Mr Kasal, with the first factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I respect the speaker very much, but I cannot fundamentally agree with what has been said here, and I have a few comments. About what was said here about education. On the contrary, I think it's an anomaly for nurses to study for seven years. This isn't about the length itself, it's about the content. And if you speak directly to those who are educated, they say to you: We sit there for two years and learn what we have learned before... So de facto it's a very expensive system to educate nurses. That's one thing. Second thing. And the contents. If the nurse we want to be treated has one of the exams or one of the test questions at the end of the exam, what Health 2020 is, I think it really is for us to make a plan for how we want to affect society, and not for nurses to have to answer that question, for whom it is not at all. As regards the length of education in relation to the EU. I had the opportunity to be sent to Germany by the Chamber of Deputies on a business trip, and there I asked the Deputy Minister for Health. Nurses in Germany have been studying for three years. So the assistant who crosses the hills becomes the boss there during a six-month course and leads some of the teams that the assistant here basically can't even do the job afterwards. So I think we should really reduce both the length and the load so that it's really attractive for those of you who sign up. And the assistants. They're not employed on the one hand in smaller hospitals because there's no one to stand up for them. And when the conference was here in Prague, we were told that 90 percent of the assistants wanted to go on studying. So if they're worth the assistant, they still want to go to college. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u9	Thank you, honourable Member. With another factual remark, Mr Plzák. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I have also applied to the de facto comment on the performance of Professor Heger. He said that the essential thing was heard in his speech. But I kept expecting him to say the important thing, and I didn't think it was relevant. Nobody's taking that higher level of education to the nurses. It just won't be mandatory. Let me give you my own example. From us almost all nurses from the hospital study in Bratislava at a private school. It costs them money, it costs them time. And when, as a result, about two years ago, when this started to happen, then the head nurse from the ministry was with us, she had a full cafeteria of nurses, and she asked if they were comfortable with the current system, or if they wanted to go back to the original, four years of health school, and then work, they all signed up for the original system without exception. So it's just this on the edge. And as for the responsibilities, if the nurses call, they'll just be given the powers of separation. And if a nurse wants to have such competence that she wants to diagnose and heal, don't be mad at her to graduate from medical school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u11	Thank you, honourable Member. With another factual remark, Mr Kasal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u12	Thank you. I'll complete my previous performance. It's also the fact that those colleges are raising mostly nursing teams. I dare say they're nursing terror teams who invent an incredible amount of administration and paperwork and overwhelm the health system. And those nurses, instead of really paying attention to patients, they just paper and write papers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u13	Thank you, honourable Member. That was the last point of fact so far. Another one for the general debate is Mrs Jana Hnyková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm gonna put on my glasses, and I'm gonna start working on it right now. So, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you good morning. I am very sorry that there isn't a single minister in the ranks behind me. [[Minister Nemecek reporting from the news table.]] I would like to commend you, Minister, that you are the only one sitting here. Here you can see the respect for this very law and for the sisters. And that's how it's reflected in our entire society, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Finally, an amendment to the Law on Non-medical Health Workers, a popular amendment to the Law on Nurses Education, arrived in the House. Dawn - National Coalition welcomes this amendment of the law. I've been working on it, too. On the one hand, our nurses' education will be reduced and a senseless credit system will be abolished, so-called. The credit hunt... To do what we have and to do our hard work. I am a nurse myself and I do not care what future education will be, what sisters will prepare for practice, who will take care of patients in hospitals and social services. I believe that a new quality education system will put sisters into practice who will be prepared and that their education will not affect their financial evaluation and inclusion in the work catalogue. And I'm gonna stop by the three-way. Yes, we must say that this amendment sets the tri-trackness of education. We're gonna have sisters here with four plus one, and there's gonna be nurses who are gonna get an education at college, and there's gonna be nurses who are gonna have college education because they've been studying high school before, and then they've decided that they want to be sisters. I think that this will be a problem in practice in the future, because, of course, even today, sisters with higher education are already demanding what work they want to do. But my colleague Kasal and colleague Heger have already talked about this. However, let me draw attention to the problems that are linked to the lack of nurses on this occasion. I have repeatedly expressed myself on the Health Committee on this issue. Some colleagues believe that this amendment will fundamentally affect the number of nurses in hospitals and social services. But I want to point out that it will take some time for the sisters to enter into force and before they get so educated - I'm talking about four plus one - just in practice. I want to draw attention to the very burning problems, and I want to ask the Minister what he will do for the sisters in this area. Firstly, I want to say that it is necessary to harmonise the system of remuneration for non-medical workers. I'm avoiding doctors, please, I'll only speak for nurses and other workers in this category. There can't be that different salaries for the same job done. I just consider it discriminatory. We have remuneration according to the salary tables, where the average salary is CZK 30,866, and contractual salaries, a contractual salary of CZK 25,434. Here you can see that it's a difference of more than five thousand, and I'm based on IHIS statistics. If you'd like to take a look at these charts, we've got them with us. [[11.10 hours]] Two. The work of nurses and other workers in this category is financially underrated. And my colleague Pastuchová was talking about it. In the past, this category has been forgotten and another group of health workers preferred. In health care the team works and must be awarded every work, and the work of nurses and other workers in this category. I hope that this will not happen again in the future and that remuneration will be sufficiently reviewed every year. After all, it is not possible for sisters to exert pressure in this area to appreciate their work. Three. The Ministry of Health does not work to eliminate the minimum standards decree adopted as Minister Heger in 2012, when the minimum number of nurses became optimal in hospitals and the burden of nurses increased. And I'm going to ask you, Minister, what are you doing about it and what are you going to do about it? Four. We've been talking about this, too. Let us not allow in the future that sisters who have been educated once in their field are forced to complete their education, e.g. As my colleague Plzák said here, he has to go to Bratislava and learn the same things. Nurse's work is not easy, both professional, physical and psychological. The administrative burden has increased enormously and there is a patient who needs help, care and treatment. It is necessary to create conditions for sisters to carry out their work. Each of us who has met a sister knows that she is an integral part of health care and deserves decent conditions for our lives. Let's not forget that he's human, too. We have families, hobbies, we're mothers, we're wives, but our profession leads us to work on Saturday, Sunday, on a holiday. Yes, someone might object: you chose it, so now don't blame it. But we chose this profession because we want to help and help people heal, help people in social facilities, and we want to be appreciated for our work. Finally, I want to say that Dawn - The National Coalition also takes into account the opinions of professional societies on this amendment and we will try to promote the best possible education for the benefit of the sisters. However, I must stress that the lack of nurses needs to be addressed comprehensively, not only by amending the Education Act, but by improving financial valuation and working conditions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u15	Thank you, Mrs Hnyková. Another duly registered member is Mr Jiří Koskuba. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry to speak to the half-empty House, but maybe it's a good thing that there won't be so much commenting on this incredibly needed law again. I'll be extravagantly conceited. Please, from the previous speakers, it was objectively said that the amendments to laws 95 and 96, namely the 2004 education of doctors and nurses, failed. My vanity is that unlike some, I have known this since 2004 and 2005, what has come into practice, and since then I have been speaking inconspicuously about it. And I have to say, even in a rather profound disinterest in the media, I have tried to change all sorts of things. To be fair, however, who else can change it than the Ministry of Health. And in my speech, I'm gonna do a few wrongs. The first will be that I thank at all that this Ministry of Health finally comes here with this necessary change. Ladies and gentlemen, he is coming here, to this House, as I say again almost half empty, but with a certain, you might say, twelve years late. And what did the 12 years bring us? Someone then looked at the fact that we would follow, let's say, the American road, and what about the nurse, the college girl. As a result, it was a beautiful thing, and the previous speakers actually mentioned it in many ways. Our nurses at one time after graduation were nothing but a medical assistant, who practically couldn't do almost anything because of their competences, and oddly enough those who graduated from school, and let's face it, mostly private - I'm going to fix the previous speakers by saying that, for example, our sisters often went to Příbram, where one foreign medical school is based, and there for their money, and they studied small or their employers. It was clear to everyone that these girls were significantly fewer. And I don't exactly know the numbers, but on average, if the minister corrects me, from high schools of about seven eight thousand nurses a year, suddenly the numbers were in the thousands, at most four. And what happened next. Our new ones, and I don't want to touch any of them, bachelors and magisters have stopped wanting to do work, so I'm gonna tell the old-fashioned sisters. I mean, order nurses in hospitals. And it's true about something. I spoke rather bluntly about this here in the last parliamentary season, when the Minister of Health was an honored colleague, Docent Heger, and I desperately tried to get him to think about it. Unfortunately, I didn't succeed. Therefore, I apologise very much to him through the Vice-President, but I am not quite impressed by the arguments here. We could've got it sorted out. And in the meantime, the time was running out, and year after year, the sisters were slipping away, and the ones that were already growing, and that was the rudeness - I said, do you really need to wash up, the ladies would forgive me, the ass of a college girl? And you'll be surprised, this quite possibly vulgar statement is an entirely mundane part of the work of all nurses. And so time was running out, and I know you've all noticed how suddenly in hospitals we're dealing with a lack of medium health personnel. Yes, I do, and I have a personal interest in things. Even my workplace is starting to close the beds because we don't have nurses and the ones we have don't want to work there. Because my field is next to the buyer. General surgery, and I don't want to touch others, is one of the hardest, and those sisters are leaving us. We made college girls compulsory for girls who, although they apply Western standards, oddly enough, some of them didn't. I'm gonna mention something stupid. If you know, at the post office and at the České dráhy, a woman must not lift a burden more than 15 kg. But two 45-pound girls, if they're competent, have to pick up a 140-pound patient at night that's gonna blow out of bed. Yes, you can discuss here, there are supposed to be ambulances. But who would do that for the money? And since it's logical that a patient, especially on the ground, so bulky, rises a lot of weight than a bowl of apricots, because he doesn't have real ears, and he can't be picked up for those he's got, it's just that the patient isn't a burden. [[11.20 hours]] Each of you may have been in the hospital. Many of you were in that hospital. Quite frankly. Who are you meeting the most? With nurses. You're with you 24 hours a day. Yes, Mrs Hnyková here spoke of it. And that's why I confess, although I wish it to all salesmen in hypermarkets over 200 m2, I cannot agree that other professions are merely a calling, not a profession. Those girls are really there all the time, sometimes 24 hours. What's important is that we don't have the sisters. And if we don't have sisters, teams are falling apart. They often talk about doctors. I'm a doctor myself, but I never dared to say one thing. We're not an elite. There's just a team working in health care. And he starts with the ambulance driver who takes you to the hospital, and he ends up really the tallest thing in that hospital. And it's never gonna work without one or the other. It's just too bad sometimes you can't see what's going on down there. It wants to be done, ladies and gentlemen, a little practice. And believe me, over the past 12 years, we owe those nurses more than any of you think. Because they didn't yell as much as other professions, but they really took it hard that suddenly someone is a medical assistant and can only do that or that. And here I am, hopefully we still have immunity at least on Parliament's floor, hopefully in my speech I'll admit that if anyone was lying with us, if you think that I, as the boss, will give you an intravenous injection far better than an experienced nurse, then I'll admit to you that I will not bring you the most experienced of our medical assistants, which used to be diplomat nurses, and you will grunt as it went. But I'm basically breaking the law that I'm doing this. But I confess to you, we do it more and more often, because we have nothing left to do. Why am I talking about this? I wanted to give it to you from a different perspective. Just a little more general. I don't want to go into explaining the difference between a medical assistant, with all due respect to a colleague here, Heger, an assistant in the autopsy room, and a bed station, where he comes in contact with a living patient. Between you and me, when the head of forensics told me he was going on rounds, I wanted to go with him because I was wondering how to make rounds in this professional workplace. [[Laughs in the hall.]] But then I understood. However, there are certain differences and there are generally at least complaints, unlike us. [[New entertainment in the hall.]] I have to admit that objectively. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you one thing. Leave this bill as far as possible to the Health Committee. It's his job. Let us not engage in extensive discussions about this or that point here on this soil. I can't stop you. But I'm begging you. We already lost another school year with him in the fall of 2016. Before it's put into practice, and that's what the previous speakers said, he'll run away for years. And I can't promise you for myself from my experience, and I'm sorry, and I'm not spreading the alarm message if you're in full custody in three years because doctors without nurses can't be in the hospital. I'm not kidding, it's such a small thing. Also, there were predecessors who cried out that acute beds were an excess, and the acute beds were dwindling. It's funny that even here in Prague, which you considered to be the belly of the world, we really dingle with patients in large hospitals according to the fall, because there is nothing else left for us, because we have nowhere else to store these people. It's the law of the market. Suddenly, demand simply exceeds supply. But it wasn't true that so many beds were redundant. And beds without nurses are useless again, because I admit to you, I don't control a lot of their work. Mrs Hnyková here very wisely, and in return, please, the Minister has mentioned the administration. I've been talking about it, too, and I'll keep reminding you. Colleagues know that I have brought a stack of 17 sheets of paper to the health committee that are completed when the patient is also admitted for four hours of hospitalization. Ladies and gentlemen, I warn you, over ten of these sheets are filled out by a nurse. Then note the little thing when you're all talking about a patient, but in the previous season, laws were passed here, which I had the honor of disagreeing with, where the patient became a client, which may seem meaningless, but it shows something. Because for thousands of years, he was a patient for doctors and paramedics, and there was another relationship. In my opinion, the client is an insurance company's client, but it can also be a compulsory liability of the vehicle and it is not the same. It's about living beings. Anyway, the nurse is supposed to be taking care of the patient. Yes, if there's time left. But most of all, he has to fill out papers about him. Because some college girls who got degrees wisely, and that's just capitalism, found a hole in the market, invented various accreditations, checks, invented other questionnaires. So a nurse almost as much as Rudolf II, it's not important if, after a great need, she brings you a bowl in time, treats you, creates a room, but the important thing is that we have a proper sheet of paper filled in. And as you know, Rudolf II. the shape, character and scent of the stool was recorded every day. That's where we grew up. And someone keeps telling me it's due to increased patient safety. I think it's more important than that, and maybe I'm choosing this more vulgar case if the patient actually has the ass wiped off, if it's granted in time, and if it's prevented by his bedsores. And we can't stop that by measuring the temperature in the fridge once or twice a day to record that the temperature is between four and eight degrees, and maybe the eight don't belong there anymore. This is what the life of nurses looks like 12 years after Law No. 96/2004 Coll. I am also grateful to the former Minister, Professor Heger, that he said right here - the law failed. The law really didn't work. He didn't even do the first one. But for God's sake, let's change it as quickly as possible. And when I talk about servitude, there's one thing I can't forgive. As I thanked the Ministry for coming with him at all, I must also thank at least this health committee that, even after more than two years, we are talking about this here behind this counter, and since it is not here, and perhaps you know that I am not gifted with servility, otherwise I also have to thank the Prime Minister. Because I had the opportunity to talk to him repeatedly about it. And I am glad that he has pushed through the government and that, as the rapporteur, Mrs Pastuchová, has said here, we may be able to do so by the end of the term of office. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't have much time left. Perhaps we will get rid of the senators by those who now often return the bills to us, because the Senate elections are coming, they will be gone in November, so there might also be peace. There's a lot of doctors in there. I'll just keep my fingers crossed for the Ministry to actually pass this law this winter semester, because before it comes into force, it'll be too late. [[11.30 hours]] And one last point in the matter. You were right to talk about a lot of college, blah blah blah. When education changed, and you know that, for example, Minister Valachová is very active and she is here at any moment with some law, I would not be upset as a conservative and a health ward, for if secondary health education had returned under the wings of the Ministry of Health, schools returned as they were - I remember - after so-called winning November it worked - to the proper hospitals. Because, ladies and gentlemen, education is a beautiful thing, but it is a profession where practice is crucial. And that includes nurses. And if the schools were at the hospitals and the girls in the fourth year took turns in different clinical workplaces and did their jobs, so not only did they choose where they were going to go, and I beg you that wasn't one faculty, it was really in the whole republic, but they knew what it was about. That's how they learn somewhere, and then they come to the hospital and they're surprised at the way things look. But I admit that I pushed for this, too, but we would probably want too much from the Minister or the Ministers and the Government. But I consider it my duty to say it out loud. And if you have any doubts as to whether your life will be saved by a diplomat's sister... Who knows me closer knows that I often have a comparison with the military. We didn't allow city officers even after 20 years of service to do without graduation, and I didn't agree to it, I consider it a mistake. On the other hand, fortunately, we allow the soldiers, as I had the opportunity to see, even in foreign missions that are really fighting, not all of them need yet to have a war academy. Yet they do well to do their job and practice, on the contrary, may overwhelm many white collars from some auditoriums. You also do not require a subway, whether you are using it or a tram, where there are also human lives, to run a Bachelor of the High School of Transportation. There's a logic to it. That doesn't declassify the nurses for wanting their graduation to be enough. It's not their declassification. Rather, it is to enable them to be worked out. As my colleague Plzák said here, if he then desires university education, some of them used to go to medical school, because it is probably the closest profession to be done in health care, and of course no one prevents them from doing college. I can't even, I'm sorry, the names. If someone wants to be a Care Assistant or Chief Nurse, so be it. But the one who comes to you at night and treats you is enough for your graduation. Thank you for your attention. I don't know if I convinced you. I had to talk to it because I don't believe it's going to pass smoothly. But I've really been at it for 12 years. If at least this had worked out, and if we could make it to the end of the season, I'd be quite happy to leave here next year, because I see it as my debt. And I really thank those nurses who put up with us, whatever their title or designation. I'm grateful to them for that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u17	I thank Mr Koskuba. With the factual remark of Mrs Marta Semelová. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to respond to what the previous speaker was talking about. I don't want to touch the education of nurses now, the length of the education of nurses, where they are educated and so on. I'd just like to warn someone about the fact that the education of nurses should be transferred to the Ministry of Health. I am concerned that there could gradually be further fragmentation of the education system in our country. Art schools could want to go under the Ministry of Culture, agricultural schools under the Ministry of Agriculture and so on and so on. I do not think that we should go this way, because the education system could really be completely fragmented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u19	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Jiří Štětina, Mr Jiří Koskuba, followed by Mr Jiří Koskuba.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u20	Good noon. Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't want to talk because I think there are so many lobbyist interests in health that I'm beginning to understand all this. I was glad that the Minister and his ministry were preparing for a major reorganization of doctors' education, nurses'. I have to agree to what my colleague Koskuba said. I shouldn't, because I'm a opposition, but I usually agree with him at 99 percent. The only reason I've had, because I don't like to repeat someone, I want to say to him, colleague, I think you're still young and you actually remember less than I do. But what you said, I can push you back to the '50s, where as a child, I could see how they provide the services of the sister-in-law and so on. The idea that health schools belong to the Ministry of Health, thank you for that. I already said that in 2010, however, it never succeeded. So I can't agree with my colleague Semelová, it's not smashing, but it's really about expertise. I really think that the system we had here by 2004 did not order us the European Union, but somebody did it to privatize it. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u21	Thank the honourable Member. With a point of fact, Mr Jiří Koskuba.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to reassure my colleague Semelová. I, of course, as a Member, have the right to speak my mind, she has the right to disagree with it. I'm not preparing any changeling to implement something like this. I just can't forgive myself for a poisonous remark. It worked just during the era that Mrs Semelová here presents. It's been working there for 40 years. And oddly enough from my point of view, which will condemn many others, this was not such a bad idea at the time. But that's just to the edge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u23	Thank you. Mrs Semelová wants to respond really. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u24	I thank Mr Koskuba. Of course, I know it worked that way back then. There was a lot more going on back then, but unfortunately in this system, it could be completely different.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u25	Mr Brázdil made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u26	Very briefly. You see, nurses' education, there are few, we all agree - to simplify. It's not gonna be about sisters after all. It will eventually be about who will educate it, what lobby. It's about money. In the end, a lot of changelings will be shattered out of good intentions, because somebody's gonna side with that school, that school, and it's gonna be about money. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u27	Thank you, honourable Member. That was the last point of fact so far. Mr Ludvík Hovorka is now duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, Minister, in 2003, the Czech Parliament demoted nurses who had been educated in secondary schools to mere medical assistants. The KDU-ČSL club warned already in 2003, I remember that it was Mrs Šojdrová at the time that this change would not lead to better, but would mean a decline in the number of nurses. [[11.40 hours]] I support the bill, which is intended to return competence to high school graduates. However, I would like to draw attention to one thing, which may be widely known, that the quality of the graduates' secondary health schools should be from the years 90., then perhaps from 2002, 2003 and current is not comparable. This is mainly due to the fact that, as education, output has been degraded, i.e. talented girls who went to prestigious high schools at the time because medical schools were prestigious schools, so, of course, when she only had the prospect of obtaining a medical assistant without the competence of a nurse, she chose, in many cases, education at a high school and then went to college mostly. So all we need to do is look at the process of change that middle schools have been through since the teaching program changed, teaching programs in general. And this will probably need to be restored to a form that was before 2004. To the chaos of education, I set one example. Today we have about five categories of physiotherapists, because we used to have four-year-old high school graduates here, a rehabilitation nurse. Then we had the superstructures, we had a high school after high school for two years, and then, of course, we have physiotherapists who graduated from high school as diploma sisters. And then the bachelors and the magisters. And now try to answer which of these categories, from these five categories of physiotherapists, has more knowledge, more experience. If it is necessary also the medical rehabilitation nurse, who at that time graduated from a two-year extension and during those 30 years received special courses from various techniques and who, say, has practical experience perhaps far higher than a young sister who graduated from a Master's degree. So here I'm just setting an example of the chaos that occurred in education after the changes that are happening today. So I support the bill, which is intended to return competence to high school graduates, with a small adjustment. But I say and point out, we have to go back to becoming high schools of choice again and to return to the quality of entry, i.e. I want the girls to go to these schools with better benefits. And focus, of course, on the quality of the output. That is what I would like to mention, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u29	I thank Mr Hovorka. Now with the rapporteur's priority right. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u30	Thank you. Only through the President for Dr Hovorka. We have prepared this amendment at the Ministry of Health in close cooperation with the Ministry of Education, so a new framework education programme is already being prepared to come into effect with the effectiveness of this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u31	Thank you to the rapporteur. Just a reminder that Mr. Hovorka is an engineer. [[Member Pastuch from the post: Sorry.]] Another duly registered member is Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u32	Good morning, Mr President, Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. A lot has been said here today about the amendment of Act No. 96/2004 Coll. And there's also been a lot of talk about how bad the original law is. So I wouldn't want to repeat myself here, and all the negatives that my previous speakers mentioned here, I can only confirm. All of this shows that the urgency or need for us to amend this law is indeed great. And at this point, I want to thank the working group, which worked with the Ministry of Health for quite a long time. Some of our colleagues sat there, and I know she did a very difficult job. At the same time, however, I would also like to mention that the expectations for this amendment may be slightly exaggerated at times, because especially some media are calling this law as one that will bring improvements in the personnel situation to our hospitals in a short period of time. And I mean, it's not gonna be that easy. This is a very important first step, and if we don't do it, in a very short time, there will be no one in our hospitals to take care of our bedside patients. And I think, in time, it would happen in the ambulances. But it's not gonna help on its own. We will have to come up with further steps, and we will certainly get to that in further discussions as well as in the Health Committee, which I also believe will be the main one that will deal with this amendment of the law. The work of the work committee itself has shown that the dispersal in the opinions of the professional public on what education should look like and what the competences of nurses and other nonmedical professions should look like is really great. And it will also be one of the things that will probably make it difficult for the health committee to work in negotiations on the final form of this law. Now, I would briefly mention some specific points in this amendment, where I think there will be a need for discussion, although I welcome the basic concept of the draft amendment. First of all, so-called. model 4+1 me personally, and now I will speak mainly from the position of doctor and chief of department. I am convinced that this model can be implemented in practice. But there will be some other conditions that will be needed so that this model can actually work in practice. My previous speakers have already mentioned that the big problem today is the quality of high school students. And I'm not saying I want to touch them. They're young people who somehow found themselves in high school. And maybe it's not always their fault they chose this school. Most of us remember the time when selective schools were grammar schools. That was the biggest base a young man wanted to get to. And if that wasn't possible, the boys wanted to apply to auto mechanics, and the girls wanted to apply to high school medical school. Unfortunately, this period is no longer true. Today, candidates or high school students are very often young people who go to this school so-called embarrassment and often find out during their studies that they don't really want to do the work of a medic at all. This, of course, corresponds to their motivation for the study itself. So if we're talking about high school admission criteria here, that's one of the other tasks we need to think about. And the rapporteur has already indicated this, and education plans are also very important, which must be set up so that someone does not blame us for shortening the duration of our studies, while less quality middle-health workers are working out. So not only the setting up or the invention of educational plans, but especially their implementation will be one big task in achieving what we all want. That we'll have enough medium-medical staff, very high-quality and motivated to do the job. And I would also follow up on my colleague Jana Hnyková because we're both in the health department. Although I am a doctor and I could be among those who believe that health care is based on doctors, of course our health care could not work without doctors, but could not function without quality nurses and other non-medical professions. If we want to make this profession more attractive, we will have to think not only about financial appreciation, but also about social recognition and how the public approaches nurses at present. [[11.50 hours]] With regard to some other specific points of the amendment presented, I would see a certain problem in the areas of continuity and continuity of education, both in the newly established profession a practical sister and in the profession a child nurse, to which I think it will be necessary to return in committee meetings. As a risk, I see the proposed length of the adaptation process, which is now normally six to twelve months in hospitals. As chief of staff, I can say that it is very individual for the various newcomers. However, I believe that the newly designed 60 days are far too benevolent from my point of view and risky from my point of view. I could also talk about some other places in the novel where there will still be some things to think about, but I really think that this discussion belongs in particular to the health committee. So I am intercede for this amendment to be allowed into committee meetings, and I do not think that we should rush into this. I would intercede for the standard time to be discussed in committees, i.e. 60 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u33	Thank you, Mr Kaňkovský. So far, Mr Rostislav Vyzula is the last duly entered into the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u34	Good morning - nine more minutes. Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Let me make a few comments. A number of this press has already been said, but I still think I would like to say something here to defend the system that is now being implemented. I'm a little sorry the House is half-empty. It seems as if there is no interest in this issue among Members - even among governments in fact. But if God forbid any of you get to a hospital, what does he want? She wants not only a pretty but nice, kind, experienced, empathetic nurse. A nurse, I don't say a doctor! Of course, the doctor cares, too, because, as has been said, it's a team of people. I've worked in health care long enough to support two things here in terms of nurses. One thing is that I promised them that I would try to reduce their administrative work, which is enormous, which has been mentioned here, and there is no need to stress this further. But a nurse fills out various papers in her eight-hour hours of work. Either paper-based or computer-based materials directly, and they can't, of course, be involved in patients at the time. That's one thing. And the second thing is, I promised to try to simplify their education. Why do I mean that? I took a little test when the debate started on this law. I've been thinking to myself, there's been a time here for, like, 12 years, that was a year ago, that test of mine - 13 years when sisters have some kind of educational system, and I didn't know if they were happy or not. I figured I'd run an anonymous test on a sample of 150 nurses. It's not enough, it's not much. Someone might question that they're small numbers, but I don't have any more at the clinic. And do you know what the results were? This anonymous test showed, both 90 percent of the nurses answered me, and he showed me the following: 75 percent of the sisters want a quality middle education. But quality! Not what he is now. Quality is quite different from what currently works. Less than 10 percent want some college education at the Bachelor's or DiS level and only 4 percent want a Master's degree. It's understandable. Most women want to help patients, they want to be helpful in their difficult times, and of course some of them want to be managers, they want to be deputy, they want to be top nurses, etc. I think this clearly reflects, even if it's not a large sample, reality. And let's try to make what they want come true. But there's one thing that has to do with it, and it's important. If this form of education is promoted, that is to say, high school education in particular, then we must want quality education and high-quality secondary education. Obviously, we must also try to change in the field of secondary education, because otherwise it would be pointless. The problem is that current high school education leads some to this - I am from South Moravia, and so-called. assistants, or assistants who go to secondary school, have a certain level of employment. And they found that if they went to a six-month course or a several-month course in Austria, they would become full sisters in Austria. They don't have to do any more DiS, no more college with us. They become full - time nurses, and then they stay working there, in Austria. That's one of the reasons we lack nurses. The second is that we really want to force them into higher education, and they don't want to. And I would also like to stress that so called. The title, it was mentioned here, the diplomat nurse, DIS, in no way means the title MUDr, of course. And it was a nice parody or actually sarcasm in a recent episode about Dr. Martin. And I don't think we'd have the meaning of this DiS. to overestimate. Basically, I think that's pretty much all I want to say, and let's think about it. I know it's going to be very difficult. It will be more difficult to discuss than the current amendment to Law 95, i.e. on the education of doctors. There's a lot of emotion, there's a lot of opinions, different opinions, but let's try. We are obliged to do this to the sisters because we want them to do quality work, which I personally appreciate immensely. And without making it easier for them, I can't imagine how our health system would continue to function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u35	I thank Mr Vyzula. This has been the last one entered into the general debate so far. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u36	Thank you. I would like to make a proposal to shorten the time limit for the hearing to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u37	Thank you. If no one else is in the general debate, this is not the case, which is why I am ending the general debate and I am asking the Minister's final words. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me really respond very briefly to the debate. Firstly, I want to thank all who participated in it for giving a relatively precise description of the reality of the current situation of Czech nurses and their education, and that was why we submitted this law. When it comes to the objection that instead of double-tracking, we're introducing three-trackness, she's kind of right. In theory, the bill allows for something similar. But I think life will show and reality will show which possibilities will or will not be used. I think that already two of these three options will be used primarily. People who want to go into practice who want to go to patients who want to go to hospitals will use model 4+1. Those interested in deeper education, higher education, will benefit from the model of a three-year Bachelor's degree. I would also like to share a recent experience here, when I was in Jihlava to start a school year in high school medical school, and I have to say that I did not feel bad about it, that students of this school were not of good quality, that they would not be interested in learning anything about helping patients. On the contrary, I felt that they wanted to do the work of a nurse. And I think if we let them do it just in a relatively short time after they still have the enthusiasm and passion to get into hospitals, they have some competence, so a lot of them stay there. If we force them to go through quite a complex and long college education, many of them will lose their appetite and never get into health care. And that's why we're making the proposal. Of course, I know that the change is not all-solving, the change will take a long time to feel its consequences, and that it must be linked mainly to improving the financial evaluation of the work of nurses and other medium-sized health workers. And that's what the Ministry and the government do. Twice in a row we raised tariff salaries by 5%, now they will be raised by 10 %. It's not a miracle, but I think it's a clear signal that we want to improve this thing and move it somewhere. Furthermore, I would like to support the reduction of the deadline to 30 days. I think that we have worked very long and very carefully in the commissions in preparing this law, that the 30 days will be enough to discuss technical matters, and I feel that there is quite a strong majority agreement on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u39	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur's final words. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u40	I would also like to thank all the debaters. I am very pleased that there has not been quite one negative reaction to the fact that this amendment to the law is wrong. Thank you all so much for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u41	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see a motion for a rebuttal or rejection of the proposed proposal. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the motion to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee. Does anyone else suggest a guarantee committee? It's not like that. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. Who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee? Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 137 vote, 150 Members and Members signed up, for 110, against none, the proposal was accepted. The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to any other committee. Does anyone have a motion on the commandment of the next committee to discuss? [[Responses to the left: Yes, here.]] Mr. Kořenek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u42	Hello. I propose the commandment of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u43	Thank you. Does anyone else have any other suggestions? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the commandment of the Committee on Science, Education, Youth and Sports. I am opening the vote on the commandment to this committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 138 vote, 149 Members are registered, for 52, against 35, the proposal has not been adopted. In the general debate, a proposal was made to shorten the deadline for discussion to 30 days, and we will vote on this proposal. Initiating vote on a proposal to shorten the deadline to 30 days. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote 139, registered is 150 Members, for 59, against 46, the proposal has not been adopted. There's a request for a vote check. Not interested. I thank the rapporteur and the Minister and end the first reading of this proposal. I'm handing over the meeting management.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-004-063.u44	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, members of the government. Let's keep going. Before we go to the next point, I state that further apologies have been made to the President of the Chamber of Deputies from today's meeting. Today, Mr Jiří Běhounek and Mr Vlastimil Gabrhel apologizes from the meeting until 14.00. The next item is the item number
