ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-011-036.u1	36. Government bill amending Act No. 143/2001 Coll., on the Protection of Competition and on the Amendment of Certain Laws (Act on the Protection of Competition), as amended /German Press 702/ - First Reading In that case, I will ask Minister Jan Mládek to stay at the rapporteur's table. Under the Government's authority, the proposal shall state the position of Prime Minister in accordance with the Government's resolution delivered, No. 3939/2016, Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-011-036.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I assume that this was on behalf of the Prime Minister. Just for the record. The submitted House press number 702 is a government bill amending Act No. 143/2001 Coll., on the Protection of Competition. The reason for the amendment of the Act in question is that the existing wording of the Act does not fully comply with the current and effective legal regulation of private law in the Czech legal order after its recodification, namely Act No. 89/2012 Sb., i.e. the Civil Code. The amendment also responds to the existing practice and experience of the Office for the Protection of Competition and aims to increase the legal certainty of the parties to the administrative proceedings and increase the enforcement of the right itself. The amendment regulates the provisions of the Merger Act, complements the absence of provisions on international cooperation between competition authorities so far, defines the regime of documents containing banking or similar secrets, regulates the supervision of public authorities in a new way, refines and complements concepts and definitions and, last but not least, responds to current caselaw in the field of the possibility of reviewing the legal procedure of the Office for Protection of Competition in an on-the-spot investigation at the premises of competitors in the legal proceedings for protection against unlawful interference, order or coercion by the administrative authority. In general, it can be summed up that the amendment should bring about rather partial changes, mostly of a legislative technical nature. The proposed legislation is in accordance with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic and does not contradict the fundamental provisions of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. At the same time, this regulation is also in line with the provisions of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, which is part of the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, as there is no breach of the fundamental provisions expressed in Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 2 (1) (a) 2 when State power can only be exercised within the limits and in the manner laid down by law. Other fundamental human rights or freedoms are not disturbed by this change. The proposed legislation is in accordance with the current state of European law and standards and does not contradict the existing practice of the European Commission or the Court of Justice of the European Union and neither the general principles of EU law. However, the proposal is not directly implementing. Furthermore, the case law of the EU courts applies to the area in question, among other things, e.g. Judgment of the Court of Justice of 14 June 2011 in Pfleiderer AG v Bundeskartellamt. The case law of the European Court of Human Rights, which guards the protection of the rights arising from the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, also partly affects the area in question. For example, this is the case. the right to a fair trial. A proper remedy shall be admissible against the Office's decision on an administrative offence or offence and the imposition of a fine for its commission. At the next stage, the action in administrative justice, i.e. the case will be decided by the court in court proceedings respecting the guarantees provided for in that provision of the Convention. The proposed amendment meets the proportionality criteria, does not extend the scope of relations to which future legislation applies compared to the current situation, only specifies it, nor extends the competence of the Authority or other public authorities. The amendment does not in itself create the need to increase jobs at the Competition Authority. From the point of view of efficiency, it can be noted that, in order to impose and enforce obligations to protect competition, the competition authority, which has been entrusted with this task since the establishment of legal regulation, is still competent in substance and locally. The chosen legislation continues to reflect the requirement of Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) The person responsible on the part of the Office shall always be an official in administrative proceedings. The designation of a specific official shall be carried out on the basis of internal rules, and the description of his organisational structure shall be published by the Office on its website, which shall be its responsibility. The official shall, in the exercise of the powers of the administrative authority, be required to prove himself with the relevant service licence. The Administrative Rules provide that the decision shall contain both the designation of the Office and the signature of the official person. This always makes it possible to identify the decision-maker clearly and personally. The proposed legislation is based on existing legislation regulating competition protection, following up on the practice of certified institutes and at the same time addressing problematic provisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-011-036.u3	I thank the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek for presenting the press in question. Now I have checked, and my colleague Kučera, who is the rapporteur for first reading, is duly excused. I will therefore ask either the Chairman of the Economic Committee or one of the fellow party members for a colleague of Kučera to present a news report. Will the Chairman of the Economic Committee take that step? We're gonna have to vote for that. So, Mr President, are you suggesting yourself or any of your colleagues in the Economic Committee? Just a moment. The Chairman of the Economic Committee, with his colleagues, who would present a report on this matter. A colleague named Pilný has already proposed someone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-011-036.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I propose the exchange of Mr Šrámek's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-011-036.u5	Okay. We will therefore vote on the amendment of the rapporteur - instead of Mr Kučera, Mr Šrámek. I have begun voting number 258 and I ask who is in favour of the rapporteur for the first reading being Mr Šrámek. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 258. Of the 148 present for 104, versus 2. The motion was accepted. I therefore ask my colleague Šrámek to report to the press 702.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-011-036.u6	Thank you to the House for your trust, ladies and gentlemen. I am happy to adopt the law, which the Minister has presented here, which has explained quite in detail what this law is about. I recommend that this law be postponed for discussion by the House's Economic Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-011-036.u7	Thank you. I am opening a general debate that I have no application for. I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the scene. This is not the case, which is why I am ending the general debate. There was no motion to return and refuse. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The rapporteur proposed the same in his report. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? It's not like that. We will proceed to vote number 259, which I have begun, and I ask who is, for the commandment to the Economic Committee, a guarantee committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 259. Of the present 150 for 112, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the other committees of the Chamber of Deputies to discuss? It's not like that. In that case, I can end the first reading, thank the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek and colleague Šrámek as rapporteur and say that the press was ordered by the Committee of Economics as a committee of guarantee and the deadline for discussion remained under the law 60 days. Thank you, and I'm done with point 36. My colleague, Volný, has he made a point of fact? It's not like that. We'll deal with point number
