ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-010-008.u1	8. Government proposal of the Constitutional Act on budgetary responsibility / House printing 411/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft bill will be presented by the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. Mr Vice-President, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-010-008.u2	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at second reading, we are returning to discussing the Government's draft constitutional law on budgetary responsibility. It is a legislation covering the national budgetary framework and defining its main principles and principles. It is closely followed by draft laws on the rules of budgetary responsibility and the Act amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of budgetary responsibility legislation. The submitted legal standard defines the long-term direction of public finances in the Czech Republic. Its main objective is to ensure their health and sustainability, i.e. to provide sufficient room for budgetary and fiscal policy implementation and to ensure respect for international commitments, even in the case of normal fluctuations in the business cycle. The Constitutional Act will help improve the overall management of the Czech Republic, enhance transparency and efficiency of public finances and, as a result, will also promote the competitiveness of the Czech economy. At the same time, I would like to point out that the preparation of the constitutional law follows some requirements in 2011 of the reformed Stability and Growth Pact. The proposal is also part of the transposition of the Council Directive on requirements for the budgetary frameworks of the Member States into national law, which should have taken place by the end of 2013. The State and local authorities are required to ensure sound and sustainable public finances as a necessary condition for promoting economic and social development, which enables high employment to be achieved and ensuring intergenerational cohesion. Healthy and sustainable public finances are among the main principles of the coordination of the economic policies of the Member States of the European Union, as regulated by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which considers them to be a means of strengthening the conditions for price stability and strong sustainable growth supported by financial stability, which helps achieve sustainable growth and employment objectives. In the Stability and Growth Pact following the Treaty, all Member States committed themselves to upholding the so-called "Stabilization and Growth Pact'. the medium-term budgetary objective to enable rapid progress towards the sustainability of public finances and to create room for government decision-making in the management of the budget, particularly as regards the needs of public investment. The proposed proposal further addresses the contradiction between the government's responsibility for respect for international fiscal discipline commitments and the instrument it has to do so. The government directly controls only selected central government, but fiscal and budgetary policies are implemented by all levels of government in the broadest sense. The Constitutional Act is therefore based on the same institutional coverage as it is used for budgetary surveillance in the European Union. At the constitutional level, the public institution undertakes to respect the rules of transparency, effectiveness, economy and efficiency of public finance management in carrying out its activities. I see the gravity of the proposed adjustment in the introduction of new numerical fiscal rules, which are already enshrined in its basis at the level of the constitutional law. As a basic fiscal rule, I consider the rule for determining the total expenditure of the public institutions sector. Its purpose is for public finances to be close to the medium-term budgetary objective in the medium term. The expenditure framework for the national budgets and budgets of state funds will be derived from compliance with the rule of the general expenditure of the public institutions sector. Follow-up legislation also proposes an automatic corrective mechanism that should permanently return public finances to the medium-term budgetary objective. The principle rule is consistent with the requirements of the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union. A specific rule is proposed for individual local authorities, which, in the interests of sound and sustainable public finances, will be managed so as to ensure that the amount of their individual total debts does not exceed the limit laid down by the Act on budgetary liability rules. In the event of a lack of effectiveness of those rules reflecting an increase in the debt-debt situation of the financial sector, it is proposed to introduce a debt limit of 55 per cent of GDP in order to implement measures in the public sector leading to a long-term sustainable state of public finances. As with previous numerical fiscal rules, the specific form of the rule is defined in particular by the draft law on budgetary liability rules. Last but not least, it is proposed by constitutional law to establish a National Budget Board, which will act as an independent expert body in the area of fiscal and budgetary policy. Its task will be to monitor the development of the management of the public finances sector and, in particular, to comply with constitutional law established rules, which it will also evaluate. The President and two other members of the Council will be elected by the Chamber of Deputies. Details relating to their functioning will be laid down by the Act on Rules of Budget Responsibility. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-010-008.u3	Thank you. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Constitutional Legal Committee, and the Committee on Health has taken an initiative to discuss the press. The committee resolution was delivered as the House's press 411/1 to 5. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Václav Votava, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-010-008.u4	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, the Minister here is the main principles of these three related laws, namely the Constitutional Act on budgetary responsibility, which he has already said, so I will not talk about it, and I will limit myself only to the resolution of the Committee on Budgets, which I would like to introduce you to. Otherwise, I assume that, once the individual points, the three related, are opened, a merged debate will be opened.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-010-008.u5	So far, no one has read this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-010-008.u6	Okay, so I suggest we then merge the debate with both general and detailed points 8, 9 and 10. I would now like to introduce you to the budget committee's resolution on the Government's draft constitutional law on budgetary responsibility. It is the resolution of the 29th meeting of 14 October 2015. Following the opening words of Deputy Minister of Finance Gregor, the Votava News Report and the debate, the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament recommends to the Chamber of Deputies that the Government's draft constitutional law on budgetary responsibility, the Parliament's press 411, approve without comment, and empowers the rapporteur to introduce this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, which I also did. [[The President Asks for Peace]] Otherwise, I am reporting to the general debate. Merged, I suppose, if it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-010-008.u7	Yes. I will vote on your proposal after the rapporteur's report, if you will allow me to say so. I would now like Mr Martin Plíšek to take the floor of the rapporteur of the constitutional committee, to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committee and to justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-010-008.u8	Madam President, dear colleagues, let me inform you of the resolution of the constitutional committee of the 34th meeting of 3 June 2015. Following the justification of the Deputy Minister of Finance and the report, the Constitutional Committee interrupts press discussion 411 and, secondly, asks the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Jan Hamáček, to convene a meeting of representatives of all member clubs on the draft constitutional law on budgetary responsibility in order to find sufficient support for the adoption of this draft constitutional law. I merely add that, according to my information, this meeting of representatives of all Members' clubs did not take place. I therefore advise that I report to the debate and allow myself to propose a further procedure to the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-010-008.u9	Yes, thank you. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mrs Soňa Marková, to inform us of the discussion of the committee proposal and to justify any amendments. I don't see Mrs Marková, so I'd like someone from the Health Committee to take over the intelligence report. [[No one's checking in. After a while.]] He's here. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-010-008.u10	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, I apologize for the delay. The Health Committee discussed the press, but without any resolution. Basically, he didn't say anything about it, so I'm gonna say it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-010-008.u11	Thank you. And at the moment, we should deal with the vote on Mr Votava's procedural proposal to merge the general debate - we cannot merge in detail, because the amendments must be separate to individual laws - the merger of the general debate on points 8, 9 and 10. I'll call my colleagues from the lobby. And before I vote, I'm going to put you all out. Please sign up with your cards again. At this point, I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour, raise your hand and press the button. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with serial number 95, to which 123 are registered, for 118, against no one. I note that the proposal has been adopted and that the general debate on points 8, 9 and 10 will be merged. I am interrupting item number 8 and opening item number
