ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-001-009.u1	9. Government bill amending Act No. 130/2002 Coll., on the promotion of research, experimental development and innovation from public funds and on the amendment of certain related laws (the Act on the Promotion of Research, Experimental Development and Innovation), as amended /German press 489/ - second reading Before discussing this House press on 25 November 2015 at the 36th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, we approved the procedural proposal of Mr František Laudát and we translated the meeting until 11 December 2015. The point was not discussed at this time. So please - and I see that they have already done so, that the Vice-President of the Government has taken up his seat at the rapporteur's table, as well as the rapporteur of this press. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Economic Committee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House Press 489/1-3. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Mr František Vácha take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-001-009.u2	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said, this is an amendment to the Government Act amending Act No. 130 on the promotion of research, experimental development and innovation from public funds. This is the House Press 489, which you received on 22 May 2015. Madam President mentioned that the Guarantee Committee is the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. He discussed the bill at his 18th meeting on 6 November 2015. The order bears the printing number 480/2. I'd introduce you to him. The Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports of the 18th meeting of 5 November 2015 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 130/2002 Coll., on the promotion of research, experimental development and innovation from public funds and on the amendment of certain related laws. The Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, after the reasons of Deputy Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek and the report by Mr Vácha and after the debate, recommends: The Chamber of Deputies agree with the Government's bill amending Act No. 130. Furthermore, he instructs the President of the committee of Mr Zlatuška to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies and instructs me, the rapporteur, to present this resolution at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. As you have already heard, the second reading began on 25 November 2015 at our 36th meeting and was suspended until today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-001-009.u3	Thank you and I will now ask the Vice-President of the Government Pavel Bělobrádek - I apologize to you for skipping over - to introduce us to the proposed bill. And I would also like to ask if anyone in the Economic Committee can take up the post of Mrs Putn's report. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-001-009.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, we are at second reading, so I will briefly mention what the amendment to Act 130/2002 Coll., on the promotion of research, experimental development and innovation. The submitted amendment was prepared in response to the new European rules establishing public support. They entered into force on 1 July 2014 and introduced a number of changes to the public aid rules which conflict with the existing wording of the R&D Support Act. In particular, the basic terminology that has already been experienced has changed, which in practice has resulted in confusion and differing views on the interpretation of the law in relation to the new European regulations. Certain legal and interpretation uncertainty was growing, including uncertainty as to whether certain provisions of the law were de facto nullified by the different directly applicable provisions of the Commission Regulation. In the draft law in question, we have therefore agreed to unify and adapt national European legislation. This is, therefore, not a technical amendment in the true sense, but a harmonisation amendment, which we want to prevent possible collisions in terms of the principle of direct effect of the applicability of European Union law. Following this proposal, we are already preparing a completely new law focusing on more comprehensive conceptual changes in support of research, development and innovation. It should, among other things, also introduce other instruments and categories of support which the European Commission considers compatible with internal market rules and which are not yet enshrined in our national legislation. The Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Guarantee and Economic Committee recommends that the draft law be approved as submitted by the Government. A comprehensive amendment by Members of Pilný, Putnová, Rais and Zlatuška has also been widely discussed within both of them. Since I have a fairly clear and comprehensive idea of the direction in which research, experimental development and innovation in the Czech Republic should be encouraged in the future, which is moving away with some of the intentions of the original comprehensive amendment by Mr Pilný and others, I considered it appropriate to initiate roundtable negotiations in December 2015 where the current and future legislation on support for research, development and innovation was discussed in a broader context with the participation of representatives of a wide range of relevant actors. Subsequently, in January 2016, a closer working session was held with the petitioners of the amendment, on which the various provisions of the amendment were already discussed in detail. I can say with satisfaction that the outcome of these negotiations, as well as some other partial consultations, is the submission of such a modified text of the amendment, where there is agreement between us on most of the points. As an example, I would like to mention the introduction of some new instruments of support for the adoption of measures to reduce administrative burdens and eliminate certain minor uncertainties in the law. On the contrary, I continue to insist on the principle of a negative opinion on those points of the proposal aimed at extending the scope of the agencies, in particular the Czech Technical Agency, or the introduction of new categories of support, such as feasibility studies, without any serious analysis, which I consider to be a threat to the economical management of state funds in the area. I continue to believe that the promotion of research, development and innovation is too complex a material to fundamentally and comprehensively adapt to Parliament's amendments to the amendment to the law, which is only harmonised with European regulations. On the other hand, it should be noted that I will clearly agree with the proposers of the amendment that we need to change the existing system absolutely urgently. That is why I have initiated these negotiations, which, in my view, led to a mutually acceptable compromise. If the need to change the regulation of research, development and innovation is felt within the coalition and the opposition, I firmly believe that within the open discussion, which I naturally offer in this case, will also be found the forthcoming new law to adopt and approve. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-001-009.u5	Thank you and I now ask the rapporteur of the Economic Committee of Mr Jaroslav Klaška to take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and to justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-001-009.u6	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, honourable representatives of the Government, colleagues, allow me, on behalf of the Committee's rapporteur, to present the resolution of the Economic Committee of the 29th meeting of 12 November 2015 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 130/2002 Coll., on the promotion of research, experimental development and innovation from public funds and on the amendment of certain related laws. [[15.40 hours]] Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after hearing the opening words of Deputy Prime Minister for Science, Research and Innovation of Arnošt Marx, report by Mrs Anna Putnová and after a general and detailed debate I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic discuss and approve the Parliament's press 489 as amended by the Government Bill; II. empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the draftsman and legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, to make legislative technical amendments which do not affect the substance of the proposed law; III. Instructs the Committee rapporteur to present a report at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the results of this draft law in the Economic Committee; IV. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-001-009.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate to which I have registered three applications so far. First is Mr Pilný, Mr Rais will be prepared and then Mr Zlatuška will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-001-009.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I think that since an important law is already being opened, such as Act 130, on the promotion of science, research and innovation, it would be wrong for us, after two and a half years, when more and more money is being put into this sector and those results are far from satisfactory, which can simply be documented, to be satisfied that the result of the work of the office, which has been entrusted with this, is merely harmonisation of European law with Czech law. An amendment is tabled which I am co-authored and which was created on the initiative of the Confederation of Industry and Transport. It's not a shot in the dark, it's the work of a team of about 15 people after a few months. The group included people from universities, from the academy, from the Technological Agency, from the Grant Agency, etc. and the result was a comprehensive amendment, which is not a proposal that fundamentally changes the conditions of science, research and innovation, it is certainly a matter of further debate, but nevertheless brings great progress in three areas in particular. The first area is opening up a new co-financing option for commercial and public administration, which means a combination of commercial and public money. This is an important thing that, of course, the commercial sphere is calling for very much, and it would also certainly increase the share of the money that goes into science, research and innovation in this sphere. The second pillar is a change in funding. Several adjustments are proposed, such as backup funding, so that some projects that do not have the results originally planned by their authors do not have to be refunded. Finally, the third pillar is a register of research organisations with two functions. The first function is such that it is clearly defined what is and is not a research organisation, and then the public or European money that results from being allocated to an organisation that does not have such a character may not eventually be returned. Another function of this registry should be an information function, which means that the registry could lead to what the research organisation is doing because the commercial sphere is interested in the information. That is why this comprehensive amendment, which is included in the system, was tabled - I will then sign up for it in a detailed debate - under number 3582. After this amendment was tabled, as the Vice-President of the Government mentioned here, consultations were held between the authors of this proposal and the Vice-President's Office. These consultations have led to some provisions of the law being adapted, but there has been no agreement on everything, as has already been signaled by the Vice-President here. This proposal has been sent to all the bodies in the Chamber of Deputies and has been consulted and discussed. For this reason, as petitioners of the amendment, we will insist on this, or we will ask you to accept this amendment as it has been tabled, and I will then sign up to it in a detailed debate. [[There's a disturbing noise in the hall.]] Another amendment that addresses a situation where an amendment is not fully accepted is an amendment that only addresses the register of research organisations, which is under number 3857 in the system, and I will then apply to it as well. It is only an alternative to this amendment if it is not accepted comprehensively. The procedure proposed here by the Vice-President of the Government, that is, the procedure that leads to some kind of unification of science, research and innovation under one ministry, is certainly something that can be described as a procedure in the right direction. But it is not possible to solve it in a partial way, i.e. so that only organisations such as the Technological Agency and the Grant Agency will be included under any ministry that should be created next year, because that will do nothing more than transfer these agencies under service law and follow it and become official agencies, not agencies that should actually manage science, research and innovation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-001-009.u9	Ambassador, I'm sorry. I'm gonna ask the left-handed crowds to disband and not interrupt their loud talk. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-001-009.u10	What must be resolved in a fundamental way is that public money - of course, the State has the right to determine which direction the money will go, and it also has the right to demand the results of this money, how it was invested and how it turned out. There, of course, there is also a need to change the way projects are evaluated, which is not yet the subject of an amendment and is not the subject of a proposal for the establishment of a new Ministry. It is quite clear that if public money is spent for any purpose, it will reach two areas. The first area is public services which the state requires and which do not lead to any commercial result, but are in favour of the citizens of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-001-009.u11	Mr. Ambassador... I think I'll start making names. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-001-009.u12	The second area is then projects that are focused on the direction in which the Czech Republic is walking, which it simply needs, but which lead to specific applications or services, which can then be used. There you can assume the cooperation of the commercial sphere. The institution, which should actually manage the management of this money, should set out both of these areas and should also provide for a new way of evaluating these areas. When this happens, it will come to pass, based on discussions with individual organizations that manage this money, and those are hundreds, because it is not only the Technology and Grant Agency, the Academy of Sciences, universities, but it is the centres of excellence, which are 280, so only then will it be possible to look for consensus on how this money will be managed, let's say, in a much more central way than what is currently possible. However, this problem, in my view, will not be possible to resolve during the duration of this Chamber of Deputies. It is good to start a discussion about him. It's good to have a consensus. But now we have an open amendment to Act 130 on the table, and to settle for mere harmonisation between Czech and European directives would simply be a wasted opportunity. Therefore, all of you across the political spectrum, because the amendment has been tabled to everyone, I will ask for the support of this amendment. These amendments will also be discussed by the Guarantee Committee, which is the Education Committee, but will also be renegotiated by the Economic Committee, which has applied to it again following requests from several Members. We consider this issue very important because the future of the Czech Republic is based on it to some extent. And to settle for merely relatively toothless and older novels is simply not sufficient in my opinion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-001-009.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next in line, please, that's Mr. Rais. Mr. Mr. Zlatuška will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-001-009.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Have a good afternoon. Although, of course, I am applying to the text that my colleague Ivan Pilný said, I am going to address a partial change here, which is based on what the Deputy Prime Minister said here, that there is actually a change in terminology and some harmonisation of European Union legislation. And I'm more or less based on my personal experience. So the amendment is actually devoted to specifying costs, because in practice we have experienced many times the situation where the European Union, or more precisely, the European Union's materials, defined costs vaguely and the financial authorities' staff had difficulty recognizing what an acceptable or unacceptable cost is. We had our own problems at school, too, because we were scared too. We didn't know what it was acceptable - an unrecognizable load, where to put the particular load. And there was a similar situation on the part of companies. So it was pretty uncomfortable. [[15.50 hours]] So the point of my amendment is basically to specify what eligible costs are. In this amendment, I think they are defined in total precisely enough. The way it went down here, we discussed all the materials with the Stakeholder, that is, with the representatives of the Ministry, then with the Prime Minister's office, then with the university representatives, with the representatives of the Academy of Sciences. I am more or less taking this as a consensual matter and, in a detailed debate, I will sign up to my amendment, which has number 3377. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-001-009.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Zlatuška' microphone, please. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-001-009.u16	Madam President, Mr Vice Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as far as this law is concerned, I have two areas which I consider appropriate to change in such a way that they bind themselves to the fact that it is a harmonisation standard. And they bind themselves to what European Union standards are actually being passed in this law. The first heading concerning this is related to a framework which uses only a demonstrative list for the dissemination of research and development results, while at the time when we expand, this concerns the amendment of § 16 para. 4, we will extend the obligation of free dissemination of results both in scientific and in terms of licensing and transfer of knowledge, as well as in a categorical way as envisaged by the amendment proposal, we can significantly harm the possibility of producing these results in terms of established practice. In fact, the proposal envisages a transition to open access, which is actually taking place in an evolutionary way. It cannot be made from day to day in a way that would result from the diction of the law. I believe that it is therefore appropriate to reduce the wording in such a way as to allow for some kind of transitory phase. The second thing is, and it's really the same material, non-exclusive and non-discriminatory transfer of knowledge, used to be called technology transfer. If it were introduced in the manner stated by the amendment, it would in fact make it impossible to apply the intellectual rights mechanism to those licensed inventions or technical solutions. This would make it impossible, in particular, where the company takes on another task by buying a licence, to carry out other activities that mean substantial investments, such as clinical trials in the case of medicines. In fact, non-exclusive dissemination would mean that all competitors would be able to obtain those licences from those who would invest in clinical trials, and those clinical trials could not actually occur because there would be no return on investment. Within the European Commission, there is a requirement that all profits from these activities be reinvested in the primary activities of a research organisation or research infrastructure. The non-economic nature of these activities shall also be maintained in the case of the conferral of supplies of the corresponding services to third parties by means of an open procurement procedure. I think in this amendment, I can remove the taxative list, but leave this basic motivation here. Here in this area, I'm going to propose an amendment, which is a variant, there are options to deal with this here. The second area, in turn, concerns the terminology that is used in this area. In the explanatory memorandum to the amendment, it is said that the newly proposed text refers, where additional costs are involved, to the debate that took place in 2001 and does not change the terminology used. But the problem is that in a number of laws in related areas or standards that are binding on the recipients of finance, the petitioners cannot then agree on a uniform terminology and in decisions the concept of additional costs is commonly used apparently in terms of the indication of indirect or overhead costs. This is related to the shift that took place at the European Commission level in about 2007 when consensus on financial models began to change from what was called additional cost, i.e. the additional cost of solutions, to full cost, i.e. to fully quantify indirect costs. Specific examples can be found in national definitions of indirect costs, which in this case then sound completely illogical, make no sense and do not allow beneficiaries of finance to behave in a reasonable manner. That is why I believe that a simple refinement of what is actually meant by these additional costs is perfectly fine and there should be an explicit mechanism that will allow not only the additional cost but also the full cost to be used. The third proposal has to do with the fact that, at the time of the opening of the law which provides finance, and the Vice Prime Minister rightly stressed that it is necessary to pay attention to the provision of funds to scientific institutions of economy, not to waste the resources and that this is also the motivation of a number of elements of the law, so the system's dysfunction, specifically with regard to universities, which are essentially financed from more than one place in the state budget and this funding looks radically different depending on where it comes from. The funding for educational activities ceased some time ago in the form of a subsidy that is billable at the end of each year. Some part of it could be transferred, the rest of it coming back. But it went to the model of providing a contribution to educational activities, which allows for substantially more economic year-on-year treatment of the finances. However, in the case of an institutional contribution to research and development activities, the model remains that universities receive funding in the form of grants and therefore have to keep really double accounts of individual flows of finance. For example, Senator Hampl, former Rector of Charles University and long-time President of the Czech Rectors' Conference, has recently drawn attention to this particular issue in the debate on the Law on Higher Education in the Senate. Of course, in the law itself, this has not been dealt with. [[16.00 hours]] Here I consider it appropriate to use the mechanism already prepared for funding universities and to declare to universities that the standardized amount of institutional support for research and development will not be granted to universities in the form of a special-purpose subsidy, but in a form which will be consistent with the contribution to educational activities. This does not change any demands for funding, only within the management of universities would there be a much more rational treatment of the finances and a significant reduction of the completely unnecessary administration, which is the current state of affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-001-009.u17	I thank and ask if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. I ask the appellant whether he is interested in the final word or whether he will wait for it after a detailed debate. [[He's not interested.]] The rapporteur? Not either. I therefore initiate a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. I now ask for the microphone of Mr Pilný, who is the first to be entered into a detailed debate. Mr. Rais will be ready after him. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-001-009.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I am signing up for the amendment, which is in the system under number 3582. It is an amendment by the authors, by me, Professor Rais, Zlatuška and Mrs Putnová. I also claim an alternative to that register of research organisations, which is the House's press of 3857. [[by document]] I think that I have already made the justification for both Houses of Press in the general debate and that it is sufficient. [[documents]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-001-009.u19	Thank you, and please, to Mr. Rais's microphone. Mr. Mr. Zlatuška will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-001-009.u20	Hello. As I said in the previous speech, I am now signing up for Amendment 3377, which is dedicated to specifying the definition of costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-001-009.u21	Thank you. I'd like to see Mr. Zlatuška' mike. Mr Mihola and then the rapporteur, Mr Vácha, will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-001-009.u22	Madam President. As I have announced, I am applying to Amendments 3400, this is the proposal concerning the dissemination of results, and then the proposals 3889 and 3890. These are the other two proposals I was just talking about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-001-009.u23	Thank you. I'd like to see Mr. Mihola's mike.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-001-009.u24	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I would allow myself to sign up for the amendment, which is included in the system as House document 3898, and then to the House document, which is under number 3900. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-001-009.u25	Thank you. And now I beg the rapporteur Vácha, who is also reporting for a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-001-009.u26	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for the amendments that I have read into the system under number 3230. That's three. One relates to the definition of research organisations, the other to clarify the definition of research infrastructure, the third to re-establish the competition for research projects. And Amendment 3802, where the risk of applying the GBER regime to institutions carrying out non-economic activities is addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-08-ps2013-042-05-001-009.u27	I thank and ask if anyone else is still reporting for a detailed debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the detailed debate. Do I question the appellant, the rapporteur? They are not interested in the final word, and I therefore conclude with this second reading of this proposal. We'll move on to the next point, and that's it.
