ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-007-074.u1	74. Government bill on the protection of the conservation of the conservation fund and on the amendment of Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended (Law on the Protection of the Monument Fund) /German press 666/ - first reading Minister of Culture Daniel Herman is present. I would also ask Mr Roman Procházka to take up seats at the rapporteur's table because he is the rapporteur for first reading. And at this point, I'm asking the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman to take the floor and, under the authority of the government, state the press. But before you speak, Minister, I will ask the House for peace! I would like us to discuss in a dignified environment a bill that certainly has its weight for the Czech Republic. Cultural monuments are the treasure of our state, so many tourists come here for them. Please, I think you can, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-007-074.u2	Thank you, Mr President, colleagues. Allow me to justify and briefly bring the new law on the protection of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation fund. The proposed bill is a comprehensive expected fundamental legal standard, which aims to highlight the public interest in the protection of the conservation of the conservation fund and to create conditions for the care of the fund necessarily linked to other related laws, in particular the administrative order, the construction law, the law on basic registers, the new civil code, the cadastral law and others. At the same time, it brings an essential element of transparency into the whole regulation. The most important changes and new mechanisms for the care of cultural heritage can be summarised in the following way. Possibility to compensate the costs of property owners in landmarks. The introduction of tools to respond to non-compliance with the obligations of the owner of the cultural monument or owner of the property located in the land of monuments. Change in the nature of the central list of cultural monuments and its link to the basic registers, in particular the territorial identification register. Involvement of the adjustment with obligations under international agreements. Elimination of unnecessary administrative burden as part of the restoration of the conservation fund. Modification of the conditions for carrying out constructional historical research, comprehensive archaeology and archaeological research. Strengthening the powers of the Monument Inspection, the adjustment of penalties for non-compliance or breach of obligations in accordance with the Government-approved regulation of administrative punishment by the Act on Liability for and Procedure for Infractions and the Act on Certain Infractions. The bill does not foresee increased demands on the state budget. Any costs will be borne by the Ministry of Culture within its chapter. Effectiveness is proposed on 1 January 2018 in order to ensure sufficient time for preparation for a new legal environment in this area. I would also like to say here that the Ministry of Culture has cooperated with the entities concerned with the care of the conservation fund, i.e. owners of important segments of cultural heritage, state and public authorities, civil associations, universities, independent experts, professional and research institutions. I therefore propose that the Chamber of Deputies release this proposal bringing significant positive changes to the second reading for more than a quarter-century. Thank you for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-007-074.u3	I thank the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman and ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Roman Procházka to present his report. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-007-074.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed Act on the Protection of the Monument Fund completely replaces the existing legislation expressed in Act No. 20/1987 Coll., on State Monument Care, as amended, hereinafter referred to as the Act on State Monument Care. In view of the time at which the State Heritage Act was written, it is clear that the law did not provide for a transition to the market economy and to the private property institute, which could not be healed by numerous amendments to the Act. The preparation of the new Act on the Protection of the Monument Fund began already in 2012, with the final version of the proposed Act being a compromise result of several years of meeting of the Ministry of Culture with a broad spectrum of interest groups and stakeholders. The proposed law aims to protect, preserve, exploit, maintain, present and transfer cultural heritage to future generations. The proposed law thus brings greater possibilities for the protection of the conservation of the conservation fund, new means of conservation of monuments and a balance between the protection of the public interest and the private interests of owners of cultural monuments, including economic compensation for the real limitations of property rights. At the same time, the proposed law is in accordance with current laws of the Czech Republic and international conventions. Among other things, the proposed law on the protection of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation fund provides for example the possibility for the conservation authorities to intervene in the event of threats or damage to cultural monuments threatened not by the owner, but due to inactivity by a third party, newly regulates the implementation of constructional historical research as one of regulated activities under this law, in addition to restorers and archaeologists. It is construction-historical surveys today, besides archeology, that provide fundamental sources for the development of architecture and urbanism. The law also reduces the administrative burden of the National Heritage Institute, anchors higher social control of the protection of architectural heritage by coming up with the possibility of active participation of the organized public through, for example, associations or generally beneficial companies engaged in similar activities. The catalogue of rights and obligations of the owner of the cultural monument is newly anchored. Sightseeing reservations and sightseeing zones will be newly constituted by means of measures of a general nature, as opposed to the present way of creating a conservation or conservation zone by issuing a generally binding legislation, which will again bring greater participation of property owners concerned by the declaration of a conservation or conservation zone. In view of the above, I recommend the Government's draft Act on the Protection of the Monument Fund and on the Amendment of Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on administrative fees, as amended, let into second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-007-074.u5	Thank you, Mr rapporteur, and you are the first to be logged in to the debate, and then I note Mrs Černochová and Mr Korte's application. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador, now in your performance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-007-074.u6	Thank you again. I have just introduced the proposed Act on the Protection of the Monument Fund from the position of the House rapporteur, but I would also like to speak to the proposed Act from the chair of the Sub-Committee on Culture. At its meetings, the Culture Sub-Committee has dealt with the preparation of the Act on the Protection of the Monument Fund since the beginning of this parliamentary term, namely at its 3rd meeting on 28 May 2014, 18 September 2014 and 18 February this year. Representatives of the Ministry of Culture were invited to these meetings, who presented the law in detail and explained its positives and pitfalls. At the meeting held on 18 September 2014, representatives of the National Heritage Institute, representatives of the Artistic Society in the Czech Republic, representatives of the Association of Museums and Galleries of the Czech Republic, representatives of the Association of Historical Sites of Bohemia, Moravia and Silesia and representatives of the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic were invited. The Ministry of Culture has been dealing with the comments of the various stakeholders and often with quite different interests, whether on the subcommittee itself, and at its meetings with the bodies concerned, which the Ministry of Culture organised as part of the preparatory work. All the minutes of the meeting, the settlement of comments and the various texts of the bills were published by the Ministry at all times on its website. Now that the long-awaited bill has come to the House of Deputies' agenda, it is beginning to come to the forefront of the various interest groups affected by the law and begin to apply its new comments. However, many of these comments have already been dealt with by the Ministry of Culture as part of the preparation of the law, or these comments have not been made at all during the preparatory negotiations. Some comments are based on a lack of understanding of the various provisions of the law or legislative ignorance. Although it may seem to the uninterested persons, on the basis of the number of comments made, that the draft law is completely wrong and unacceptable, the law mainly provides for the anchoring of new principles and the balance of individual interests involved, whether they are owners of monuments, archaeologists, workers of building-historic research, developers, restorers, architects, municipalities, regions and, last but not least, the state. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the currently completely unsatisfactory legal situation in the field of conservation care, in view of the long preparatory work of the Ministry of Culture and the time of the various groups concerned, which have expressed their interest in attending preparatory meetings with representatives of the Ministry of Culture, and in view of the work of Members in the subcommittee on culture, please give this proposal a chance to discuss further readings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-007-074.u7	Thank you, Mr Roman Procházka. Now, Mrs Černochová. Before taking the floor, I will say an apology to the Minister of Education Kateřina Valachová from today's meeting since 11.30. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-007-074.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not share the optimism presented by the Minister of Culture, Herman or the rapporteur, and I do not share it because I have really devoted very much to the draft law, and I have also worked with my colleagues within the capital city of Prague, where, as you know, part of Prague is in the regime of monuments, namely the part of the city where I work as mayor. Half of our territory is a landmark zone, half of our territory is a conservation reserve, so I think I definitely have something to say on this subject. And because I wanted to proceed seriously, the comments I have gathered from my fellow experts in the relevant town halls have been passed on to the rapporteur, it is sometimes two months ago. So the rapporteur has and knows my comments. [[There's noise in the hall.]] Let me speak to this bill first on a more general level. Yes, the Act on the Protection of the Monument Fund replaces, above all, the existing obsolete Act of Socialism on State Monument Care. It was a law from 1987. There must be a number of improvements in this bill. It will allow the authorities to respond better to cases where the owner does not care about the memory, which I very much appreciate, because we really can't call here for example -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-007-074.u9	Madame, I will interrupt you for a moment and ask the House once again for peace. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-007-074.u10	- for example, at the cultural monument of Vyšehrad railway station, which is on our territory, so there is no intervention from the Ministry of Culture or the City of Prague and its Department of Monument Care. It is also a good thing in this draft law that works in a conservation zone, in a conservation conservation zone are excluded from the jurisdiction of the conservation authorities, unless the work requires permission or notification to the building office and interferes with the external appearance of the building or the property. In Prague 2 at Vinohrady and in Nuslích, if it is not a protected object, a large number of builders will be deprived of the obligation to discuss the matter with the conservationists. For example, internal reconstructions, medical technical installations, etc. can be involved. But it is not clear from the proposal why the same could not apply to the reservation, which is in our case Vyšehrad or Nové Město [[11.50 hours]] Despite some partial benefits, the bill extends the competence of the state over the proposed law and, unfortunately, it deepens bureaucracy in a very fundamental way, introducing new institutes such as a conservation plan for landmarks and competences. In a general all-embracing argument on the protection of cultural heritage, the broad, factually unbounded competence of the authorities of the state administration is proposed, while forgetting such a small detail, and I ask that all those who run for regional elections or have already worked at city hall after the regional elections. The involvement of municipalities and regions has been forgotten! Can the Minister then explain to us how this is possible when it was said that everyone was consulted? Unfortunately, I have information that some of the opinions then changed the expert institutions when they learned what the final proposal was. But I really consider this to be a fundamental mistake when the involvement and discussion within the municipalities, regions and municipalities is completely removed from this. The bill does not remove the most pressing problems encountered by property owners and municipalities. These include, inter alia, support in this case, the quantity over quality, the congestion of the conservation authorities with less significant issues, including special-purpose interruptions and non-compliance with deadlines. So it's not true that there's going to be any speeding up. It doesn't speed up, it slows down. Maintaining socialism declared landmarks without concreteization. Those are really things that have been going on for almost 40 years here, and instead of getting someone to work with it and redefining them, they're gonna petrify themselves. Inserting a vast scope of competence of the conservation authorities without establishing a clearly defined substantive scope, as is the case with other public authorities. Even in this case, I do not know how something so important has been missed by the Minister. Other state authorities have quite clearly defined boundaries in the laws, in what and how they can apply the powers of the State, whether they are firefighters, transporters, construction offices, health workers, etc. On the other hand, the monument care body has a completely unbiased scope limited only to the scope of the site and not to the possibility of State intervention. The possibility of individual subjective assessment is not specified in any way, so the public is seen as a dictatorship with little defence. And I can actually confirm this from my own practice, especially in Prague, where the draft law introduces a two-stage procedure - the City Council and the Ministry - compared to the rest of the Republic where the management is three-stage: municipalities with extended scope, the Regional Authority, the Ministry. Why will Prague have a different way than the rest of the Republic? How is it possible that there will be only two degrees here, Minister? The individual provisions. Section 2 and Section 3 - Definition of terms. In the case of statutory cities, it is not clear whether the concept of a municipality applies to urban areas when the concept of a municipality is not specified in Section 3. Please note here you who are Members of various political parties from our capital city of Prague, or of course there are other statutory cities that have urban areas or urban districts. Furthermore, in this section 2 and 3 in the definition of the term of work, its extension to the location and removal of the advertising and information banner - equipment which is not subject to the construction law. In addition to terminology, the provisions of Section 3 include substantive scope for certain types of information and advertising trailers which do not belong to that provision. This above-standard scope, often related to any furniture, needs to be abolished. Instead, a regulation can already be issued today, which can regulate the placement of information and advertising pilgrims which are not subject to a permit under the construction law in the landmarks. In Prague already such a regulation, and has number 26/2005 Sb., the capital city of Prague, as amended, for the territory of Prague sightseeing reservation and part of the adjacent territory already exists. There is certainly a similar possibility for other municipalities, and there is absolutely no need, Minister, for this matter to be dealt with by the law for the protection of the conservation of the conservation fund. I would even dare to suggest a way here so I wouldn't just be the one who criticizes something and doesn't propose a solution. Here I think it would be possible, Minister, for the concept of work to cancel this text - I quote: "the placement and removal of advertising and information banners, if not a building bill'. The law should make it clear that the authority's competence does not apply to furniture and similar rigid, short-lived elements, otherwise, dear colleagues and colleagues, we will soon learn from the state and this will determine what people should wear and in which cars people should drive. Article 4 (1) (a) of CRR Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) 5 - the difference in the definition of conservation and conservation zone is minimal and differs only by an unspecified degree of exceptionality. This is an indefinite difference where defending the interests of the State subsequently depends on a completely subjective assessment. These two types of territory do not differ at all in the provisions on the declaration of the land of monuments as well as in the care of the land of monuments or in the conservation plan for the conservation of the land of monuments. It's Section 26 to 34. Here too, Minister, I would like to propose a constructive solution and recommend that the difference between the reservation and the zone in the law be clearly and factually defined. Then it'll have meaning to me. Next. Article 3 (b) of CRR. (c) - so called. mediation of the monument fund. The term gives the impression of the trade in monuments, and I don't think we want anybody to do that. Article 3 (b) of CRR. g) - Work in the landmark- is among other things: "planting and felling of trees in the public area in the built-up area." This shows nicely that trees outside the public area, when I use the Prague 2 case again, for example Havlíčk's orchards or Lostenka in Prague 2, are not worth anything. Public spaces are to be accessible to everyone in terms of the law on municipalities and the law on the capital city of Prague, Mr. Minister - everyone! - and without restrictions. This is not fulfilled at much of the parks or even castle gardens. There, of course, it comes across vandalism and sociopathological phenomena and closes at night. But the life of trees is incomparably smaller compared to the life of real estate monuments. You are proposing completely unnecessary bureaucracy to somewhere where it should be left to the will of municipalities, not to order something in quotes by ministerial decree, or by law. Here, too, I have a proposal for a solution, Minister. I would suggest that the conservation authority of the conservation fund is the authority concerned only in the case of the decision of the competent authority in the proceedings on memorable, memorial trees, which I think would have been entirely in line with what I was just saying here. Section 6 - sightseeing inspection. The memorial inspection is intended to check the performance of the delegation only at the Regional Authority, not at the municipalities with extended scope. The scope of the Regional Authority in relation to municipalities with extended scope does not cover the full scope of the conservation inspection. I don't know if you're aware of that. [[12.00 hours]] Section 8 and 9 - Municipal authorities with extended scope. It is not clear here, Minister, whether statutory cities can transfer the powers of state administration to the authorities of the urban areas. Once again, there are a number of mayors who are from the city districts or the city districts. Here, I think maybe I do. But again, as I said, it is completely in contrast with § 9, with Prague, where the use of the status is irrationally prohibited. The powers of conservation care in Prague are centralized to the Prague City Hall, which, according to § 9 - again let me quote - "executes the jurisdiction of the regional authority and the municipal community with extended scope". That, Minister, would be the law that the city section in Prague cannot become a concerned body in the section of conservation care, nor can it be entrusted to it by the statute. You hear me well. It can't even be entrusted to her by the statute. Among other things, they continue to accumulate their powers at the City Council compared to the powers of the city districts, which is, in the occasional society to which you like to refer, at least striking. In the capital city of Prague, Minister, the professional level of municipal authorities is usually higher, so I do not want to touch smaller municipalities in any way, but also because every official solves cases much more than officials in small municipalities, where they get into a situation with solving a case, perhaps less often. So, as I said, the authorities of the municipalities with extended scope are somewhat less frequent. Bringing jurisdiction to urban areas where there is more real estate cultural monuments, and where the landmarks are declared, would be appropriate. Not only in Prague, but also in other parts of the law it is further accumulation of power to the highest possible level. On the contrary, in my view, decentralization of powers would be logical. And you can understand that I, as a member of the ODS, will propose things that will lead to decentralization, not centralization, as the current government puts these proposals forward to us one by one. For me, on the contrary, the logical decentralisation of powers and the related transfer of responsibility and performance in the area of conservation to urban areas, which directly affect the problems. The City Council of Prague would perform state administration on the section of conservation care at the level of the regional authority and primarily only where the scope would not be transferred by the statute to the municipal parts. This requirement can also be justified by the so-called carrying out proficiency tests. I think that this would really be a good thing. What I suggest. I suggest, Minister, that Section 9. When you open § 15 - The role of the public in protecting the architectural heritage. It sounds very noble. In addition to foundations and associations, they should be able to act as public and to request information in advance on all proceedings initiated, as well as the self-government of municipalities and urban areas on whose territory work will be discussed within the meaning of the terms set out in Section 3 (2) of the Act. (d) a draft law. In Section 16 in points 2 to 5 and in Section 17 - Research and documentation in the field of conservation care. According to these paragraphs, research and documentation in the field of conservation care would be carried out only and only by a monument institute, called. N.O.P.U. This is not, Minister, in accordance with the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, according to which freedom of scientific research must be guaranteed. And I'm surprised you're the one who's suggesting it. It is the Minister who is from the same side as the Vice Prime Minister for Science and Research. You probably didn't talk enough about these things in KDU-ČSL, because I can't explain it any other way. § 18 et seq. - Cultural monument. The proceedings for the declaration and the abolition of cultural and national cultural monuments lack such a small detail - that the municipality and the municipal part should be a party to the proceedings in statutory cities, including the capital city of Prague. This, ladies and gentlemen, should indeed be our very essential and very important requirement. I'm not gonna strain you on what I'm gonna suggest at the end, but I really want to draw your attention to other things, so I'm gonna keep talking. But I don't think the law is prepared to vote on it. That we should agree today. And perhaps the Minister will not be offended that we will approve this bill to him within the framework of the Rules of Procedure, where it is written about a re-evaluation. This means that the Minister, if he does not want to withdraw him himself, because he really is very bad, the Chamber of Deputies will vote as a sovereign by a majority of its votes back to recast and we will get a different proposal here. A proposal that will correspond to everything that the amendment to the 21st century conservation law is intended to address and will copy how public administration works in the Czech Republic. It won't take things out of context and forget about statutory cities where they have urban areas or urban districts. § 23 - Cancellation of the declaration for cultural monument. The uncertainty of the concept of so-called extremely serious interest. There is no precise definition of the possibility of abolishing a declaration of cultural heritage. It outweighs another extremely serious interest in protecting cultural monuments. It is not intended what and whose interest it is, please nicely. [[with emphasis]] If by any chance one of the officials, Mr. Secretary, didn't mean public interest. But you have to check that out at your ministry. Section 26 - A motion for a declaration of landmark. Current landmarks were published, respectively. As a rule, declared in times of socialism, we have already said that here without meeting the requirements of the current bill. It was declared in several ways and often very vaguely, or vaguely. As a rule, there is no indication of what the nature of protection is. That's what protects itself and protects itself. This gives the authorities the opportunity, Minister, to abuse, abuse their position and illegal practices by applicants. And here I think that if this government declares itself to be a government that fights corruption, it goes completely beyond all your statements that you say. Because here, on the contrary, you're giving corruption so much scope that it's unprecedented. Here I would like to suggest again that I am not the one who is destructing something, but who is trying to co-create something. So I think it would be possible to deal with this in a way that the proposal will be discussed with the municipality and the city. All declared landmarks have to be declared again and shortcomings must be corrected. It is appropriate to give the competent authority, i.e. the Government and the Ministry, a legal period. Let's say three years, four years, five years. That will depend on what the Minister will want. [[12.10 hours]] Section 32 and 34 - Plan for the protection of the conservation of the land of monuments. Reservations and zones. It is a completely redundant institute, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. From the position of state administration the protection of the conservation of the land of monuments should be clearly stated in the declaration of the land of monuments pursuant to § 26. If this is not the case, then it is necessary to cancel the declaration of the land of monuments and declare it again in accordance with the rules laid down in this draft law. That makes sense. The protection plan would complicate the whole matter and delegate to the Regional Authority a detailed statement issued by the Ministry. Instead of simplifying the administration, it will be a strengthening of official bureaucracy again and will lead to confusion in the application of the rights of owners and builders established by the Constitution of the Czech Republic and all constitutional laws. Instead of declaring protection plans, the current declarations of landmarks should be cancelled and replaced by new ones under the conditions laid down in this draft law. So I would take the liberty of suggesting that section 32 to 34 be deleted. Section 47 (1) (a) 3 - Assessment of work on cultural monuments. Assessment and discussion of works in the land of monuments should always be without exceptions. This means stating which work is required and not requiring an assessment of the body of conservation care. Turn that principle around, Minister. The current text allows various interpretations, such as work at monuments inside the landmark or within the monument zone. Here again, I would constructively suggest something for you to edit. Change the text of the paragraphs in this way: Work in a landmark that changes the appearance of a building or a plot would be for c). (d) it would be: work in a conservation conservation zone which alters the appearance of a building or land; An assessment shall not be required where a measure of a general nature defining a conservation conservation zone is excluded. And it would have been solved. And, of course, delete paragraphs 3 and 4. Section 50, par. 3 - Request for assessment of work in the conservation area and conservation zone. In accordance with this provision, the applicant must be the owner. The provision should either be identical to § 48 (1) (a) and (b). 3, or better would be to use the term not owner but builder for construction work. From the construction law it has a clear definition and the definition is in § 2 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (c). The opinion of the body of monument care is followed equally by the procedure under the construction law, so that the existing disproportion of the body of monument care would be dropped against the situation at the building office. You know, this exclusive use of the term the owner accumulates a number of formal and administrative problems, because in the public space it is in the vast majority of cases either the authorized builder, or he is another land owner and another owner of the construction or engineering networks. If I were to give an example of Prague, we have it in Prague with the Technical Administration of Communications, with the Transport Company of the capital city of Prague, with Prague distribution etc. § 51 - Statement of the Monument Institute. It remains the duty of the body of conservation care to inform the authority of the request for extradition...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-007-074.u11	I'm very sorry, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I'm going to ask for peace of mind in the courtroom. Those of you having conversations, please transfer them to the machine guns. Thank you. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-007-074.u12	Could I have a rag, please? I had a little accident here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-007-074.u13	O rag - well, I'll try to arrange a rag.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-007-074.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. So § 51 - expression of the monument institute. It lasts...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-007-074.u15	I thank the honourable Member, it is obvious that the gentlemen have not yet died out. I'd even go get you that rag, but I can't get up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-007-074.u16	I understand you're alone, Mr. Vice-President. You shouldn't be replaced. Thank you. Thank you to Dan Korte... [[Vote from the plenary: Through the President. Laughs in the hall.]] Through Mr President, I thank Dan Korte.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-007-074.u17	Thank you. So, please, let's continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-007-074.u18	§ 51 - Statement of the Monument Institute. It remains the duty of the body to inform the monument care authority of the request for the opinion of the monument institute. The provision obliges the Monument Institute to respond to information within 20 days, plus there is a time limit for delivery. This is about maintaining the current state bureaucracy, which often greatly prolongs the discussion of applications. In a large part of cases, it is routine or minor, which must be able to be assessed by the body of conservation care itself without the institution's expression. Indeed, this expression is redundant here, and that provision can be seen as documenting the small competence of the conservation authorities and the failure of the State to raise relevant and genuine experts in these bodies. Here again, I have a proposal for an adjustment, and the amendment could be so that the provisions of Section 51 would be amended that the body of conservation services will only request an assessment of the Institute when it concerns a complicated matter or if it needs documentation from the Institute for its binding opinion. And that would be a solution that doesn't burden either side. The same would apply if the applicant contested the binding opinion or decision of the institution so that everyone would be able to claim their rights in this form. Section 57, par. Article 4 (1) (a) d) - Cultural monument in relation to abroad. I don't know how sensitive you are to words, I quite a lot, and I think that there are a number of colleagues here, including Dan Korte, through the Vice-President, who are both in these sciences and studied. And if it is in the proposal, the statement there is that the transfer of the monument abroad for reasons, and now let me quote, "personal needs of the owner of the cultural monument," we feel that it is incorrect and that it is so incredibly general that we cannot even imagine a particular situation under it. Section 114 and 115 - Temporary authorisation to carry out regulated activities within the scope of freedom of service. In practice, they apply for the restoration work of a company that is proved by a restorer with a license, but they hire cheap labor without qualifications. I would like to say the word "svarcsystem" here, and I apologize, through the Vice-President, to my colleague Broňa. This leads to unprofessional and unfortunately irreversible interventions on sights and their devastation. Of course, I'm not always saying that, but if in other professions, in other chambers, we play the expertise, so where else would it be besides cultural monuments? Therefore, Minister, it might be worth setting up a mandatory chamber of restorers under this law, whether it be CKA, CKAIT. I think it's at your discretion, and I will support you in this mercy. Indeed, as in the draft law you have in the current regulation, where - I quote again - "a person temporarily entitled to perform regulated activities" so this person does not solve this problem at all. § 138 - Concerning the interests of conservation care. It follows from the provision that the assessment of the municipal authority of the municipality with extended scope is a decision where that matter is not competent to decide by another administrative authority. And it's absurd here that for a number of very simple, really simple things that the construction office doesn't even decide under the construction law, the body of monument care should decide. That can't seem normal to you. [[12.20 hours]] Really, the law is very badly prepared. And I was just saying here in the opening word that it's not true that everyone would be thrilled to say, "Oh, the law is wonderful, we want it, and we can't wait to see when it's going to pay." On the contrary. A number of professional organisations have turned to us as Members, sending us long, long parties of critical comments on this law. So I don't know where you get the confidence that you can claim that you have their approval here in front of us and in front of the public and that they're looking forward to the standard. It doesn't. They are terrified of this standard and the adoption of this standard. I will allow you to read the opinion of the Association for Construction Historical Survey on the Bill on the Protection of the Monument Fund and on the amendment of Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on Administrative Fees, as amended. It is therefore the law on the protection of the conservation of the conservation fund with comments on some provisions of the proposal: The draft law on the protection of the conservation of the conservation fund is unconceptual and professionally completely misleading. It is based on the legislation in force, which, however, eliminates certain best practices, while others, for practice inappropriate, retain, as a result of which the public interest in the protection of cultural heritage is being suppressed, but at the same time does not receive the most important free service for owners of listed buildings consisting in the discussion of project documentation in development according to § 14 para. 7 Act No. 20/1978 Coll., on State Monument Care. I quote further: The Act prefers the unacceptable non-transparency of the performance of conservation care, which significantly limits the possibility of public control - which I have also mentioned here - on the other hand, it envisages excessive bureaucratisation, which is burdened by all the entities concerned, especially the conservation institute as opposed to the necessary professional activities. A large number of periodic reports on landmarks processed by the Monument Institute for the Ministry of Culture are expected, without being clear at all who will analyse them and what their practical purpose will be. - I'm sure it reminds you of some episodes of my favorite British show, Mr. Secretary. I quote: At the same time, the number of proceedings conducted at the Ministry of Culture in the first instance is increasing disproportionately from the previous 8 proceedings to 19. Although the proposal envisages advisory bodies of the Ministry, the explanatory memorandum explicitly states that - I quote the Scientific Council on Monument Care will be designed not only as a highly professional platform, but its members must also be representatives of the most important owners of cultural monuments, such as the local government or the Roman Catholic Church. End of quote. Therefore, there can be serious doubts about the expertise of the outputs, inter alia, given that the advisory body cannot always count on the participation of all members. The suspected cumulation of application at the central administrative office compared to earlier regulations is indeed at least striking in civil society. Discriminatory is the regulation of so-called regulated activities, especially for processors of constructional historical surveys being placed completely senseless claims and threatened with draconian sanctions. On the other hand, the proposal does not take into account the extremely serious issue of looting archeological heritage by so-called detectors, the negative consequences of which have been known for many years and have caused strong regulation in most European countries. Not that I am a fan of regulation, but to protect cultural heritage, I think I can agree with the Minister on some issues and points. The Ministry of Culture purposefully argues a number of negotiations and amendments to the proposal, which did not fundamentally change its unconceptability, then mentions the various bodies supporting the proposal, with the National Monument Institute being its established organisation. Others are usually not directly related to the practical performance of conservation care. There was probably a commendation or mention that this is one of the subjects that supports it, an art history society. So much emphasis on the public debate on the proposal was taken by the Ministry of Culture in a selective way. Ministers chose who they wanted to deal with and who they didn't want to deal with, as a result it is argued only by agreed opinions. Does it seem normal to you that the only negative opinion we know is that these people have turned to us, the MPs? That the Minister here will commend the law, mention the organizations that agree with it, and not mention organizations that disagree with it? This isn't a fair hearing. That's why I'm gonna suggest we get the law back to work. And I ask you, Minister, that your words really be true in this regard and that we have not introduced here a method of not saying anything about who agrees with me, but of not saying anything negative. They also criticize a non-compliant explanatory report from the Association for ConstructionHistorical Survey, the general part of which is overloaded with statistical data, but mostly for shaping a new concept of conservation care indispensable. The proposal cannot be corrected by amendments, but it needs to be rejected as a whole and the basis for the further procedure is to take account of a genuinely open debate. Not the quasi-dialogue that the minister here tried to push us through, that he had gone through and that he hadn't. If you will allow me to do so, and time will allow us to do so, I would quickly review some of the provisions, some of the paragraphs that these experts are pointing to. For example, in § 1, the definition of a conservation reserve and zone is not compatible with the definition of a conservation fund and cultural monuments, with meaninglessly operating with a so-called typological expression which does not represent any value nor can it represent any value. Typology only defines criteria for examining a particular phenomenon. The specific part of the explanatory memorandum does not indicate anything about this term. Article 2 (2) (a) 6. The definition of archaeological finding states that archaeological finding does not serve its purpose and is preserved outside the environment of contemporary life, it can be further preserved in the mass of the building. The archaeological findings would thus be all secondaryly used archaeological articles and their fragments, which were used as building material after the demise of their original function, which is hardly practical. The proposal is inadmissiblely restrictive of the regulation of higher legal force, the Convention on the Protection of the Archaeological Heritage of Europe, it is number 99/2000 Coll., because it states in Article 1.3 that the archeological heritage includes buildings, structures, groups of buildings, built territories, movable buildings, monuments of another kind and their related environment. The proposal is limited to the concept of archaeological finding as well as the existing regulations, whereas the convention in question envisages, in line with modern trends in archaeology, a broader context of archaeological heritage. § 3b. It is quite misguided that the architectural heritage is not considered to be movable things, such as very valuable sets of architectural articles concentrated in lapidaria, and often do not have the status of collection items.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-007-074.u19	I am very sorry, Madame. I understand that there is much more to be said about this law, but at 12.30 the House has firmly placed another point, so I politely ask you to interrupt your speech and I will interrupt the discussion of this point, which we will continue on next time - perhaps. I thank the Member, the Minister and the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-007-074.u20	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, it was said in the debate that we would propose a proposal for a re-evaluation. Just so it doesn't fit in when you give me your word later.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-007-074.u21	I've noticed. Thank you. At 12:30 we fixed the point
