ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-005-155.u1	155. Government bill on health protection against harmful effects of addictive substances /house print 508/ - third reading But before I open the debate, the chairman of the club KSČM Pavel Kováčik. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-005-155.u2	Thank you for the floor. A five-minute break for the KSČM club meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-005-155.u3	Thank you. I'm declaring a break until 12.49 hours. [[The hearing is suspended from 12.45 am to 12.49 pm.]] Recess for the meeting of the club KSČM has passed. Let's keep going. The first enrollment is a colleague Václav Snopek. I do not see him, so his application falls to the end of the debate and Mr Martin Lank will take the floor. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur for taking their seats at the rapporteur's table. We'll be back in 13 hours. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-005-155.u4	I didn't even count on it anymore. Anyway, thank you for the floor, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will no longer delay by repeating all the arguments why I think this law constitutes an intervention in the freedom of business and individuals. A number of arguments have already been made. Perhaps I'll just remind you of the most fundamental ones in my view. The people in this country are mostly legal, but just as the innkeeper knows what customers he wants in his business, everyone has the opportunity to choose whether to go to smoking or non-smoking. You two groups want to take this option. You say people don't have the sense to decide for themselves what they're going to do with their lives, and that you yourself will decide what's best for them, whether they like it or not. If smoking establishments were so bad for people, they would have been gone by now, because nobody would have gone to them. After all, there are fewer and fewer of them. You often look for a smoking restaurant long and sometimes in vain. Well, leave it that way. The market can handle it. But please don't take people's freedom from their own sense. Yes, I'm not questioning smoking bans make sense in places where you have to go and where you don't have a choice, whether it's waiting rooms, courthouses, public institutions and so on and so on. But to insist that all establishments will be non-smoking, because what if in the future, in theory, you want to go there, it's just an outrage from my point of view. It bothers me, too, and it has also been said here that, in my opinion, you deliberately misled a large part of the public when this proposal is presented in such a way that you want to prevent people from smoking under the nose of the restaurant at lunchtime. I believe that if you were to say, frankly, that this is an absolute ban on smoking in restaurants, bars, beers, cafes, discotheques, and anywhere else that serves food or drinks, then maybe the public would see it a little differently. After all, according to a survey of most Čech, smoke in restaurants really bothers. That's right. But he doesn't agree with an absolute ban. That's the B that needs to be delivered to the survey. Overall, the authors of the survey show a long-term trend that the majority domestic population is not inclined to accept strict bans that do not give a choice. But what's to be surprised about? As you believe in your own citizens' judgment, your position on the referendum on the European Union's withdrawal has already been shown. And one last thing. Ladies and gentlemen, it's been said here, too. But a government bill with more than 250 amendments, including those submitted by government MPs themselves. So if anyone knows exactly what the resulting form of the law will actually look like, I admit it, hat down. I'm more worried it's gonna be a mess again, and then we're gonna be wondering what we voted for again. Therefore, with all due respect, I propose that this law be returned to second reading, where it would have obtained a slightly more digestible and clearer form, and I beg you to do so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-005-155.u5	Thank you, colleague Lanka. Mr Jiří Koubek will now prepare Mr Snopek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-005-155.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I will have a proposal for technical legislation, I have already told the rapporteur, but in order for the rapporteur to be able to vote on it, it is necessary for this to be heard on the microphone. This concerns the amendment contained in the resolution of the Guarantee Committee on Health. 141 of the 30th meeting held on 17 February under letter A, respectively. under A2: 4. In Article 36 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions shall apply: 1 (s) shall be inserted after the word "drinks" - and this is the key thing I will contradict - by the words "or wine-maker's premises where alcoholic beverages are sold." When I put this sentence in the relevant Section 36, i.e. Administrative offenses of legal and business individuals, paragraph 1: The seller commits an administrative offence by - and now I put this sentence there - so the sentence is completely illogical, for it would be: "The seller commits an administrative offence by being contrary to § 16 para. 1 shall not ensure that at the place of sale of alcoholic beverages there is no consumption of alcoholic beverages or the wine producer's premises where alcoholic beverages are sold by a person under 18 years of age.' That sentence doesn't make sense. Apparently, the author of this amendment had the intention to insert this amendment, not after the word "drinks', but after the word "drinks', and then the sentence would read: "The seller will commit an administrative offence by acting contrary to Paragraph 16 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 1 shall not ensure that, at the place of sale of alcoholic beverages or at the premises of the wine producer where alcoholic beverages are sold, a person under 18 years of age does not consume alcoholic beverages.' Then the sentence, regardless of whether I vote for it or not, would at least give some elemental logic. To consider the rapporteur, it is also whether he does not want to make another legislative technical amendment in this amendment and supplement the preposition "v', as from the word "Vojtěch, to be there "or at the wine producer's premises where alcoholic beverages are sold'. Thank you for your attention. It is only like him that the resulting proposal will of course be pasquil, but so in at least one sentence the pasquil can look so that it can also be read as Czech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-005-155.u7	I thank Mr Koubek. And now the words will be taken by the last one in the debate, Mr Václav Snopek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-005-155.u8	Mr President, fellow Members, Minister, allow me, as the proposer of the most comprehensive amendment, to comment on this law that we are currently debating. Its name is about protecting health from the harmful effects of addictive substances. The name itself is somewhat confusing, as is the whole bill. To begin with, let us ask ourselves how we divide addictive substances. The first division tells us it's legal and illegal. The division in the sphere of legality takes place on the line whether it is or is not prohibited from selling them. Legal addictive substances include alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, as well as certain medicines. Yes, even medicines can develop addiction and addiction to the user. And here's the first problem. There is not a word in this law about protecting health from the harmful effects of addictive substances, i.e. drugs. Illegal addictive substances can be divided into soft and hard drugs. For example, marijuana is included in the category of soft drugs. Hard drugs include heroin, meth, cocaine, hashish, or ecstasy. If we were to line up addictive substances by addictiveness and danger to society, this line would look something like this: the most dangerous is definitely heroin, that's what all experts agree on. The fastest thing to do is to get addicted to it. Heroin is also considered the fastest way to addiction or to the cemetery. Right behind him is meth and other injectable drugs. Furthermore, on the hazard scale, we could find substances that snort, such as cocaine, or smell - chicula, etc. There are various dance and recreational drugs, such as ecstasy, on the tip of illegal drugs. [[13.00 hours]] Experts have been debating for many years whether smoking is more socially dangerous or excessive alcohol consumption. We might as well discuss it until the end of the term of office. However, the fact is that both these legal drugs are far less dangerous than their illegal counterparts. I'm sure we can agree on that across the political spectrum. And here I am with the greatest paradox of this bill. You won't find a word about heroin, meth and other dangerous drugs in this law. Three quarters of the law is about alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. This clearly shows us a certain misguided approach that the Ministry of Health has chosen to prepare this law. This law is therefore not about protecting health from the harmful effects of the most dangerous substances, but only about protecting health from the harmful effects of the two least dangerous substances, which makes it clear that the name of the law itself is somewhat confusing. And so I could say the whole law looks like it. You will not find a paragraph that does not contain a serious legal error or an incorrect legal design. And the result is this bill that we are discussing. It is a classic example of how a legislative process is not to take place. I dare say that this bill is one of the least successful which the House is discussing. The bill is the opposite of a social agreement. The result is often a picture of the method of material. This law did not arise on the basis of an honest debate - the author of the proposal with future users. It was written by three clerks, one deputy minister and a drug coordinator. Future users of the law have been completely ignored. Although there was a kind of formal commentary procedure, all comments from the professional public from the hospitality, retail, transport and local authorities were rejected by a word not accepted. The settlement of comments was completely formal. It's not supposed to be the law. The result is that in almost every paragraph there is some legal error or incorrect or even unconstitutional design. Unlike the petitioner, I took a job and met with representatives of those to whom the law should apply and their activities should be regulated, i.e. representatives of innkeepers, hoteliers, retail operators, organizers of sports events and also representatives of local authorities. Unlike the authors of this bill, I go to regular people's pubs and ask what they think of this bill. The result of these consultations with both the professional and lay public is my comprehensive amendment, which I tabled at second reading. It has 33 pages and contains 83 amendments or if you want voting points. This is not an obstruction, as I have often heard, but an attempt to honestly correct all the mistakes that have been made by the authors and which have not been talked out in the context of the external commentary procedure. And now for the various amendments. I find it absolutely scandalous the way the authors of the law have proceeded to regulate the use of addictive substances in the form of local decrees. The chosen method completely denies the principle of taking action against the most dangerous phenomena. The most dangerous thing in this case is intravenous injection, injection of hard drugs such as heroin or meth. In their case, however, the authors of the bill did not give municipalities the power to ban their users from certain parts of the municipalities, such as schools, kindergartens and social spaces, but they also propose that municipalities be given the power to prohibit smoking by generally binding decrees in the municipality, even on private property or within private buildings. So I suggest we do the opposite, just as in the external commentary procedure the Union of Cities and Municipalities suggested. How did such a senseless arrangement even come to be presented to us? This is the result of the way in which this bill is drawn up. The bill was prepared by the cabinet without the participation of the professional public, only between several ministry officials and the drug coordinator. Does that seem weird to you? Me, too. However, we must also recall the fact that the drug coordinator is the one who divides several billion into so-called drug prevention. Recipients are non-governmental non-profit organisations and the government drug coordinator is their spokesperson in the government. These recipients of public money don't want a reprisal against hard drugs, that's the source of their livelihood. So they like to send thunder and lightning to legal addictive substances, i.e. alcohol and tobacco, even though the excise tax on alcohol and tobacco is financed from the state budget by these non-profit organizations. But they feel like it's dead.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-005-155.u9	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment. Let me ask you how long your performance is because I have the ambition for everyone to know to end the debate. We're not voting on anything. I would like to end the debate. You are the last to be logged in, and in that case, after your speech, I would interrupt the House of Deputies' meeting with the fact that we should have a vote before us when we continue this point on Friday. Of course, my colleague Lank's proposal to return or repeat the second reading that fell there. I'm just asking how long you have it for so we can inform our colleagues.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-005-155.u10	Thank you for asking. About 20 to 25 minutes. I suggest you interrupt my performance, that I finish it on Friday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-005-155.u11	In that case, I cannot have ambition because, of course, I cannot prevent possible factual comments or reactions to your performances. So I'm sorry, but in that case, I'm gonna put out a lunch break, although we can discuss the third reading within 14 hours, but I didn't expect your performance to be that long. Thank you. I'm interrupting the meeting until 2:30. We will continue with the solid points of the Minister of Justice, i.e. points 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 233, i.e. returned to the Senate, and then would be point No. 17, which is the second reading of nature and landscape conservation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-005-155.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 14.30, we will continue with the afternoon meeting of the Chamber of Deputies with the points firmly placed. The first point is
