ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u1	The combined debate on paragraphs 1 and 2 / House prints 513 and 514/ So we will now consider the Government's bill on the record of sales, the House's press 513, the third reading, and the government's bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the sales record law, the House's press 514, the third reading. We once again addressed these Houses of Press on 22 January, when we interrupted the merged debate. I ask that the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš and the rapporteur of the guarantee committee take the seats at the rapporteur's table, namely the Committee on Budgets, Mr Jaroslav Klaška, who is also the rapporteur of the next Committee on Economic Affairs. I would remind you that the Chamber of Deputies, by its resolution No. According to Section 59 (2) of the EEA Agreement, the Commission considers that the measure is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 and 2 of our Rules of Procedure, firstly, with a limitation of the speaking time for 10 minutes and secondly, with a maximum of twice as much as possible by the Member. So we will now continue with the suspended merged debate. Mr Faltýnek is reporting with the procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u2	Good morning, esteemed colleagues. Madam President, allow me, on behalf of the ANO Group, to propose, in accordance with Section 95a of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, that the House decide to set aside today, on Friday 29 January, for the third reading of the bills from 14:00 to 19:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u3	I thank you and please give Mr Stanjura's priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u4	Good morning. Before I say what I want, Madam Vice-President, if you'd like that banner removed. [[At the beginning of the meeting, Minister Babiš leaned on the President's table with an EET sign.]] We're not at a political party meeting, so I'd like the banner to disappear. Otherwise, everyone will do it and will not even see who is reporting for the debate. Yesterday, we agreed to set aside other lessons for third reading, and we clearly proved helpful. I think that it simply cannot be every day, so on behalf of two clubs, ODS and TOP 09, I raise the veto against the procedural proposal of the President of the ANO member of Mr Faltýnek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u5	Thank you. I'll ask Minister Babiš to remove the banner. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Now with priority rights Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u6	Good morning. Thank you for the floor, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u7	Minister, I will interrupt you and ask the House, my fellow Members and colleagues to take their seats, and if they are debating to do so in the foyer, to lower the level of noise here in the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u8	So good morning again. We are meeting here for the ninth time to discuss electronic records of sales. A week has passed since the last debate, and we have not lingered and prepared this speech on the basis of the tapestry of this discussion. Previously, many Members and Members took turns with this counter, whether with a contribution to the debate or with a factual remark. Some have been here repeatedly, only President Kalousek has been here about five times. So my colleagues and I thought that there would be many new incentives for discussion, that there would be many comments and questions that I could respond to here. But what was our surprise after studying the tape screen - the performances were many and political phrases too, but the arguments I could respond to were like saffron in those five hours. And I mean, it's a shame. Such a lack of interest, such an unobtrusive discussion, this bill proposal, this absolutely fundamental project, which will straighten the business environment in the Czech Republic, does not really deserve. I want to appeal again to this House. Please argue, maybe argue sharply, but in a matter of fact. Argue numbers and facts. If you wish, try to refute the arguments that I have put forward here, but once again the facts, the sources, the real information, not your conjecture and ideological proclamations. And if that's not possible, let's finally vote on this law. I here want to re-appreciate colleagues from the opposition who have brought material questions and comments into this discussion. Mr Gazdík, Mr Stanjura, Mr Koníček - when he did not address my wages - Mrs Kovářová and some others, I would not want to harm anyone. Yes, this law needs to be discussed, it needs to be argued. But I repeat again, the phrase "it won't work, nothing will be chosen" and the terms like "sneaking tunnel" are probably not arguments. [[9.10 hours]] So let's go to specific comments. Mr Koníček here accused Mr Hejna and Mrs Hornochová of lying, who informed at the meeting of the Supervisory Committee about the contract between the General Financial Directorate and the State Treasury of the Shared Services Centre. It was discussed whether or not this contract was under cover. I would just like to point out to Mr Koníček, through Madam President, that this Treaty has four annexes, and it is Annex 2 to this Treaty that contains five classified information in the "reserved" and "confidential" regimes. I would just like to ask Mr Koníček, through Madam President, what would he do if the contract had been submitted to him without annexes, if he would not mind. I am sure he would mind, because the annexes are an integral part of Article 17.10 of this Treaty. And again, Annex 2 contains classified information. For the sake of completeness, I merely add that it is not a contract for operation, but a contract for delivery and implementation of the application of electronic sales log, which was concluded on 17 April 2015 between the above-mentioned Contracting Parties. Deputy Minister Hejna stated that if they were to transmit information at some level of secrecy at a public meeting of the Supervisory Committee, they might be at risk of leaking classified information. With regard to the above-mentioned contract with the Treasury, although it has a set date of performance, all the work is suspended and we assume that this contractual relationship will be revised shortly. As regards the price determination following the marketing study referred to by Mr Koníček, the government material actually contained a statement that the price estimate was based on the projected system architecture of prices obtained on the basis of the marketing survey and the company know-how, i.e. marketing survey, not marketing study. We can argue whether it's a happily chosen formulation. The inspection committee was probably accidentally sent to STEM's marketing study because Mr Koníček's written request sent before the committee meeting was misunderstood by my officials. Mr Koníček asked for evidence of a marketing survey carried out under the project, and this separately formulated point was understood as a STEM marketing survey. To the IT solution itself, I must reiterate that all work on building a technical solution is suspended. The reason why we have reached this solution, which is not usual in the practice of the state administration, was the escalating attacks and the significant politicisation and centralisation of the material and technical plane of the entire project, which has reached the level of intimidation of civil servants. The police are investigating us because we spent a few crowns on a project that brings 18 billion each year. We do not want this key project to be threatened by a purpose-based attack of alleged illegal action. We have therefore proposed by the Coalition Amendment an extension of the legitimisation period to seven calendar months. During this period, a technical solution will be built and tested, i.e. the central IT system of electronic sales records. As part of the technical implementation of electronic sales records, open tenders are envisaged, for example in the field of infrastructure purchase, with the Ministry of Finance's Ministry of Finance using, among other things, framework contracts that are already concluded for the general need for the acquisition of hardware equipment, not just for the EET project. There will also be a tender procedure in relation to the tax portal ADIS, which the Ministry of Finance has inherited and for which due to contractual relations set up in the past it does not have relevant copyright rights. The technical implementation also includes classified information in accordance with the Secret Information Act, for which we also have the opinion of the National Security Authority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u9	Yes, Minister. Please don't go on, we'll wait for the noisy to melt to the left, stop discussing, because the noise level was really high.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u10	The confidentiality of the procurement documents took place in accordance with the law in respect of the classified information referred to above, not because classified data were processed in the EET information system. The EET information system is not intended for the processing of classified information and therefore is not subject to certification under Section 46 of the Secret Information Protection Act. Anyway, in order to set everything straight and in sufficient detail, the Managing Director of the Financial Administration, Mr Janeček, who is responsible for implementing the EET project, will immediately contact Mr Koníček, or the Supervisory Committee, to actively clarify and answer all questions raised by the members of this committee. As far as the BDO study is concerned, I would begin with its creation. The BDO study was created as a small-scale public contract with a price of CZK 199 900 without VAT. In the award of the contract for this study, not only all legal regulations but internal regulations of the Ministry of Finance were complied with. In determining the price, the Ministry of Finance based its information on the market and addressed BDO IT as a potential supplier of project support on the ground that BDO IT participated in a tender for a similar contract offering the lowest bid price. For the sake of completeness, I add that the highest bid price was around CZK 2 million. So 2 million against 199 900. It cannot be concluded that the Ministry of Finance has contributed significantly to the financing of the EET feasibility study. And what was the purpose of this study, presented here by the opposition as the Holy Grail and the cornerstone of the project? This can be read on pages 14 and 15 of this study, where the restrictions given in its preparation are given. I will not quote this here, I just want to stress that from the perspective of the Ministry of Finance it is only one of the inputs for the technical team of the e-booking sales project. The data in the BDO study are only a rough proposal for a comprehensive EET project and its aim was to demonstrate its feasibility and estimate the budget, not to propose a system or financial costs in detail. If someone is attacking spelling errors or the difference in number of pages, it is an absolute marginality from my point of view, because this difference occurred as a result of the transfer from WORD to PDF and the shift of the graph, i.e. the picture on page 144 and 145 by half of the page. There were so many shows about it last time. So we've moved half a page, and we're terribly sorry about that. I understand that the opposition is sticking to this very important circumstance, of course I mean it ironically, because they are already on the verge of an argumentation gap and the old famous saying "spinning straws catch up" applies. Mr Kalousek grabbed on several times last time, and I assume he will continue to do so. The error in the totals of one of the project cost options in the study also does not play a fundamental role. I don't know if you guys were doing a new project. It is normally part of every project of project management. And even in the case of EET, there is a technical team that provides the technical side of the EET. The outputs of this team were reflected in the explanatory statement to the law. So yes, the input costs of the EET system are characterised in the explanatory memorandum and are calculated at CZK 370 million and operating costs at CZK 170 million. The costs shall be based on the estimated amounts at the time of the establishment of the EET Framework Budget and shall be specified. And, as the explanatory memorandum rightly states, these are the maximum possible costs, and we are expected to compete at a lower price in procurement procedures. I would like to point out that from the outset I was in favour of the full publication of the BDO study. Unfortunately, it was only my wish. The Ministry of Finance, acting as the Authority, has to act exclusively under the legislation and, as part of the examination of the request for publication, the officials concluded that the publication of part of the study precludes trade secrets identified by BDO. In this respect, the Ministry of Finance could not have acted differently; in the event of publication, it would have been subject to a possible judicial penalty. Finally, the publication of the study was due to the fact that the study was already available within the Internet network, so it could no longer use the protection of business secrets and it was more than desirable to publish it on the Ministry of Finance's website to preserve the authenticity of the study. [[9.20 hours]] I also want to respond to repeated questions on relevant sources of information on electronic sales records. The relevant and complex material requested by the opposition is the explanatory memorandum, including the RIA report. All Members can look further at the Financial Administration website, attend expert conferences and debates organised not only by the Ministry of Finance, but also by the Chambers of Commerce and Associations such as the Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Tax Advisors, Association of Trade and Tourism, Association of Small Enterprises and Traders, Association of Hotels, Restaurants and others. I also spoke here last time with an offer for an individual meeting only for Members at the Ministry of Finance and this offer still stands. Mr Kučera here last week tried to bring down the quality of the House's press, or the explanatory reports and reports of the RIA. It was said that the explanatory memorandum was merely a marketing product and that our RIA report was wrong. So how is it possible that the Office of the Government's expert apparatus, on the contrary, commends the Ministry of Finance and gives the RIA report for a model within its methodology? Yes, you can check this on the Office of the Government's website, and this is evidence of a well-done work done by the Ministry of Finance's staff. I will now respond to Mr Plíšek's comments. As regards the substantive intention of the law, the substantive intention serves the government before drawing up a draft law to decide whether to regulate the issue by law or by which limits the law will contain. Since this decision has already been made by the coalition agreement or by the Government's programming declaration, it is an obligation to introduce effective control of sales through an online sales log system, there was no need to draw up a substantive intention. So the Treasury didn't give up on material intent. The Ministry of Finance has acted in accordance with the legislative rules of the Government, which states that a substantive plan is being drawn up when it is contained in the Government's legislative work plan. In addition, in January 2015, material of a non-legal nature was submitted to the Government with an analysis of the options for access to the issue of electronic sales records. The Department of Compatibility of the Office of the Government in the settlement of comments stated that the Ministry fulfilled the requirements relating to the reporting of compatibility with European Union law, as they result, in particular, from the legislative rules of the Government. No comments were received from the compatibility department in relation to SMEs. With regard to the constitutionality of the establishment of exemptions from the registration obligation in the form of a government regulation, we are talking about Article 4 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, obligations can be imposed only on the basis of law and within its limits and only on the maintenance of fundamental rights and freedoms. It is important here to say that no obligations will be imposed by the regulation. Thus, the diction of that provision will be fulfilled. The Institute of Government Regulation will serve to relieve the subjects of their duties where appropriate. Nowhere is it said that this institute will be used. It is only possible to flexibly respond to the reduction of potential hardness in specific business models that we cannot predict now. Furthermore, we have been accused that the explanatory memorandum does not contain information on the potential security risks of the project. I would like to emphasise here that the explanatory memorandum has a firm structure under the Government's legislative rules. The account of what the explanatory memorandum has to contain is taxative and all parts are properly incorporated. In this context - for Mr Holeček - there has been a change in the impact assessment of the proposed solution in relation to privacy and personal data even after the review procedure. The reasoned report presented to the Chamber of Deputies does not therefore contain a sentence: The proposed legislation does not affect the standard of privacy and personal data. On the contrary, it informs widely that the bill does not establish a new processing of personal data, that by the authorities Financial administrations are not de facto required to provide any data that the Financial Administration does not have access to now, that only the method of data collection is changing, the data will not be provided ex post by the taxpayer as in the case of a tax return, but online in real time, and so on. With regard to the Office's comments on personal data protection, I will add that a large part of these comments were based on a lack of understanding of the electronic record of sales system or was of a procedural nature. Of course, factually substantiated comments were taken into account and incorporated into the draft law. Of course, it is not true what Mr Vilímec said that the law does not allow an appeal against the decision to close the establishment. The procedure in question is followed by a tax order which generally accepts the appeal. Since the Sales Registration Act does not contain a special adjustment, an appeal is possible. Although I would like to approach this debate only positively, in conclusion, I would like to mention the gross lie presented here last time by Mr Kučera, who said that the Slovak Finance Minister has resigned due to electronic records of sales and chaos among businessmen. First of all, Dr. Dušan Mramor is the Minister of Finance of Slovenia. Secondly, the electronic record-keeping system works perfectly smoothly in Slovenia and without any problems, and entrepreneurs accepted it very quickly as their own. For the record, the average time of check-in in the central IT system is less than one quarter of a second according to Slovenian party data. So it is another country where this modern system of sales records is introduced and where the business environment in cash payments is settled. So I don't know what the Czech Republic is so specific about that we can't. In conclusion, I would just repeat my request. Be so kind, argue factually and truthfully, or let's take a vote. For not in obstructions, but in voting, democracy is born. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u11	I thank the Minister, and now with Mr Kalousek in fact. Before I give him my word, I warn my colleagues that from now on, I will name those who are constantly disturbing. Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u12	Thank you, Madam President. In the sense of the Rules of Procedure, I respond to my previous speaker, namely the poster that Minister Babiš had to take down at your command, because this too is the speech of a Member, albeit non-verbal. I want to respond to the statement that the VAT reduction for ten-degree beer will be proposed to 10 per cent. All European Union ministers have a habit of trying to systemically compare VAT rates so as to make it as simple as possible to charge, to create as little room for tax evasion as possible. Populists are questioning individual items, which are of no economic importance, but they complicate accounting and open the door to tax evasion. Indeed, systemic change should respond to the abolition of the tax reform that we have started. You will recall that, given that we wanted to ensure retirement for future generations, we started pension reform and we wanted to finance it with partial VAT increases. Your government, your coalition has decided to abolish pension reform, calling VAT financing a mistake. It is therefore logical that VAT rates should be adjusted systematically to the situation that existed here before the pension reform started. Members of the TOP 09 will submit this proposal because, unlike populist ten-degree beer, it is logical and systematic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u13	Thank you. And now I beg you, Mr Fiedler, in fact. Minister Babiš and Mr Kučera will be ready after him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, I registered an amount of 18 billion in Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš's speech. Crowns. So much is chosen thanks to EET more. If it's a real amount, if it's based on any assumptions, calculations, wishes, I'll pass. Let's say it's 18 billion. Crowns per year... I'd wait, if the Vice Prime Minister was upset that they were having a good time during his speech, I'd wait, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u15	Yes. I will ask the Volný Member not to disturb you in your speech. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u16	Because I'm talking to the Minister. And the amount of 18 billion. it should therefore be selected in addition. I would like to remind you that our Dawn MEP this week has suggested that we look at how 42 billion are to be paid. koruna a year again. And there are serious doubts as to whether we have to pay that amount. I'll pass on my opinion of the EET, among other things, it's still the same. I agree that taxes should be paid. Nothing changed in my opinion. [[9.30 hours]] But I keep saying what I said here a year ago, I think, that we're chasing fleas in a bear coat and that bear, like solar, sitting, laughing and putting billions in her pockets. Why aren't we dealing with this as a priority? Why are we spending so much time here that Mr. Vice Prime Minister said last time? 38 hours, maybe 48 hours today. Here, maybe a short time would be enough to save a very fast billion, four billion a month each month. And as far as this non-systemic step is concerned with the benefit of a particular product, beer, I will then wait for the Minister's reply, because I know that he has entered into a factual discussion that he wants to respond to it. I had the same comment as my colleague Kalousek, but I would very much like to hear the Minister's reply first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u17	Thank you and please to the Minister's microphone with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u18	We put forward a proposal to reduce VAT on barrel beer because there are pubs that only have beer and soft drinks. And as part of the bill that is presented here, we propose to reduce VAT on food and soft drinks from 21 to 15 percent. And, of course, we have a long-term goal of returning VAT to only two rates. And it's really smiling when Mr Kalousek is performing here, so I'd just remind him that he was the one who increased the VAT rate from 5 to 15 percent with the ODS. So we want it back. That's all. When we joined the European Union, we had VAT 5 and 19. Today we have 15 and 21. Our coalition government came up with a tax reduction on drugs, books, child food. We will also ask the European Commission for a reduction in diapers, as required by the KDU-ČSL, although this is probably against the directive. So the long-term goal is to cut taxes. Right was raising taxes. We're cutting them down. We lost 22 billion last year, but we raised 72 billion more. So I think the target is clear. Lower taxes and have a maximum of two rates. Yes, that's a long-term goal. The same goal as reducing the deficit, not increasing debt. And that's what we're doing. So I understand that the opposition is upset, but I think the coalition government is working on it and it's a success and we're only at the beginning of the journey. So we're cutting taxes. Yes, we want to go back to 10 percent of everything, at the reduced rate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u19	Thank you for keeping the time limit, and please note that Mr Kučera's microphone is also in effect. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u20	Hello. Thanks for the word. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I find it very difficult to respond to these lies and demagogy from the mouth of the Minister of Finance, Andrej Babiš. It's already become a certain folklore that these demagogical statements are quite common here. So I will only respond to the performance where he mentioned my name and my talk about Slovenia. I quickly pulled some information here to, of course, introduce the demagogic lie of Andrej Babiš to some boundaries. The introduction of online cash registers brought bad luck to Slovenian finance minister Dušan Mramor. As of 2 January 2016, while all entrepreneurs should charge at the cashiers, tax officials must tolerate the fact that three quarters of traders have not yet managed to get the necessary equipment. Two weeks and two days after the cash register was introduced, Mramor had to resign. That's the Slovenian success of Babiš Andrej. The fact that EET falls on the smallest ones is confirmed in Slovenia, for example hairdressers, means the smallest ones that are particularly concerned here. I don't know if Minister Andrej Babiš is gonna let that ten bar down, the barrel beer. Maybe it'll be good for the hairdressers, too. So the Slovenian hairdresser association reports that the number of hairdressers in 2014 - 2,700, today 1,300. This is the result of the Balkan experiment that Andrej Babiš is introducing here. Those are specific numbers. And this is the demagogy and the lie that Andrej Babiš here is constantly showing us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u21	Thank you and now with the de facto Minister Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u22	Thanks for the word. I thought Mr Laudát was Mr Kalousek's best pupil in TOP 09. But I think Mr. Kučera has already made it to the very top of imitation in lies. Then, Mr President, I will take pictures of this Dušan Mramor at the next meeting of the finance ministers. Dušan Mramor is still Minister of Finance of Slovenia. I talked to him last time, and I'll bring you a picture. So it's hard to argue here when you're lying permanently.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u23	Thank you. Those were factual remarks for the moment. And now, please, to Mr. Pavera's microphone with a proper application. [[Noise in the hall. Mr. Vácha reporting on his way to the microphone.]] Mr Vácha - do you have any procedural rules? Objection? Please. If it's procedural, you can.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u24	Good morning. Madam President, last time we ended up not spending my whole ten minutes, I asked Mr President to interrupt the meeting. He asked me - I brought the entry here. [[He's showing the log.]] He asked me if I'd spent my whole ten minutes taking it that way. I turned against it because I didn't spend my whole ten minutes. That's why I think I should be able to finish my speech. So I object and ask the House to allow me to finish my speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u25	Then I'll do it another way. I will ask the House whether it has a problem with this, that we would allow Mr Vách to speak to complete his speech. [[Screams in the hall.]] There's a request for a vote. Okay. I will put this proposal to a vote. I'll call my colleagues from the lobby. I'll sign you off and ask you to re-enlist with your cards. [[Noise in the hall.]] I will now begin the vote on Mr Vácha's proposal, his request, so that he can make his speech at the end of the last meeting because he has been interrupted. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 22, to which 135 are registered, for 127, against 3. The proposal was adopted and please Mr Vácha to the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u26	I would like to thank my esteemed colleagues for their generosity, but now I don't know how many minutes, to be honest. So I'd start somewhere where I left off.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u27	Ambassador, I take it you have ten minutes because the House has allowed you to leave. So you have your ten minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u28	Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u29	Please continue and I will ask the House for peace. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u30	Thank you. Well, then you're being generous yourself. So thank you again. So I would go back to the parts where the minister interrupted me, so I couldn't make a clear argument. I was talking about what's most important to us is arguments. At first, we only heard the Minister's arguments. He now returned to some statements, some speeches from the past, and went through various arguments. I think my colleagues, since it was the first performance, will come back to that, so I'm not going back to that. However, once again I would like to thank Mr Koníček for his, I must say the perfect performance and the perfect preparation. [[9.40 hours]] However, I will return to the arguments. We heard one argument against, we heard some 20 to 30 arguments for. I would repeat, i.e. one argument for and some 20, 30 arguments against. I'd start with the arguments against it. The Minister has left, however, all of you who will vote on this, you should have the arguments before you press the button, make it clear and repeat. The point here is that no extra taxes will be collected. Yes, of course, none of us can say if more taxes are collected or not. Even the Minister can't say. It is true that the opposition cannot say this with certainty. However, it is true that you should deal with the opposition's arguments in some way. The minister says he's going to pick 18 billion. More. The evolution of the amount that was collected was, if I remember correctly and if I have the correct information from the media, it started somewhere at six million, then it was about seven, eight, then we got to ten, fifteen, eighteen. That means, at the moment, I think that most of you who trust the Minister without limit probably don't know or have all the right arguments that the Minister has calculated the amount to be recovered from those taxes. It would be interesting if the Minister, if he were willing to make 18 billion for that amount. bet when she's so vehemently promoting her here. And it would be interesting what that bet should be. He's been betting with his colleague Kalousek here before. What would that win be like? Maybe if the coalition couldn't pick up those 18 billion, maybe the minister could grab on to, now I don't know what it's grabbing on to, and say, well, I'll make sure it's the difference between 18 billion. Finally, Agrofert will step up and start paying taxes or not to raise so much money from state subsidies. So that's the question of whether or not we collect more taxes. Of course, no one can say whether we choose or choose. Then there was the possibility of abuse and the possibility of cyber security. Abuse can be both in the process of collecting sensitive data from most entrepreneurs. But then there's the plane of cyber security, which, for example, the Minister has come back to today in his speech, I have a feeling, hasn't returned in much detail. That is, that is a question which would probably be good to consider before the vote. Because, of course, none of us believe that there are really such bad guys in the Ministry, or in the body that's going to save the data, except maybe, I don't know, the company is sociologically divided, so even the bad guys get there, but they're not such bad guys that they abuse the data. But cyber security, of course, is the threat that a hacker can hack into that data and exploit it. And maybe not use them for his business, because he'd have to really invest a lot of money and energy into it, but he could use it to do business with it somewhere. So that's the cyber security thing. What is important and what the Minister has not spoken about. He brought us a poster of beer, VAT at 10 per cent, but he didn't comment on how the government and the current coalition would stand up to the next process of collecting taxes from taxpayers. We learned here from fellow Farský, and he said it very nicely, read his post, and I reminded it last time that it would really only concern those who are most defenseless, that is, small businessmen and entrepreneurs. And he told you that there are big companies that are strong enough that the state is unable to collect taxes from them. I think you should, I know it's hard, it may be dangerous for the coalition, because those companies, one of them, for example, I'm not saying that I don't want to say that they don't pay taxes, but one of those companies is run by your chairman, too, so he knows how this system works. These are strong enough to make me feel afraid of them, and that's why you stepped on those who are the most defenseless, who really can't defend themselves, and then maybe they grab straws in the form of our defense contributions. That'd be good if you'd put your mind to it. My colleague Kalousek said: Return the system to the 20% VAT, because the 21 was due to pension reform. I ask and say: Return it to 20 percent and tell us how you will collect taxes on those you are obviously afraid of. Next, we have a problem with raising unemployment. When you come up with a report on how the EET helped collect taxes, perhaps there should be some analysis of how unemployment has increased among the entities to which the EET has reached. That's another argument you don't take into account or defend. But really, the moment you come and you start, I know it's gonna be approved, I know it's gonna be approved sometime soon, but I'm sure it's gonna be approved, so the moment it's approved and you're coming up next year with the banner "We've picked 18 billion!"Bring a banner, too. "Yes, that is unemployment among small businessmen. Among the subjects that EET has reached." Another argument was the administrative complexity of this project. I'm afraid I've spent my entire ten minutes. Maybe I'll try to sign up again if I get the floor. However, within the last half-minute, I would like to say one thing. Minister Babiš here says people don't want to pay taxes. Well, no wonder they don't want to pay taxes when, for example, in this budget, you plan to make civil servants 20 billion. more than in the last budget. That means those people don't want to pay taxes because you're wasting their money. Thank you and I look forward to the next ten minutes and the next post.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u31	Thank you. Now, I have three factual points here, but before we approach them, let me load my apologies. Mrs Pěnčíková from 11 a.m. to the end of the day for private reasons. Mr Grospič from 10 p.m. to attend the funeral and for personal reasons. Mrs Bebarová Rujbrová from 11 a.m. to the end of the day for personal reasons. Member Nykl from 11 o'clock until the end of the meeting for personal reasons and Mrs Langšádlová for personal reasons the whole day of today's hearing. With the replacement card number 11, Mrs Kailová is voting today. And now I beg you, Mr Fiedler, in fact. After that, Mr Komárek and then Mr Kučera will be prepared. All factual points. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u32	Thank you for the floor. My colleague Vácha was consistent and he took all ten minutes, but it's a good thing, because he was basically talking about a similar one that I was talking about, that we're still gonna chase the little things here, those little companies. The businessmen, I know there are those among them who don't do it to survive, some do it to hide the taxes and the finances. But we're gonna chase the little ones, and we're gonna let the big ones go, and we're not gonna notice them because we're scared of them. That's exactly what my colleague Vácha was talking about, he said nothing more than I said before. I was waiting for Mr. Vice Prime Minister's performance on how the beer was. Now I've learned, I thought it concerns all beer, so only ten-degree beer, then I see a very problematic straightening of the market that we're talking about, because I think it's barrely, yes, because there's a very popular beverage in those pubs and restaurants in the Czech Republic, which kind of beats a certain American guy, his Czech manufacturer here is, he developed that syrup back in Opava Galena, I guess, I don't want to advertise here, you all know what's going on, they're giving it to us on the train. I'm just waiting to hear from the producer of this drink that he would also like a 10% tax on his brewed drinks, because they often drink in pubs when it's supposed to be beers. That's the system thing. Yes, and we'll have more VAT on beer than water? How are you gonna explain that to those moms if the water's even more expensive than the beer? I am not saying that we should help those businessmen, those restaurant operators and pubs, but certainly in another way, by simplifying the agenda, by simplifying the system in which they are moving, and not by this completely unsystemic step. I'm really saying, I'm just waiting for the producer to get back to you and say, "I want 10 percent of VAT on the pinned coffin."
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u33	Thank you, and now please, with Mr Komárek in fact, Mr Kučera will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u34	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I looked at the debate a little differently. I've analyzed the debate with my analytical department. [[An explosion of laughter in the hall.]] I'll tell you what analytical department it's an analytical department from Zubr and Carnations. I gave them enough money. From this point of view, my colleague Vácha just didn't say anything new. I've written down 30 arguments that fell here. It can be proved that this is only 30 arguments that are constantly repeated. I am able to read the essence in two or three factual points and ask colleagues not to just repeat them to come up with something new. Well, I'll start the reading, I won't fit into one actual thing, then I'll get out again. So, the arguments. Limitations on the freedom of entrepreneurs - said at least twice. The administrative burden was at least three times. More burden for entrepreneurs, both financial and life - fell at least five times. Control over each businessman and entrepreneur - fell at least four times. An active is considered a thief in advance. The data collection tool that anyone can exploit has fallen eleven times, my friends. The law is useless - it fell three times. The online EET has only the Balkans, Europe does not - it has fallen at least twice. It doesn't work in Croatia - it fell at least three times. The necessary analysis is missing - it fell at least twice. EET will increase unemployment - now Mr Vácha has repeated it again, so at least five times. The tradesmen are against the employees of the poor, because they have to take care of everything themselves. [[The President draws attention to the time]] So in the second point of fact, let me make another few arguments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u35	Thank you and please to Mr Kučera's microphone, Mr Vácha will also be prepared with a factual remark. I will ask the House to keep it down a bit. Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u36	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Komárek for summing up the arguments so beautifully. I think 30 arguments against, I think, quite a lot. Sometimes one is enough, today we have 30, so that's certainly why we vote against the introduction of electronic sales records. I think that Mr Martin Komárek will eventually do so, because the arguments, the 30 arguments he says, are absolutely fundamental. However, I have performed here as a reaction to Slovenia. Now I have to give a little credit to Minister Andrej Babiš. I said that Finance Minister Mramor resigned from Slovenia, which is true, and it is true that the Slovenian Government, or the Slovenian Prime Minister, did not accept the resignation, so at the time when I prepared the performance, the resignation was submitted, in the meantime, of course, it was not accepted from the government or from the Prime Minister. However, the fact that in some way the Minister of Finance felt uncomfortable in that capacity already results from the resignation. This means so much on my part clarification and so much on my part also a certain apology towards Andrej Babiš. So indeed Mr. Finance Minister Slovenia Mramor is in office, but the truth is that he resigned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u37	Thank you. Mr Syblík cancels his apology from today's meeting. Now, please, to Mr Vácha's microphone, Mrs Adamová will be prepared, factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u38	Thank you. I, by your means, would like to see Mr Komárek. I'm glad you guys are finally starting to deal with this. I'm glad you finally made a list of the arguments. And I'd like to ask you if you wouldn't, now that you've got the list, the arguments, every one of them, the analytical department, take it apart and bring you the arguments for and against the argument. That's what I think is important, which I think should be heard here. So don't come to us with the number of arguments, we know them, we know about the arguments. Give them to your colleagues, tell your colleagues and discuss them with you at the club in detail whether the argument is valid or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u39	Yes, thank you, and now, please, with the de facto Mrs Adamová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u40	Thank you for the floor. He already beat me to it, I wanted to go to Mr Komárek through the President exactly the same thing. It's nice that the analytical team has processed a list of your arguments, but it would be more important to process if they weren't relevant. And even if the arguments were only ten, five, but they were relevant, that's why we're here to discuss them, and you should just respond not to their number or how many times we've repeated them, here we can at least see that the urgency on our part is justified, but why we're actually turning to you, to the substance of the matter. I'm sorry the Minister isn't even here right now when we're discussing this point. I hope he's only gone away for a while, because then we'd definitely have to interrupt the negotiations until he's here. However, I'm not suggesting it. I'm just looking forward to Mr Komárek explaining not only the 30 arguments when he continues the factual ones, but maybe he'll apply properly to tell us what the analytical team has analyzed about their relevance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u41	Yes, thank you, and please, with another de facto Mr Novotný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u42	I'll be brief. Perhaps it would be good if Mr Komárek showed us the output of the Zubr and Carnation Agency - I would watch out for the Zubr, that is the brand of beer, and at a time when you propose the discounting, there might be a conflict of interest. Statistics of this agency regarding the appearance of your Minister of Finance in the first two years of his work in this House. There would be those ideas that repeated over and over and that we all remembered so much that they became slogans, ridiculous and standard parts of our language, i.e. All the burglars, Kalousek had a hent of the same Šnábl etc., so that would be statistics where there would be no numbers 10, 15, 20, there would be numbers 400, 500 etc. We've been listening to this place for years, so don't reprimand us for a few dozen or more arguments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u43	Yes, thank you, and I am now asking you with a proper application from Mr Pavera. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u44	Nice and pleasant morning, Madam President, Minister, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. I wanted to get off first with something completely different, but because sometimes the ideas of some people are much faster, I will use what appeared a moment ago on the facebook of Mr. Marian Jurečka, who said: A year ago I received an incentive from brewers to see if the state could reduce the excise tax on beer. At the time, I was discussing this issue with coalition partners and, above all, the Minister of Finance was opposed because of a state budget cutout, and today he is proposing a reduction in VAT only for beer. Let each person take a picture of this step himself. If we want to act rationally and truly for the benefit of the people and the most vulnerable groups of society, then I will want to reduce the VAT on food, because it will really help families with children, seniors, people with lower incomes. That would be an honest measure and I will therefore want to discuss it. When we do this, let's talk about reducing VAT on other items. - So much for Mr. Marian Jurečka's quote. And now for my part, which I would like to tell you and respond to yesterday's speech by Minister Babiš on the show You have the floor. I'm sure you'll be interested, because some of you may not have had the time. The Minister was a guest of Mrs Jílková and, as always, he showed up today, equipped with many colorful graphics and also strengthened by support in the audience as well as in the form of Deputy Minister. Of course, the minister did not fail to perform, as he always did populistly and sometimes did not say true things, as we have known him for two years. Mr Babiš has publicly stated that 30,000 entrepreneurs wish to introduce electronic sales records. I would like to draw Mr Babiš's attention to the fact that the survey of the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders of the Czech Republic showed that 71 respondents said that electronic sales records should not be mandatory. Another survey of the Median Agency for Czech Television says that 56 percent of the businesses and entrepreneurs contacted are concerned about the introduction of electronic sales records. And what do these entrepreneurs, I note, have a legitimate concern about? I'm asking Mr. Martin Komárek here to take a piece of paper and make his mark again, because I'm going to repeat some things here. Questioners are mainly afraid of increased administration, high acquisition costs for a new machine, but also possible misuse of the data transmitted. I repeat: increase of administrative burden, cost of purchase and misuse of data. Mr. Babiš next statement was that the companies wanted a check report. Did the companies really want this? According to a survey for Deloitte, two thirds of companies, i.e. 66 percent, agreed that the introduction of control reports would represent an increase in administration and time-consumingness. And here we are again, a greater administrative burden. And basically, the Minister has already admitted it, because he's already preparing an amendment to the law. Mr. Babiš also said that the Financial Administration only cares about pairing invoices, nothing more. As one of the reasons he introduced the carousel business. In addition, he also boasted that the Ministry of Finance already has a tool to detect this crime. Thanks to them, his employees discovered a fraud of 130 companies for nearly 4.5 billion. And that is the direction that we should continue to take. Large networks of companies that cut taxes in large numbers, not small businesses in municipalities and small towns. It is sufficient that one large company has several companies at a time and can also reduce its tax base among them. As has already been said here and we have seen it on the electoral poster of Minister Babiš this morning, the Minister also said on television that he is proposing a reduction in the tax on brewed beer from 21 percent to 10 percent. Not only is it very populist, but I think it is also in this proposal that it expresses concern that the introduction of EET can really hit small shops, small pubs in villages and the like, which most likely ends at 99 percent. In addition, he also stated that they would introduce a receipt lottery, they would give out prizes and so forth, so that the Ministry of Finance will now create a betting office or some other office to deal with these matters. Throughout the programme, the Minister also mentioned a number of inaccuracies and false information that he was still reducing taxes, that they had just increased, that there was no economic crisis. This is really strange that it was not the many years of economic crisis when the whole world was dealing with the economic crisis, and it was not the right-wing ministers who did unpopular, but the necessary economic reforms, which were perhaps drastic, perhaps more than it was healthy, but thanks to them, we now have a stable economic system, and thanks to them, Mr Babiš in 2014 and 2015 was able to release a number of funds that were on various state accounts for the needs of our citizens. Mr Babiš also said that behind Kalouska Prague was a tax haven. On this point, I would like to say that Mr Kalousek was the first to introduce the transformation of the Financial Administration, which is basically working today. And actually, Minister Babiš is taking advantage of her today. He also claimed that we did nothing to collect taxes, but I think that the fact that more tax money is being collected today is not the credit of this government, but it is primarily the credit of our skilled entrepreneurs and that the economy is really growing beyond peace than originally counted. I said here last year, maybe in March, now I don't remember exactly having a lower budget tax determination, and I said if it comes true, I'd apologize to the Minister. I apologize to the Minister for not being right about more money being raised at the end of the year. However, I also have to say that it was not the credit of Minister Babiš, but, above all, that the economy grew much more than the Ministry of Finance's estimate for all experts, because the estimate was 2.7 and the economy grew by more than 4% of GDP. The programme also said that TOP 09 did not want more money for municipalities and cities. I think that all those who saw me standing behind this counter, as well as a number of my colleagues, the TOP 09 and the ODS, were parties that fought to increase the budgetary determination of taxes. I believe that the Minister will also remember this in the coming years, and indeed the budgetary determination of taxes for municipalities and cities will strengthen, just as it has strengthened for the regions. What I would like to say further is that TOP 09 does not just criticize the proposal without a solution of its own. We have our own proposal, which is not acceptable to the coalition, but we have a solution, namely the enforcement of a single collection and control point, which would not only lead to an increase in tax collection, but would also simplify the whole system of tax collection and control. And here I am again saying that Mr Komárek can draw a line, that the administrative burden for our entrepreneurs will be reduced again. I would also like to mention further information, which has already been said here, that the accounting system is introduced in countries such as Belgium, Sweden, Italy or Croatia, or even Slovenia. First of all, I always welcome the Czech Republic's being ahead on some issues in the context of more advanced neighbours. You know, I'm also trying in health care to be a world unique, and I'm asking Minister Němeček to do something about the treatment of diabetic leg with stem cells. I will no longer read all the factual arguments on the issue, because all this information on the record of sales can be found on our website www.top09.cz. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u45	Thank you for keeping the time limit. And now two factual points. With the first to the microphone of Mr Kučera and then Mr Koskuba. Mr Kučera cancels his application, so please Mr Koskuba. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u46	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I often read in the press that, if the EET is being discussed, the coalition partners leave YES on their own, so I go behind this counter and I want to respond to a number of previous speakers. Of course, as a coalition MP, I still have no reason to speak out against the EET, but I thank my colleagues for asking them to remove the banner. You guys were talking about tax cuts on barrel beer. I agree with the Minister that it is unnecessary to burden our citizens with ever greater and greater taxes, i.e. I welcome any reduction. However, in this case, I consider it such a beautiful election move, because perhaps already in the old Austria it was said that the government, which will raise the beer, would fall. We have convinced ourselves that this is not the case with us, but I believe that beers and innkeepers will appreciate the VAT reduction on keg beer. But when this is discussed by the Coalition Council, I would like to hear it say whether it is not possible to reduce VAT mainly to the water we all need, even the innkeepers to wash out the pints. It is still more and more expensive and I confess, because we in hospitals, so I have a personal interest in it, we consume the waters of the mountains, we don't get our VAT refunded. So I'd like to ask you to consider whether the VAT is going to be reduced to beer, if the water isn't more valuable after all. And I believe that even those who don't go to the pub will appreciate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u47	I thank you, and now with Mr Fiedler in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u48	I thank my colleague Koskuba for supporting my idea, which I have already said here, that if we were to lower VAT on beer, what about the water that children drink in that restaurant. And what I was talking about -- it's just the non-alcoholic drinks we should prefer, right? But on top of that non-systemic proposal for VAT on beer. I don't want to stand up for anyone, and especially not what's wrong with us lately. But here in this Chamber of Deputies, many times it was said that the Nečasův government took many bad steps - Minister Janota, I myslit - there has been an increase in excise duty on beer by 33 percent, in 2010 I think it has been, since 1. Ten o'clock. So here - system step - let's put it back. It's always said what went wrong. And that was a system step. So I propose this bad system move - let's coalitions, the opposition together - to put it back. And let's put it back where it was, where it worked well. Nothing more, nothing less. The Coalition Council can discuss this. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u49	Thank you. And now, please, with Mr Kort's proper application. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u50	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would like to point out that the name Korte is inclined, and Korte, Korte, is bowing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u51	Yes, thank you. But you're running a limit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u52	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have in my hand a brochure of 18 times 13 centimeters, where the envelope itself looks at us with an Andrej Babiš look which reveals that it is a man of strict but justness. [[shows]] [[Laughter from the right.]] However, the brochure itself raises some questions. There's no tip, there's no publisher, there's no author. Unless we're supposed to believe that the author is, according to the photograph, Andrej Babiš himself, as well as the other five inside the text, and according to something like a preface where Mr. Andrej Babiš is signed. Otherwise, it's basically an anonymous pamphlet. To be honest, I doubt that Mr Andrej Babiš would be the author of this, because if I am to judge by his verbal speeches here in the House or on discussion TV shows, he is barely able to write 28 pages of the text. True, there's a lot of pictures, but after all...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u53	[[He's coming in.]] I'll ask the Minister to put the sign down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u54	Anyway... [[Vice-President Babiš speaks off the microphone.]] I would ask the Minister not to disturb, to mumble.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u55	Minister -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u56	I'm gonna have to work on that text so...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u57	Minister, please -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u58	[[It interrupts the speech of the steering meeting and continues very loudly.]] I will have to work with the text so that the author is Andrej Babiš!!! [[Member Laudat wants to apply the tech, which he is not allowed to do. So he goes to Minister Babiš and speaks to him outside the microphone. Some ANO Members express their opposition; others are standing in front of their benches on the right. Restlessness in the room.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, let's take a look at the preface. He's got three paragraphs. I quote, but I've been caught up with electronics too... Well, there's a grammatical error, Minister, it should be me, but you wouldn't understand. [[More and more noise in the room.]] By the way, your graphicians did a pretty crappy job because it's in white on a light-blue background, so it's very hard to read. [[Minister Babiš sitting in a government stand still behind Mr Korte's back picking up his banner again.]] Even though I've struggled for a long time, today I have two very - exclamation point - smart phones...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u59	Minister...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u60	...and I learned how to use an iPad... Will you keep yelling at me, Madam Vice-President?! [[There's a lot of unrest in the room.]] So please, what we've learned here. We have learned that we have a learned minister who does not hesitate to commend himself. Just recently, when he was waving his file under my colleague Šincl's nose, he claimed that he preferred paper. And now, look, he's bragging about two smartphones and even the ability to use an iPad. It is gratifying that the Minister, though still at a certain age, is able to learn new things. Too bad he didn't learn to collect taxes. It doesn't seem to have a correlation to the growth of the economy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u61	Well, Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry. At this point, I'm interrupting the meeting for ten minutes and calling the House Grémium to President Hamáček. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 10:27 p.m. We'll continue the adjourned negotiations. Before I give the floor to my colleague Korte, who has been interrupted, and for the service, he has 6 minutes 23 seconds until the end of his speech, I would like to call all of you to refer to the matter, not to a personal level, because I think that the Chamber of Deputies is not the space for us to express ourselves in this way. Whatever our opinion, we should maintain the rules of conduct among ourselves. Thank you. And now I ask Mr Korte to continue his speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u63	Thank you for returning the word. I'll keep going. In the second paragraph of the preface of the pamphlet, it is said that it is a revolutionary system as far as the EET is concerned. I'm a little surprised that the whole developed world is so sluggish that it hasn't understood it yet and hasn't accepted this revolutionary system. Croatia has it, which is not exactly an economic tiger, and from the former 15 countries, it has some sort of accounts for Sweden, Belgium, Italy. According to data from the Croatian Ministry of Finance, VAT from retail trade was collected in 2010 and 2011. Kun. In 2012, it was 40 billion. A rising trend. In 2013, the EET was introduced and the selection remained roughly at the same level - I won't give a little bit, it was a little less - so that in 2014 there would be a decrease in the collection of this tax by 8 percent. So, apparently, that's what revolutionary is all about. The rising trend of tax collection with the introduction of EET will turn to a lower, i.e. the original level. Bravo, nice success! In the third paragraph of this preface signed by Mr Babiš, the first sentence is and the last sentence stated by the verb I believe. So it's probably some sort of Mr. Babišův credo. Why not, your faith has healed you, it doesn't say anything. Only the third sentence is remarkable: it is primarily for politicians to show that they are able to deal with selected public funds in a meaningful way. For God's Ján, who else should handle selected public funds other than politicians?! The enigmaticity of this sentence is evidently due to the fact that Minister Andrej Babiš is not a politician. We now proceed to the chapter on page 23 - chapter What's it gonna take, and what's it gonna cost? There's a square in the middle where it says what all the extra tax collections in five years -- all that can be bought for it. It's supposed to be 60 billion, or 12 billion. per year. We heard 18 today. I don't know how much. It's fiction anyway, it's housenumero. These are three items: Adding 420 crowns a month to each pension, 200 km of new motorways, adding 6500 crowns to each teacher's salary. I look away from the fact that both graphically and textically - there is no clutch or - pretends that all of this can be taken for 60 billion. But let's take a closer look. The number of pensions, I stress pensions, not pensioners, paid in the Czech Republic is approximately 3.5 million. Exactly according to the Czech Social Security Administration in 2014 it was 3 576 472. Let's do a simple math calculation: 3.5 miles. times 420 times 12 months in a year times 5 years is equal to 88.2 billion. So our dear minister just needs more than 28 billion to meet this one item.! Minister, did you just say that again, or are you deliberately deceiving the public, that is, are you lying, or are you not in control of elementary mathematical actions? [[10.30 hours]] Two hundred kilometers of highways - according to the SAO it costs an average of 416 million to purchase one kilometer of highway. A simple math operation, 416 million times 200 equals 83 billion 200 million. Our beloved Minister is short of more than 23 billion to meet this three items. Minister, did you just say that again, or are you deliberately deceiving the public in your pamphlet? So you're lying because you just can't help but lie, even if you don't have to, or you just can't count. I look forward to hearing your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u64	Am I to understand that you've finished your speech? Otherwise, you would still be entitled to a time grant for about a minute 20, because your speech was interrupted. Okay. I take it you've finished your speech. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I will read the note that arrived: from 11 o'clock to the end of the day, Mr Ondráček apologizes for personal reasons, from 10 o'clock Mr Petr Adam also for personal reasons, from 11 o'clock to the end of the day for personal reasons, Mr Hana Aulická Jírovcová apologises. We will continue the debate. Another registered comment is the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u65	Thank you, Mr President. I am so glad that Mr Korte studied the brochure to learn something. I'm also used to Mr Korte insulting me here and being personal. I'm glad he told me I couldn't do anything, I can't actually count, actually, I suck. That is why I am where I am, and that is why Mr Korte is where he is. [[Laughter and applause from the center of the hall.]] Those highways, well, it depends on whether or not they were built by Kalousek Řebíček and Kalousek, how much they cost. We counted 300 miles. on the plane, you know, without tunnels, without the Blanka tunnel, but that's not on the highway, some other tunnel. Those tunnels are good for you. But I'm glad you admit the money's in there. The brochure yes, the brochure - for the first time in my life I'm in a job where I have to be careful not to sign something so they don't lock me up, you'd love it, and I'm sure you'd like the criminal report on the EET that the police are investigating because we took the liberty of spending a few crowns. [[He's laughing.]] Well, I made the brochure my own, that's why it's what it is. It cost 57 grand, I paid it out of my taxed money. My wife's brother did the design of the brochure for free, he's experienced, he's been doing all sorts of things to us on the campaign. Well, it's true what it says. So I'm also actually incapable of not using a computer, but at least they can't hack me. [[Laughs in the hall.]] You're right, I guess I suck, but I hope you understand. I had a Czech class yesterday, too, so I'm trying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u66	Thank you. Now, with Mr Kučera's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u67	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Andrej Babiš, I am very glad you mentioned the highways here. So far, you haven't been able to build, I guess, a mile or so, and it looks like you're not gonna be able to build a freeway for a long time. The reason is not the price, of course. You can say here that a kilometer of highway will cost CZK 10 million, CZK 200 million, it's just a game of numbers. The reasons why you don't build highways are botched laws from the ANO minister's workshop. I'd mention the messed-up law of Mr. former Transport Minister Prachař and his land purchase bill, which blocked the construction of highways. I'm going to mention a botched law from the EIA environmental minister's workshop, which has completely blocked the construction of highways. So I believe those highways are going to cost 300 million, but when you start building, maybe two more election periods will pass. You haven't built a mile yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u68	Thank you. I'm recording two factual points. First up, Mr Korte, Mr. Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u69	Thank you. Minister, I must warn you that the figure of 416 million per kilometer of the highway is the official figure of the SAO, while the 300, you sucked it out of your finger and it's about the same as the 12 billion extra. That's what you pulled out of your finger, too. So I'd like us to work with the official numbers. I'm glad you confessed to the authorship of the pamphlet. I'm sorry you threw 57 grand out of your own pocket for that. It's a waste of money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u70	Thank you. Now, then, Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u71	Thank you for the floor. To those highways, please, I told Minister Ťok that we must finally open the highway to the Prague-Dresdens. Do you know when she started building? 1985. So it's supposed to be open in December 2016. You've been in power here, and now I don't know which faction you're from, if you're from ODS or where you came from, or if you came up with Kalousek, but it doesn't matter. That will be the highway we open, the Minister of Transport has promised, and we will celebrate 31 years of construction of the Prague-Dresden motorway. I don't know what it is, about 90 kilometers, so just so we know that... Yes, we've come up with the land purchase bill so we can finally move on. I don't understand why we inherited 119 projects worth CZK 245 billion, 650 kilometers of highways and roads, and there's an EIA that's 10 to I don't know how many years old. [[10.40 hours]] This morning I spoke with the Commissioner, Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Dombrovský, and our priority interest in the Czech Republic is to convince the European Commission to allow us to build those motorways. I'm asking, why didn't you build them when you were in the V's coalition with Bárta? And Řebíček, who was famous, had no conflict of interest, no, he parked in Viamont on his buddies and then made 13 billion for his company. No, this is where you keep criticizing me, no. I am transparent, transparent. So why didn't you build those highways? I'm really surprised because we need to convince today so we can build those highways. And I made it clear that there was no construction, no investment, no traffic, there was no money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u72	Your time, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u73	How many things couldn't have been built because you didn't have the money. You didn't want money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u74	I lead the debaters to discipline, from both sides. We are not dealing with the construction of motorways, we are not dealing with financing of motorways or previous cases. The debate is being held on the subject of electronic sales records and I ask the debaters to stick to the subject that we are discussing today. Thank you for respecting that. We will continue the debate and Mrs Adamová is signed up. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that the Minister has arrived at today's meeting, because he hasn't been to interpelations since April last year, and instead we learned from his Facebook yesterday that he is going to the pub to prepare for the show. I respect, of course, that it is necessary to prepare for such a thing, but he probably invented the beer when he can't drink it here, because here you introduced a ban on alcohol consumption and sales, so that he would go to the pub to think about whether he might need to lower the VAT on beer. However, it would be nice if, Minister, you would also go to those interviews, because some Members have been receiving written answers for several months, and we would really like you to understand that, as Minister, you are in charge of the Chamber of Deputies. Anyway, get to the point. As far as EET is concerned, the government has clearly chosen one enemy, or he's not one, he's almost 600,000, he's a businessman, and he's declared war on him. It is not surprising when we look at the composition of the government, when we actually have ČSSD on the one hand, of course the famous statement by Mr Mládek is already considered by the tradesmen as parasites, and on the other hand we have YES, i.e. Minister Babiš, who is also a big businessman, so, of course, they are also competitors for him. But the battles in the war that were unleashed on the tradesmen are quite clear and readable. One of them is to cancel a single collection point. Many of you may have forgotten what it is, because you canceled immediately after this government was actually established. So it didn't even make life easier for businessmen. Consequently, the introduction of VAT control reports, so once a month, some once a quarter must increase their bureaucracy again and focus their activity in a different direction than to make money, but really focus on this report. And we know how it worked or works in practice, from the very beginning, with big problems. So that was another battle you chose. And now we're fighting another one, and it's called electronic sales log. But there is one more central account log, which is not spoken of so far, but it will, of course, burden businessmen, even though it is not just them. The weapons used in this war are mainly of an informational nature. It is actually very simple and it is already such a propaganda, when Mr. Babiš called the group of tradesmen actually the biggest cheaters in this state, as thieves, on a flat-rate basis titled them, he puts all the problems of the Czech Republic on them. In fact, we don't all have pensions, or we don't have pensions, or we don't have other expenses for the state because they're the main taxpayers. Of course, this long and often repeated lie becomes true in some people's perception, so the public also feels that it is actually the businessman against whom the war needs to be waged and fought. And who really is the biggest tax collector? It's 5 per cent, really 5 per cent of the bad guys, and 95 per cent, who are the really more serious cheaters, if I call it that, we resigned to them? We're not going to point that gun at them, are we going to point it at the sparrow? This war, which is therefore being waged against the very marginal ones - and it was described perfectly here by a fellow Member of Farský, namely the specific case of Synthesie, etc. But I won't say it again. I'm sure you can find it in your tent, or Mr. Komárek will give you the argument from the analysis team. So in this war, those who are the main enemy can defend themselves in a very difficult way. They don't have time for this. First of all, they need to do their job in order to make a living. They also need to focus on the bureaucracy that's on them. I am not just saying that this government has done this, but it is, of course, a long-term process and certainly many bureaucracy is justified, but it is increasingly on them. They also need to focus on learning and orientation about changes in legislation. When I talk to them and ask them how to actually help them most, they say: let it be a stable environment, no matter how much we don't have to learn every six months, dozens of new changes that affect us every year. Because they're mostly just themselves, or they have a maximum of one or two employees, they certainly don't have an apparatus, they don't have a legal department, like big businesses that would process these changes and that would help them get their bearings. That's what takes them away from the work itself, from the very work that would make them more money so that they can take away more from the taxes that we're talking about. They also do not have their unions as opposed to employees, who, of course - any change is disadvantageous to them, they are affected, so they can turn to those unions. They may have associations, but, as I say, they're hardly going to be able to demonstrate in the square. So it's a very comfortable war for this government because it's being waged against someone who's actually in a completely disadvantageous position, who can hardly defend himself, who has enough work to actually not have time to do something else. So as for the tradesmen, how should we help them? That's what we should be trying to answer here in the first place, we should be talking about this. I didn't get much of that from you or the Minister here. It is therefore important to less burden it with the bureaucracy, the frequency of change, as I said. This is what is very often burdened by actually the most what they mention most often. And then they themselves will have more confidence in the system, in its sustainability, and also predictableness, because this is something that is of course important to them. And the few percent of today's taxpayers, who, for example, are not even motivated, or feel that way, might be motivated to pay them. And if they don't, if they still don't pay, and if they avoid paying them, then let the tax authorities shine on them, let us use the relevant current legislation that is in force, and let us focus on the non-payers in this way. Let's not punish everyone on a flat-rate basis. Let's not treat them all forward as thieves. So when they have time to do their own work, they earn more and pay more in taxes. It's simple. I would also like to focus on the fact that we are inspired by Chorvatsko. So in this case I have found a share of the grey economy here in our country and in Croatia and this comparison is like this - I will find 2015 here up here, i.e. the larger share, I can, of course, also make it available to you, maybe you can come to me or meet me here in the negotiations. [[shows written material in the raised hand]] So Croatia 27,7 %, with us 15,1. So we're inspired by fives, if we're twos ourselves, let's say. Yesterday was a report card, so it's probably similar to if you said to your son or daughter: you have a second in mathematics, but you could be tutored by Novák, who's failing, who's barely holding, but he's bought a better calculator now, so he's better off. [[10.50 hours]] So certainly in this regard, if we continue to do so, we can, for example, also in the case of corruption, which has also recently come out of the chart, inspire, for example, such Bulgaria, although we are much better off in the perception of corruption. Why not inspire ourselves with Denmark when we can inspire ourselves with someone who is much worse in this case and is behind us? That's the same example. It's the same case. We're inspired here by a country that has the system that's most similar to the one that's the worst in the world, or much worse than we are. In this regard, I think it is once again a very sophisticated propaganda effort by the Ministry of Finance and Minister Babiš, just as it did yesterday on the many times mentioned programme on tax reductions on keg beer. This is again a piece of populist action in this case, just as before Christmas was handing out cashiers at the Ministry of Finance. I would be very interested to know if it was carried out only by the Minister instead of his work, or if it was dealt with by Treasury officials, whether it was in the description of their work, to engage in such activities and to hand out cashiers to those who applied for them. These are all tools in the war against tradesmen, so very pleasing to those who are not businessmen, because nothing can happen to them, they don't have to deal with it. But I think that we should all be dealing with this and that we should all think about it. [[deal with]] [[Attention on time.]] If it's better not to make life easier for those businessmen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u76	Thank you, too. Now with a point of fact, Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Mrs Langšádlová will be ready. In that case, Mr Leoš Heger. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the absent Mr Kalousek to exchange the speech with his members because it is pointless and you keep saying it here. Why do you say "untrue"? I never said businessmen were cheaters. That's a lie. I'm doing something for these businessmen. Yes, I lower their taxes. And what did you do? Well, you've abolished their tax benefits for children and their wives since 1 January 2013. tvůj Kalousek. You guys were actually pushing into a corner today on the front page of Law... [[He's taking the paper and reading it.]] Last year in the Czech Republic, 8,000 businessmen failed. A large share of their bankruptcy is low payment morale, the enforcement of companies. That's the environment you set up here. Eight thousand businessmen thanks to you. So don't tell the truth here. So just change your speech already. Cashiers. I handed out 4,000 checkouts to the kids. And they're playing with it, and they know they're supposed to get a receipt. And we sent the cashiers directly to the addresses of the people who asked for the cashier. And the ones I handed out at the Ministry were done by my employees, which I pay privately, by no one in the Ministry. So please, I understand that TOP 09 is fighting for survival. And I'd like the ODS to swallow her up, because you can't listen to that. I would love them to be swallowed up, to be holy peace. And one more thing, Madam through Mr President. I was at the beer and stew. The beer at Glaubice, here's the receipt from 13.55 and I took the liberty of going for a beer, pint 33, now that the tax is down, so it's going to be minus 3 crowns 60, goulash 219, so you're going to save 13 crowns. [[shows]] [[Attention on time.]] And I was on my lunch break. Then don't call me an absentee. And the fact that tweet time doesn't mean time to consume, you might as well learn.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u78	[[He's drawing attention to the expiration of time again.]] I will ask you to respect the time taken for a factual remark, because if all Members behave like that, it will break down the system of factual remarks. I will ask Mr Laudát, Mr Adamec will prepare himself with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u79	Thank you for the floor. I find it completely cynical when the minister says after two years of his government, when entrepreneurs end their business and business, that it is tops 09, which has 26 Members here in the club. His cynicism, his incredible way of expression, his impenetrable populism, is really bordering on everything. I think, Minister, you're the Minister of Finance, so start acting like one. As the political scene looks, voters will decide. So far, your hat's down that they're taking away your populist flings, listening to them, but the question is, how long can you last? Like President Zeman, you're pouring oil into the fire on all sides in a completely incredible way. And if it was eight grand this year, because businessmen are very intelligent, and last year they figured out that when they're reporting control reports, that means the little ones are going to give twice as much cost, maybe even more of their tax advisors or accountants, they're going to have to accept more forces to manage to report data to you, so they figured it wouldn't pay them back. Every little thing... There was a charge for standards here yesterday. You really are so smart, for Agrofert money is, but for small businessmen who have to do according to standards, they need technical standards to make quality and safe products, so pay, pay, pay. I'd like to ask you here, what did you do for the businessman? What have you done for our citizens? So far, you're just loading them up, and you're building it so that there are citizens for the state and not the state for the citizens. That's your whole ideology. Unfortunately, I'm sorry, so far the citizens are listening to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u80	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Adamec. Excuse me? [[Ambassador Adamec is objecting.]] I say: Mr Adamec now, then. And Mrs Adamová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u81	Thank you. Mr President, Mr Minister. I'll be brief. I'm sorry, I heard Adamec wasn't here. I think we're a little more nervous on Friday. But I didn't come here to criticize the Minister, I wouldn't dare. But I'd like to ask him to be kind to the Civil Democratic Party and not send her death kisses like you're gonna swallow the TOP 09. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u82	Thank you. Now, then, Mrs Adamová. Mr. Benešík will be ready. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u83	Thank you. I have to respond to the Minister, to the fact that he was at lunch at the time of the break. Well, that's okay, then I'm sorry. However, when it comes to interpelling, you haven't mentioned why you haven't been going to them since April. You always choose something you respond to. What, of course, comes in handy with that statement of yours so that it's pleasing so that you can challenge the opposition that it doesn't have a program of its own, and so on. But the fact that you didn't go to interpelation, that you couldn't have been questioned here for several times yesterday, you've forgotten that again in your reaction. Well, to make it right, not being u the Glaubic's, well, but not being here, that's a fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u84	Thank you. Ondřej Benešík withdraws his factual comment. In that case, Minister Andrej Babiš will now speak with his point of fact. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u85	Mrs Adamová, through Mr President, I am sorry that I do not go to these interventions. I'm having fun arguing with you guys. I'm really enjoying it. And I made a commitment to be better this year. But you say I haven't been here since April, but I've been here. There were two interpelations this year, so I was here, sitting here, remembering this fellow Farský here, talking about Harrachov. So I have 50% participation so far. So I'm getting better, and I promise I'll always do my best to come here and argue with you if it's an interpelation, not a fag.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u86	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Novotný, with a point of fact. Mrs Adamová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u87	Such a nice morning once more from me. Minister Babiš said here a moment ago that we have wrongly put in his mouth a statement that businessmen are frauds. I don't want to argue here if that statement ever sounded explicit. I, when I was in the Events yesterday, commenting on one of his closest associates, he said to me before the meeting, "Well, you're growing. That's how he reacted to our preference growth. And one of my fellow Members here at one of the last meetings, Babiš, expressed our preference growth explicitly by converting preferences into numbers of people, I believe, a number of 180 thousand came out, and he said: These are the crooks of the tradesmen, and they probably grew up for you. That's what it said. You can look it up. I don't remember that name. You can look it up in the log. I want to ask the Minister of Finance what's going on with that statement. What is his idea of the number of crooks among the tradesmen if he shares this view of his MP's club. Because if he didn't say that, his colleagues undoubtedly said it. And that number was quite high and offensive to the business situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u88	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, then, Mrs Adamová, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u89	I don't think I'm gonna report to the next one, 'cause that could still be an endless response. But now that you, Minister, have spoken of the interventions as a fag, which is not the first time, I would like to ask you to follow the remark made by Vice-President Jermanová that we will not only speak politely here, but that we will not attack each other in this way. It's very, very cheap. And I think in this particular way. Again, you need to realise that the Government is responsible to the Chamber of Deputies. It's like this. If that's the case, study it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u90	Thank you, too. Now, therefore, duly logged in to the debate. First, Mr Leoš Heger will appear and Mrs Anna Putnová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u91	Thank you for the floor. Dear Members of the Government, honourable Members, at the beginning of today's day, we have heard here a debate by Vice Prime Minister Babiš on how arguments are repeated, as he is responding to the rational ones, but that there are a lot of irrational ones that cannot be addressed. So, at the beginning of my speech, I would like to say that I'm probably willing to be included in the group that is stalling here and not presenting its messages as Mr. Vice Prime Minister would have imagined. I think there is something that needs to be added to this position, and I hope that this will not be seen as an escape from the subject by Mr President, because the topic here in the EET debate will be set up by the petitioner. That is how it must be said that Parliament has its own rules of procedure, and there is absolutely nothing to be said in these Rules of Procedure that it is necessary to speak in the context of a problem and in the framework of the introduction of a new regulation or a new agenda, that it is necessary to talk about the operational problems of this agenda. I'm sure these are very complicated. I admit that I am neither a financial expert nor an expert in the management of the entire system of finance, accounting, reporting and so on and so on, and that I will therefore talk about this matter from a general, let's say political point of view. A colleague of Komárek mentioned here the number of arguments that have been raised here unnecessarily and repeatedly, and addressed it to the opponents who are performing here. I think maybe he should address this criticism in the ranks of his own political movement, because what we hear here now in these replicas is not only factual remarks from the opposition, but they are also the factual remarks of Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš, who make the same arguments over and over again: all of you have caused what is happening here, all of you are liars, Kalousek is the worst man and so on. So I hope that those few personal remarks that I want to express to somebody from a certain not professional, but from a political perspective about EET, I think they can be heard here, even though many of them have already been said here, but that each Member has a right on very serious matters, and that EET is an extremely serious matter that will change our financial environment is absolutely true. So I'd like it to be traceable in the tapes that I didn't say yes to the principles that are being introduced here. By the way, while I'm on these principles, they're not just the principles of rationalization or changing the techniques in different agendas, but there are some higher principles that affect what's happening in our country. If it is said to be reduced to 10 percent of the value added tax on beer, it is a slap in the face of trying part of the political scene, whether it is left-wing or right-wing. The right-wing scene has tried to optimize VAT as needed under the economic situation and is based on the need to bring rates together as soon as possible. Today, we have another hit that will cause the opposite. On the left side, there was an effort to use VAT to help poor people who should, in their left-wing opinion, and I am not in so much conflict with it, an advantage in some things, especially where poverty threatens them, and therefore it has been brought to the conclusion that basic foods will be cheaper due to a reduction in VAT. So if basic food and beer are cheaper, it is a mockery of everything that many people have tried in the past to make this nation live healthier and to do so in some way indirectly. Soon we'll be talking about fiery water, about the need to lower VAT on other alcoholic beverages, and we'll talk about whether or not the fire water has wiped out some nations in the past. And with regard to the reduced tax on books, there could be a very similar rhetoric. Well, I'm not going to develop on it anymore. The critics of our performance will appreciate that I have not repeated the views that I will say here for ten minutes, and that I have taken my time, which I have at my disposal because of the decision that speaking time will be shortened and reduced, so that I have used that time a little differently. A general view of the EET can be started by stating that another, completely new law should be added, which will once again make our legal order more obscure and confusing. The rule of law, as we know, suffers from the annual inflation of various changes and amendments to laws and other sub-legal standards, so that even experts are often not able to navigate well in the time and space of this legal mess. The least popular areas are tax lawmaking. [[11.10 hours]] Citizens and, above all, entrepreneurs expect Members from us to try to remedy this situation at least a little and simplify legislation where it is quite easy to do so. Tax legislation is directly offered as an area which we can significantly simplify to make it more accessible to all taxpayers and taxpayers, so as to burden citizens and entrepreneurs as little as possible. That is why TOP 09 has prepared a single collection point in the past to simplify reporting and paying taxes, as well as simplifying work for tax officials, who could then pay more attention to checks on fraudsters, who seek to cheat mainly on indirect taxes and each year deprive the state of tens of billions of crowns of tax evasion and value added tax fraud. Let me say once again that TOP 09 has thus tried to fight taxpayers, not to support fraudsters, as it is very often repeated here. Unfortunately, the current government coalition has trampled the project of a single collection point without a reasonable explanation into the country and instead is preparing a brand-new law on electronic record of sales, which will make our rule of law even worse. It can be assumed that the current government, above all in the person of the finance minister, has confirmed our suspicion that it is not about improving the lives of the citizens of this state or improving the business environment, but about the greatest possible lack of clarity of legislation so that different wealthy, or odd owners of companies with unclear structures can hire expensive lawyers and advisors -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u92	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, but your time is up. If you end your speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u93	Thank you. I'll take the liberty of continuing the next round.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u94	Thank you. Mrs Putnová, now duly applied for. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u95	Good morning, Mr President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen. When I was thinking about my speech from the point of view of introducing electronic sales records, I asked myself two questions: whether this law is truly anti-corruption, as the government likes to describe itself as anti-corruption, and how it will affect users, not providers and businessmen who will be forced to give their records, but how it will affect consumers of the environment in which the traders move. This means how it will affect citizens and how it will affect patients as well. Unfortunately, on the first question I asked myself whether this law had corrupt potential, I had to answer yes, this bill carries hidden corruption potential. I do not know if it is on the list of arguments that Mr Komárek has put here, but if not, I hope that the analytical department of Zubr and karafiát will add them to the list of these arguments. I see the corruption potential in the fact that we have created the conditions for the phase, and I quite understand the joy of the coalition partners and the rapporteur, Klaška, when he negotiated the individual stages of the attack in October. Because I understand that he sees it as a political success. I believe that these terms will continue to be discussed in the future. That what was set in October last year may not yet be the deadline. After all, we have experience in Czech lawmaking with the deadline and delay! Whether it's a service law or a delay in math. So I see the hidden corruption potential in the fact that the terms, as they are proposed, will be subject to further political arrangements and other political trades. You can suggest that it doesn't happen. But if you're convinced that's not going to happen, and it can't happen, then I'd like it to be very clear here. The other area is what I said as another topic that I would like to address, and that is the quality of life that will be related to when entrepreneurs decide to end their activities. I had the opportunity this summer to meet a number of my friends, some of whom are doctors. They're doctors of my generation, doctors of my pre-retirement age. They shared their fears and their unwillingness to learn new technical things during a period in which they are already planning their retirement age. This may seem petty to you, but at the meeting of the Economic Committee, I asked Deputy Secretary Hornochová if a group had been formed that would have made a qualified estimate of how many practitioners would have ceased their activities because they did not have computers, they have a paper filing cabinet, and they are not willing to switch to a new way of working in their basically pre-retirement age. I only received a general response concerning general feasibility systems or feasibility methods, but I have not yet received such information as a study that would focus specifically on this area. So I took the liberty of taking a closer look at the question of doctors, their action and their connection to the electronic system. I will deal with both dentists and children's doctors. In the register of doctors, dentists and pharmacists in the Czech Republic it was registered as at 31. 12. 2013 total 40 619 doctors. According to the findings of the Czech Medical Chamber, 20 percent of doctors do not use a computer at work and about 40 percent of them do not have Internet access. These are sources that can be traced to the website. All sources are traceable in my speech in this sense. Each year there is a slight increase in the average age of doctors. In 2013, the average age of active physicians of men was 49,3 years and women were 47,8 years, total for both sexes 48,4 years. As a result of this development, the percentage of doctors over 60 years of age is increasing. In 2013, this share represented 22.7 %. The proportion of the age group between 50 and 59 years was 25,3%. I want to ask: Do you think, Minister, that doctors, dentists who are not connected to the Internet who work with a paper file are at the age of 50 plus, will be willing to change their habits, will they be willing to change the system of work they were used to? [[11.20 hours]] I'm going to look into the pediatric area now. It is a specialization of doctors with whom families are closely linked and which in terms of their representation is alarming already today. According to the president of the Czech Medical Chamber Milan Kupek, the situation in practical children's doctors is a complete demographic disaster. All doctors in the Czech Republic are getting old, but the worst situation is with practical doctors for children. According to available statistics, the average age of a pediatrician is more than 56 years, almost 80 percent, and, on the contrary, children's doctors under 40 are only 3 percent. In November 2015, practical doctors turned to Minister Babiš and warned that EET would shut down their offices. They criticized increased bureaucracy and cost. These resources can be traced in the Weekly Weekly, and I can also give you an exact quote. At first glance, this social aspect of electronic sales records may not be seen. However, it is important to remember that people often have a doctor for their entire lives, and few of them expect to live with him in some way, which may not happen if they actually close their offices. I wanted to ask you, Minister: do you take this warning seriously from the medical chamber? Do you really believe that there is no need for us to conduct a study that will address the impact on quality of life and on the quality of available medical care in areas that are already very little covered by doctors and where is the critical lack of practical doctors? [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u96	I thank you, and now, please, to Mr Karamazov's microphone, Mr Adamec will be ready. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u97	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, before the last parliamentary elections, we have heard various cries from many of the representatives of the ANO 2011 movement about being a new entity that our political scene has not yet experienced. They said they were not a party, but the movements of disgruntled citizens, movements that change conditions in the Czech Republic, will bring good governance, save public money and, finally, establish a fair government and order. At the pre-election meetings, citizens learned that the YES movement will change politics because it does not bring a traditional conflict of left and right values, but a policy for everyone. We expected the sharp changes for the better that the new political broom would bring. We can see the first fruits of work after two years. Finance Minister Andrej Babiš presented another deficit budget. Coalitions formed by the ANO movement have already fallen in several cities, and in the media it has finally begun to speak openly about who the honest and moral people manage this movement, including Prague. In October 2014, Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš, a fighter against the right-wing perception of the world, said that we have two sides profiling here. One left, the Czech Social Democratic Party, and one right with a social feeling - and that is us, the YES movement. But even before that, Minister Babiš was able to present to the public his excellent idea for a panel discussion - electronic record of sales. This step has given right-wing policy with social feeling a new dimension. The public expects representatives of right-wing policy to minimize state intervention, equality of opportunity, emphasis on individual responsibility and freedom, consistent separation of state and society, including liberal access to markets. All these principles of the right-wing movement are violated by the YES. There is certainly no solidarity with small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and businessmen. On the contrary. The EET extends the powers of the administrative authorities and gives all information on the transactions carried out to the State. Moreover, the new agenda and large amounts of data will require hundreds of new civil servants. Let's think about the consequences of the adoption of electronic sales records. Its acceptance will turn entrepreneurs into improper little children and undermine the last remnants of trust held by small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to state institutions. Hanging the state in combination with disproportionate increase in administrative burden, this is the real Czech business prize. I ask you, Minister, will anyone pay the traders to buy cashiers? Will someone pay the entrepreneurs the cost of Wi-Fi connection, any exchange of cash or purchase of new software when circumstances require it? I highly doubt it. I also doubt the advantages of this whole baggallery for the state. The introduction of the system in life is estimated to cost about 10 billion crowns. When will this money return to the state? Will he ever come back? Wouldn't it be better to cut the sales record by 10 billion instead of cutting the deficit? Exceptionally, I have to give the truth to Jiří Rusnok, who has summed up very cleverly - I quote: We go with a huge shotgun on a relatively small hare about sales records, and it could have been smarter. He wants to make tradesmen and small businessmen admit sales. If I set up a mandatory electronic system for everyone, I'm gonna make it. The question is whether the costs correspond to the effect achieved, which one will be. It's too ambitious from the start. So much for Jiří Rusnok. Another paradox we heard from Andrej Babiš's mouth in July 2014, when the minister with great pompa announced to us that - I quote: The record of sales is important in the fight against the grey economy and at the same time creates fair conditions for all entrepreneurs. - How can registration create a level playing field for all entrepreneurs if it doesn't involve some of them? Does a law that should apply to someone and not others lead to a settlement of the business environment? Are we creating fair conditions for all entrepreneurs? We certainly don't. The business sector is aware of these risks and we can see this on the Financial Administration website, where we will find many questions about the issue of EET. On the pages of some restaurants worried about their very business existence, the Financial Administration is very polite. I quote: If they really fail, it signals a systemic problem that we need to solve as such, not allow violations of laws instead. - Does the government want to tell the tradesmen that after most of them go bankrupt, it will signal a systemic problem for her? Shouldn't we be dealing with systemic problems before we pass the law at third reading? Or doesn't the government care? [[11.30 hours]] There was a mention of restaurants. I can give one particular example of life. I have a friend who's been in the gastronomy business for over 20 years. He has gathered his experiences with me. even in Great Britain and Australia. Compared to the business in these countries, the relationship between the businessman and the state in the Czech Republic is already much more complicated, more complex and too burdened with a lot of bureaucracy. The opening of the restaurant in Australia took him and his Australian brother-in-law only two days with all the permits. Before he managed to open his small bar in Pardubice, it took him two years to complete all bureaucratic acts. He works in his bar six days a week, alone without employees. He never claimed any State aid, subsidies or other benefits from the State. As a businessman, he's been holding on to the water for ten years and doing the work that he likes. His relaxing bar, although not in the very center of the city, found a permanent clientele and in almost family atmosphere customers feel satisfied and like to return. Like any businessman, he makes a tax return once a year, which I think is a sufficient control tool. Currently he can control up to eight state institutions by the law of his business and the operation of the bar and I think that is also enough. It is already flooded with invoices, bills and other documents. The constant monitoring of new and new legislation, regulations, rules and regulations currently burden him so much that he is less concerned with the direct operation of the business. And now he'd expect software, hardware, and electronic sales records to be operational. He simply said: "If you approve there, I will start to wonder if such a great deal of effort to maintain a business still makes sense. " Of course, he said it a little harder, but I kept the point. Dear colleagues, we are faced with a decision between the free market and the cop state, between the promotion of business and its slow destruction. My choice will be clear. I suggest we return the law to second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u98	Thank you, Ambassador, I'm registering your proposal. Now, please, next in line, and that is Mr Adamec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, the only member of the government, dear colleagues, let me begin by thanking you for sticking around, because when I look at the House series, I think it deserves an award. Of course, the debate has been going on for a long time, and some seem to find it tiresome to repeat the arguments, but I'll be back to that in a minute. Since we are at third reading to formally implement the Rules of Procedure, I also propose that we return this bill to second reading. Now I'm gonna talk about why I think it should be. We're making arguments from one side or the other, why not? I must say that the basic dimension of the bill is political. And it's very clear at this point, and we can convince ourselves here how we want those who want it for their own reason or for reasons I would say party obedience and maybe they are not entirely convinced of it, so, of course, they will vote in favour, those who do not want it, and I am one of them, of course, will vote against. We can say what we want here, but I certainly reject the argument that we who oppose are the ones who support I would say rascals, I will speak carefully, I do not have the habit of using dirty words, or here fell thieves, thieves. It's not like that. We just don't like it, and I personally do, that we control everyone, even the honest ones that are most, and that the dishonest ones fall into it at the same time. I think it should be reversed, that the first is to control the dishonest and the honest should let themselves be, should not be bullied by the state, should not have more costs than is needed. Of course, I think it has something to do with a philosophy that we all have completely different. But I reject the fact that the Civil Democratic Party supports cheaters. Please don't ever use that here again, it's not true. It's just another way of looking at the whole thing. About some of the things that fell here today. I am quite amused, though two years is economic growth, and of course the government is proud that it is her work, why not, in the end it is the government, but at the same time in one breath it says that for the 14,000 trades that have fallen, the opposition - at a time of economic growth - can really seem like a bold statement. I must say that all the governments and ours, if there was economic growth, were always proud that they were responsible. It's different, please. Every government, and it didn't matter if left-wing, right-wing, central, has always prevented economic growth, because economic growth is not primarily its work, but the work of businessmen and entrepreneurs. So let me get this straight. But of course it's growing now, now it looks different. Maybe I'll go back to what the Minister of Finance said about raising VAT. I was not here at the time, I was a member of the Grémia of the Civil Democratic Party, and I was then protesting the increase in value added tax - at a time of crisis - because it wanted to introduce a second pillar of pension reform. I can tell you that I've proven to myself the old rule that my colleague Urban here has already said, that it's really better to be wrong about the side than to be right about her. It cost me a year of my life, but that was my problem, I'm taught. And I'm saying this so that you know what's new, that it works that way. VAT - I think value added tax is a dynamic tax. When the state, the country thrives, the tax grows. I can say that 1% of GDP growth at this point is de facto 14 billion. In addition to the state budget. So I think, of course, it is not entirely correct to operate with the time of stagnation, regression, and the time of economic growth. Otherwise, by the way, the VAT collection was only for three years. Of course, that was no longer said in the media. In fact, this year you changed the Value Added Tax Act, where a check report came through, which I will be talking about in a moment, and there was a chance to put it back. Instead, a third rate was introduced. But it's politics. We can criticize it, we can say that we would have imagined otherwise, but most in the House have a different opinion about it. Of course, electronic sales records have aroused a lot of conflicting opinions among the public. Anyway, there's talk of her. I experienced such beautiful situations when the great hoteliers said: "This is terrible. He's got lunch down at the pub in the village for 65, and I'm not gonna do it under 300. This must change, we want a level playing field on the market." It's nice, but the hotel operator forgot to say that he got 60 percent of the subsidies from the European Union for the hotel. It just is. I remember when an unnamed exporter, chairman of the Exporters' Association, who owns a hotel in Mladé Buce, said this on TV and forgot to sign up for the fact that the hotel is mostly paid for by the European Union's money. That's just the way it was. Now they're being processed, among other things, by a check-up report. What happened? They're starting to criticize control reports that it's expensive, that it's complicated, that they're afraid of repression. By the way, yesterday I saw a very interesting piece on the Internet that processed the Financial Administration, a very nice shot, I really mean it, made PR very decently, but there was one thing that forgot to deliver that the fight against tax evasion would cost the owners of the companies quite high cost of securing accounting and these activities. Firms have raised prices, significantly. It's from practice, of course, from real life, so I have to say, unfortunately, it's true. Of course, I must also say that the restaurants that are VAT payers, of course, encouraged the 15% tax, which is why they were also in favour of it. I was interested, by the way. In Germany it's a little different, there's not a reduced rate from restaurants, but from accommodation, so there's a little different. Why don't we want it in this form? I think we need to revitalize concepts like the shadow economy. When you look at how it is with the shadow economy, you find that some of the visions that are falling here may not come true. When I look at the article that I discovered about the causes of the shadow economy and goes back to history, they say: The shadow economy is no new phenomenon. An example can be the emergence of a hidden market in ancient Egypt as a result of high perfume taxation. [[11.40 hours]] The smuggling spread in France in the 15th to 18th century after the introduction of a high salt tax. The consequences of alcohol prohibition by the United States government in the 1920s are the subject of many Hollywood films. And the emergence of mobs, of course. For the Čech, for those previously born, the known existence of the black market in the former communist Czechoslovakia is because you simply did not buy all the goods that were worth anything in the store. From these examples, even historical, it is very clear that there are two causes that affect the shadow economy, and that is the rate of taxation and the rate of regulation. What I have compared to the shadow economy within the European Union has also fallen, I will remind you that the Czech Republic is not so bad at all, but I can't say how technically the numbers really are, because it is very difficult to determine. But we belong to a better average in the European Union. And in the context of what I said, actually, if you're on shadow-- in our case, gray-- because the black one is someone else's object-- that's not part of this conversation. So if you look, how does the shadow economy behave to this extent? Well, the way she acts is, when you start pushing, when you start applying some kind of regulation again, the repression, the gray economy doesn't go down. He's gonna act exactly the other way around. Entrepreneurs are entering the gray zone because it's no longer worth doing it in the legal zone. And now maybe I'll run with the Minister, because I think the solution is to simplify the tax system and cut taxes. What he rightly criticizes is that the last government didn't do. I still have to say, I don't forget, in the 15 percent reported somewhere in Eurostat, it's still de facto in the grey zone of work. In the case of the Czech Republic, it is estimated that about a quarter of a million people are employed here black and it is due to the high cost of work. Please don't confuse how high paychecks are. And when I looked at some graphs, it really did. And quite possibly in the tax burden of labor in the low-income group we are actually somewhere in tenth place. It's an even environment. Straighten up the business environment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u100	Mr. Ambassador, your time is up at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u101	Thank you. I'll sign up one more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u102	Yes, thank you. Now please, with the de facto Minister Babiš. [[He doesn't want to go to the mic yet.]] So you're pulling out. With priority rights, Mr Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u103	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to make one request to my colleagues from ODS and TOP 09 as part of this law. I had a particular experience on Sunday afternoon when I went out for coffee with my son in Prostějov. When I got out of the car, a stranger came to me saying, "Hello, my name is so and so I wanted to ask you for one thing. I'm your sympathizer, and I don't like the fact that as an entrepreneur, you want to spy on us and collect dangerous data... I asked the person I saw for the first time in my life to tell me what it was all about. Because we're going ten meters to the coffee shop now, we're going to have two coffees and two Mattons with our son, and if the system was already in effect, the cash register will send one number to the financial office - the amount of the roughly 120 crowns, where nothing else is mentioned, only the total amount of 120 crowns for the expense that my son and I spent there. And the gentleman looks at me like that and says, "Yeah, but on TV, Mr. Fiala from ODS said something else that you're going to collect dangerous data on us entrepreneurs... I told him, "Well, this is reality. So please tell me what you see as a dangerous businessman on this one single data... And he says, "Well, they said it on TV." That's what they said on Czech TV. And that's what Mr. Fiala said. So I just wanted to ask my esteemed colleagues to stop scaring our citizens, our businessmen. I understand they're against this law, but just to tell the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u104	Thank you, and now please, with the de facto Minister Babiš. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u105	Thank you. Well, that's exactly it. TOP 09 and ODS are still saying it's not true. Because neither the EET nor the control report the Financial Administration will receive any indication of consumption, purchase or invoice. There's no invoice content in the inspection report either! There's a VAT number, invoice number, size of the transaction, date of the taxable transaction, total VAT, total sales. There's nothing on the invoice. And it's still on the receipt that we're gonna get electronically for the Financial Administration. So please stop lying. You're still scaring the businessmen, and it's not true. It's not true. There's no data, and that's why they can't be used. And you repeat a lie a hundred times, and then businessmen ask what it is. Well, it's not true. And Mr Adamec, I beg you through Madam President, the costs. If you were watching TV last night, the owner of Vítkovice Mr. Honek told you how much it cost. Well, it cost $6,400. And most companies have software system maintenance. And most companies did it to those companies - I'm talking about a check report - free of charge! It's free. Then why are you talking about costs again? They usually did it for free because they have it under the software maintenance contract. And if someone didn't negotiate it for free, it's a few thousand crowns, up to 5,000 crowns. And I think Vítkovice Tours are a pretty big company and it cost CZK 6,400. Then why are you saying what kind of costs? There was no cost. And it's not new data. [[Attention on time.]] These are the data that the Financial Administration can control today, but it just wants them in a different form. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u106	Thank you, and now please, with Mr Adamec in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u107	Thank you for the floor. I'll be very short. I don't think Mr. Secretary and I have an understanding. I don't care about the cost of introducing software. That's not what I'm talking about. I said they're making accounting companies more expensive, because they're obviously worried about the consequences of filling out the inspection report, the mistakes. They've increased by 30 to 50 percent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u108	Yes. With the de facto Minister Babiš. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u109	I'm sorry. I don't understand what you're talking about. What price? Someone gets to change the software - and they all have it - for CZK 6,400 and then prints the control report on the button! He pushes one keyboard and the computer prints it. That's all. So what's the cost? Why would anyone cost? Nobody's getting expensive. On the contrary, the companies will improve their cash flow, they won't wait for VAT returns withheld, because today the computer is guessing. There'll be fewer checks, because the Financial Administration and the 20 analysts who have the NBU's clearance and will be somewhere in that data center -- and they'll only have the information, so they'll just be analyzing. And if they find out that any invoice doesn't match the second invoice, they'll go to the company. So it's the same plus. Faster money, less control. [[11.50 hours]] And on that EET, please repeat, the point is that the businessman is just going to put a mark on the sales. That's all. He'll mark up the sales. That's it. And the citizen gets a receipt. And if he looks better, he'll see a code. That's it, the whole operation. Well, I don't know why you're still inventing some kind of misinformation. Nothing's gonna get expensive. It will be cheaper because we are reducing taxes, the VAT that you have raised!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u110	Thank you, and now please, with Mr Kučera's de facto Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u111	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna say, "No, we're gonna go cheap!" But I would only really set the record straight here some of the inaccuracies that have been said here, as is customary, by Minister Babiš. What the inspection report contains, what Minister Babiš said to us here, was far from complete. The fact that it contains information, of course, about the prices of purchases and sales, I mentioned that several times here, and I don't think it's entirely fair, such half-hearted information. I'm here to read the structure of the inspection report directly for Minister Babiš, and I hope it doesn't conflict. It's from his server, so hopefully they're not lying there either, at the Treasury Department. So the inspection report will have the following structure: realized transactions in the transferred tax liability regime, extract according to § 92, purchase of goods from JČS, acquisition of a service from JČS, third country purchase of a new means of transport, special regime for investment gold, completed in the Czech Republic with VAT on output above 10 thousand. CZK, realized transactions in the Czech Republic with VAT on output up to 10 thousand. Kč. Furthermore, it will be independent of the value of the transaction if the customer does not act as a payer, etc. To deduct the tax, it will be the transactions received under the transfer tax liability scheme, the classic deduction of transactions, and it will be the classic deduction of transactions from the row of simplified tax documents. Furthermore, there will be information that has already been partially mentioned here, i.e. the VAT number of the customer or supplier, the registration number of the tax document, the date of performance or the obligation to grant the tax, the tax base and the tax, broken down by VAT rates. For the implementation of the transferred tax liability scheme, the codes of each type of transactions will continue to be indicated. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Your time!]] I didn't finish the whole thing, but it's clear that the Minister didn't say what he was supposed to say about the inspection report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u112	I beg the de facto Minister of Finance. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Kučera through Madam President, it really is not worth it to you. This is a check report. It's even filled out. [[It shows the form.]] I had it filled out at Vomáčka s.r.o. It's a fictional company. And this is a VAT return. So please come to our training and we'll teach you. I would really like to live to see that our Financial Administration is supposed to be in Sweden. In fact, the financial administration fills out a tax return for citizens and then comes to them and asks: did we fill it out? And the citizen says, "Great! I'd like to live to see this one someday. So we've given various instructions here, and you can even fill out the control reports electronically directly in the Financial Administration database. Please, you're telling the truth again, and what I said is true. And if you want to have a factual discussion, let's discuss it, but don't tell the truth!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u114	Thank you and now please the duly signed Member of Freedom. Mrs Fischerová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u115	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking for the second time in that limited time of ten minutes, so I will bother you for a total of 20 minutes probably, or 19.5, but first I must reiterate that I will not vote for this proposal and that I will vote and propose that it be returned to the second reading. I will try to gather the reasons for this in some form so that Mr Komárek can tick off other topics. I'm not going to talk about a proud princess or her slipper, I'm going to talk about how that slipper will push some of our fellow citizens. We are still talking about 900, 970 thousand self-employed people to be touched by the law. But the first was actually my colleague Putnová, who opened up the topic of citizens to whom it touches, and these are doctors, operators of small pharmacies, special doctors, i.e. dentists, and the whole area of medical activity. I would very, very much ask that this sphere as a specific sphere actually be considered and considered what we want to do. Recently, this House has voted to cancel medical fees. We are against it, and I personally have endured a number of factors against it, why this is wrong. No one believed us, and it came to the conclusion that, after the introduction of this law, the Minister of Finance had to say that it was a mistake. Our offices have been refilled by waiting people who come without any reason, the costs of the practice have increased. And the fact that the Ministry of Health returns the amount of money to doctors in the form of a direct payment instead of a medical fee is not true because it depends on the numbers that were reported in the previous year and, of course, when the fees are not and the condition is unregulated, so the patients come without order and without a direct reason preventative far more and the costs of doctors simply increase and are not in any way covered. My colleague Putnová said that many doctors are unable to work with such things because they do not have the appropriate equipment. And it's true. We know from the time of the electronic recipes solution that about 20-25 percent of doctors have no electronic equipment at all and cannot write an electronic recipe and cannot write any control and other electronic reports. There are 20 percent of them in general, and there are significantly more in some areas of medical activity. It seems like the doctors are stupid and unable to work with simple tools, but we have to look at the other thing. In the field of practitioners at pre-retirement or retirement age, there are almost 60 percent of doctors. That's where the age limit is moved. The celorepubliko average is about 40 percent, here it's significantly shifted. And, of course, it's a group of people who have no interest in starting something new. It's not because they're stupid or incompetent, but the reason for investing in something else is very little strong for them. At present, practical doctors are in a situation that their activities and their work are overloaded. They have patients too many, because practical doctors are not enough. They have full offices, and more and more inspection reports must be filled out not only with practitioners, but with doctors of all kinds. The time is that you spend 10 minutes with the patient, and what you did, you document another 10 minutes, if not more, simply because the world is such that you constantly have to ensure that someone doesn't sue you, so that you have everything documented, and now you're going to show something straight. It is an incredible waste of time when I imagine that a general practitioner will have to exhibit something because the patient wished, for example, to use a disposable device for which he has to pay extra, and for those 10 or 15 crowns, he would lose more time by showing some revenue through a mechanism that he cannot and will have to learn, and the number of patients he will do will fall. It just drops. That's all you can do. If you have more administration, you do less medicine. And I am not talking at all about the possibility that a significant part of those doctors who serve will probably leave. [[12.00 hours]] At this point, we have holes in practical doctors all over the country. The Minister of Health, honor and praise for this, tries to change it by preparing some recruitment fees for someone who is uninteresting. But it won't work. By the time 20 percent of the practitioners retire, and the number is real, 20 percent of them are outnumbered, the entire primary care system will collapse. It cannot be replaced from day to day, it will take a number of years to move forward, and we should prevent such a situation and should not allow it. The same situation is then with outpatient specialists, dentists, small pharmacies. If these small establishments disappear, the care will be severely reduced, threatened, and the level of our medicine and the level of health of our population will change very substantially. The world's different. Everywhere and in every group of people, there are people who aren't completely honest. They say we have one percent. Please. I had some opportunity in my life to live and work in Italy. And there the world was very simple. When you treated a patient in private practice and he came out of that practice, could it have been that he was stopped by a person who showed up with an I.D. and said, "Did the doctor give you an account?" And when he didn't, there was so much trouble that the doctor might have even lost his practice. And just the possibility of this threat that existed there, in Italy, which is very resourceful in the area of falling into some financial responsibilities, those medical practices couldn't have imagined that they couldn't have exposed the patient's account. It didn't delay them, it was written by the admissions nurse, it was simple, it didn't require any investment, and it didn't require any principled mistrust of people that everyone was cheating. This is, of course, a thing that is seemingly simple and should work. It should work much better than this option we're planning right now, just because if it worked, it wouldn't threaten that primary care, but also dental care and small pharmacies will be threatened by the end of the facility. And I would very much not like to live to learn, after the introduction of electronic records of sales, inspection reports, and all that in three months, that the Minister of Finance will tell us again: It was a mistake. We shouldn't have done that in this area. Again, I remind you that human activity has many and many aspects, that it is necessary to consider them and that sometimes an idea that looks brilliant may not be genius at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u116	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I note one factual remark made by Mr Pilný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that I don't know if it's quicker to fill something for an insurance company or a medical report or a prescription by hand, not on a computer. That's the first thing. Second thing. Research that I don't know how old he is and that says 20 percent of doctors don't have any such technique is really old. Sooner or later, these people who don't have it, they're just gonna fill it out on that computer because it's faster. When I go to a doctor and he wants to give me a prescription, he clicks like that and he's out. He writes a medical report to his computer, clicks and he's out. He's doing the same thing with insurance data because it's just faster and he's got more time for patients. And electronic sales records won't affect this. These people will do it voluntarily, because it's just faster, and they'll have time to take care of their patients. What was said here before is just something when we really look in the rearview mirror, and that medicine just won't look like that, and I say that with full knowledge that I'm not a doctor. Let the doctors heal and simplify their administration in this way, but they're really doing it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u118	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Svoboda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u119	Thank you. Let me answer, by means of you, in general, what has been said here. Of course, I know what's faster, whether to write a prescription manually or on a computer. It's funny - it's faster by hand, yet I do it on my computer, for many other reasons. But it's much quicker to write that acylpyrin hand and sign. The difference is quite orderly when you have a lot of patients. But that's not what this is about. It's about the fact that we have a group of doctors who won't be able to do it, and they won't be willing to do it, and they'll leave. To replace them, we'll need at least five years, more like ten, just because it takes so long for the doctor to get qualifications before he gets there. And we're not used to people moving around in this country. Everyone gets in somewhere and then they die. We will come to the conclusion that we will have territories that will be tabloid race, uncovered, doctors will not be there. And that's not funny, it's not that there's a pub missing, it's not that there's a little shop missing that sells rolls or watery chicken. It's just that the patient doesn't have primary care available. And that's what I'm talking about. I know there's no train going in the back. I also hope that we will not have a horse in Prague, although the current mayor is trying very hard to get transport into this form. I know that time will go forward and that electronics will get on. But in this matter she gets wrong simply because it does not have the conditions in this separate special sphere of human activity. That group of people just got older, they're out, and we can't replace her from hour to hour. That's what I'm warning you about. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Yes, I understand time. I also hope that at that time I will not see the truth of what I say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u120	Thank you. Now a few factual points. Mr Soukup, President Stanjura, then Mrs Putnová, has the first. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u121	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I was at the Sokolovska Economic and Social Assistance Council on Monday. It's a bunch of them, an organ where small businessmen sit and assert their views. I was talking about a lot of things there, and I kept electronic sales records for the last time. I started with the words, "Gentlemen, I think I'm gonna get on my back." No, it didn't. I'll tell you that electronic sales log has support. There were people who were asking questions, but I did not notice it, as the right-wing opposition claims, that it would in principle not support this law. And now for a little logic test. We often hear here that electronic sales records will eliminate a number of businesses, that many entrepreneurs will have to quit. So logically that means exclamation point and question, which means that it is not possible to do business with us in the Czech Republic honestly, decently and firmly without cheating? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u122	Thank you, too. Now, therefore, President Stanjura, Mrs Putnová will be prepared with her factual comment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u123	Unlike my previous speaker, I respond to the speech of my colleagues in the debate. The chairman of the Economic Committee has spoken nicely. I'd almost sign it. He said, "They will choose." Well, if it was voluntary, I don't think we're arguing. But you don't give them any choice whether voluntarily or unwillingly. Then don't confuse them. If I am wrong, Mr President, through the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, then tell me how the doctor will do it, that he will voluntarily decide not to use the EET when you say that he will voluntarily do it, because it is more advantageous. And then I'd like to ask my colleagues - we can all say what we did on Monday in our parliamentary offices. These are excellent sociological surveys. I asked if I could get on my back, I didn't. But that's more of a smile. But that outrageous sentence, a really outrageous sentence, that whoever's against the EET is a crooked businessman, is a thief and steals from the state, that's what you're making up. Because you don't have to fail or shut down your business just because the state catches you and you can't cheat anymore, for example because the bureaucratic responsibilities are too much, you don't have large unions of law, you don't have large trade unions of economics. Go to a small company these days and ask how much they pay for the training of their accountants for the inspection report. Then take a look at the explanatory report on this bill and see how the cost of the private sphere, for example, was shot down for inspection reports. And it's the same with the electronic sales log. And it's this fairy tale where the magic grandpa comes in, hand out the tellers, and it'll do everything. We'll have cheap beer, maybe we'll pay whoever drinks the beer, we'll have everything we need because a good grandfather handed out the cashiers. So fairy tales are not on ČT24 if they broadcast us tonight or sometime tonight, but on the children's channel Czech Television. [[Your time, Mr President.]] That's where the fairy tales belong. Not here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u124	Thank you. So now, Mrs Putnová, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mr Fiedler with a point of fact. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u125	Good morning again. I chose the example with practical doctors because I wanted to point out at that moment how quality of life will change, especially in small villages and in villages that are far from large cities. That's the experience I picked up over the summer when I talked to my peers and my friends. If a children's doctor closes the office in a small village, a pub will be closed and a gardener or a mechanic ends up, we must say that quality of life will change in the village. We only talk about businessmen and talk about people who are obliged to report EETs. But let's also talk about how it will affect the environment and how it will affect the quality of life, especially in smaller municipalities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u126	Thank you. So now, Mr Fiedler and President Stanjura will be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u127	Thank you. I will also be short as my colleague Mrs Putnová. I would have responded to what Mr. Chairman of the Economic Committee, Mr. Pilný, said. I totally agree with that. There isn't anything I would argue that it's faster, that it's just for those of us who do computing, with electronic systems, it's more logical, easier, more comfortable, faster. I completely agree, without reservation. That's my experience. I have a father-in-law who runs around with his mail slips to pay the bill he gets. Forty times I've called him Dad, it's easier if I give you a computer at home, banking on a computer, you do it electronically. It'll be easier, faster, more comfortable, and thanks to the fact that it won't be at the classic bank that's spying on him on monthly fees, but it'll be electronically where they have it for free, you'll save almost a thousand a year. He didn't do it. That's all I'm gonna add.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u128	Thank you. Now, then, President Stanjura, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u129	When I look at the board, I will use factual remarks to apologize to my colleague Jana Fischerová, when the application will fail, but she will certainly sign up next time because she is fulfilling her duties in the Council of Europe in the delegation of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. So to make it very clear that it's not that he's not here. It cannot be present because it is in Strasbourg, where we sent it together. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u130	Thank you. I know about her apology. It's been loaded. I will therefore now ask another duly signed up for the debate and this is Mr Horáček and Mr Kučera will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u131	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I understand today what the Minister of Finance is trying to do. They're still telling us that electronic sales records will bring more money to the Treasury.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u132	I've been warned he's not a rapporteur. I'm going to find out where he is, and he's going to be asked to return to the O.R.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u133	And I'd rather you didn't subtract it from me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u134	Yes, please, you have room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u135	Several billions from small businessmen, on which we built the success of our economy in the memorable first Republic, he simply submitted for more money, burdened them with further administration and duties. More billions to the state register means more money for subsidies and even for another stork nest. I wonder if the Minister wants more money for the state register, so there's more money for subsidies, why he doesn't go where there's big money and whose budget income would really be noticeable. But it's obvious. Fish don't let go of the pond. It is hard enough for Minister Babiš to fulfill what he promised today when this would damage his own interests most. After all, he has managed to increase their prosperity and efficiency. When we once marveled at the commercial achievements of the then Minister of Transport Aleš Řebíček, we had no idea that somewhere in the background there was someone who was learning how politics connects with business, and that one day, actually, it was quite soon, it would show us how it was done in a big way. I have been thinking for a long time in preparing this speech about how to sum up in short what electronic sales records represent today. How to characterize it, actually. It turns out that the most prestigious definition is that it is an unprepared, discriminatory, dysfunctional system created only to divert attention from the fact that the real money lies with the Czech Treasury somewhere else, but it does not want to be pointed out because one of those places is the private treasury of the Minister. It's called "dog wringing" and it looks like Minister Babiš here is wagging not just a dog, but a whole herd of dogs, hoping that's why people will stop paying attention to everything else. As opposition to the senseless ideas of the current coalition, I don't think we have a chance to reverse it. And if this is all right with coalition partners, it must be admitted that today we are discussing something that the voting machine will sort of approve simply because the coalition partner has mentioned it and the coalition itself is not prepared for any internal discussion, let alone any dispute. A citizen will simply have to accept that, in order to maintain the coalition, there is also a need for victims, even if they are citizens themselves. However, or perhaps that is why I believe that our role here is absolutely essential and necessary. What we are about to do is not likely to affect, but we have a clear obligation to warn and warn about it. Perhaps many people will not understand this today, perhaps for many people electronic sales records are not a fundamental issue or even a topic to think about. But this is not about one specific legal standard, however stupid and unnecessaryly harassing it is. This is about the whole system that we are defending and acting against here and against which every reasonable citizen of this Republic should act and defend, regardless of whether he is a minister, an MP or a businessman. [[12.20 hours]] The electronic record of sales is seen by many entrepreneurs as just another duty that will bring more administration and other costs. The introduction of electronic sales records is supposed to be a revolutionary step, and the Minister of Finance, according to his words, will enter history. But I think that if he manages to push through, then he will actually make history, but significantly different from what he would have wanted. That Minister Babiš does not want to hear the voices of more than 600,000 tradesmen who will be subject to new obligations is sad. But it shows a lot. There have been and will always be politicians who, although elected by a majority, do their best for rich minorities. It doesn't surprise me that Minister Babiš won't listen to the words of the experts. In addition to the very intention that needs to be rejected again and condemned again, I would like to remind you of some other arguments which, my fellow Members, should warn you about raising your hand for this proposal. It is a technological solution and a timetable for the whole process. Already in the middle of March of this year, the journalist of Lupa.cz, Jiří Peterka, summed up very well why the whole process cannot be handled well. We are six months ahead of time, but not in the preparation of technology and the whole system. Now, then, it can hardly be done for sure. For example, what does Mr Peterka refer to in the article? Electronic sales log is another big thing in the field of electronization. Its intention and impact may be much larger than data boxes or basic registers. It is similar with their enforcement. Everything is always behind a strong resort with strong leadership, which looks primarily at its interests and promotes them to a large extent in power or force. And even further, Peterka presents. The truth is that it is such a complex and complex matter that it is practically impossible to conceive and treat all aspects and especially all possible details and contexts, even with the greatest spells with Croatian pattern and experience there. Moreover, under time pressure, which is already proving to be literally extreme. As a result, relatively significant critical points, which, if not addressed in time, can send the whole ambitious project down very quickly. Yes, those words are six months old, but they should be a real warning to us. If we accept today's proposal in its already imperfect form with the risk of further problems in its implementation, which must be described not as likely, but almost certain, then we should just agree on the form of an apology to the citizens of our country as a schlendrian who we have committed and who will continue to poison their lives. Colleagues, will you take on your own conscience the fact that, despite all these warnings, you will vote for him? Are you ready, each and every one, to take personal responsibility for his enforcement? If so, however reckless it is, you have my admiration, because in advance, you willingly and unnecessarily expose future criticism and ridicule for something that is useless and in my opinion wrong. Perhaps you should know, for example, that even lawyers have recommended rejecting this legislation. According to Petr Mrkývka, who produced a news report on the bill, he recommended that the Government's Legislative Council reject the bill on the record of sales. The proposed there is basically a general online obligation on all entrepreneurs. From the law and from the explanatory report, it is not clear with what intensity the tax administrator will process data obtained from the information system, whether it is able to process it effectively in order to fulfil the declared purpose of the modification, writes in his document, which is available on the Watchdog Mrkývka, Mr. More information about this was provided by the server Czech Links, which has at its disposal information from sources close to the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic. The Czech context was obtained from sources close to the Office of the Government by the full opinions of the two rapporteurs of the Legislative Council of the Government who assessed the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u136	I'm sorry, your time is up, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u137	Thank you, I will rejoin because you must be interested in the Czech context.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u138	Thank you. I now note the factual remark made by the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u139	Thank you, Mr President. That was, like, the worst speech I've ever heard in here. This is unbelievable. Big fish, comrade Horace, that's a big fish, that's a carousel. Yesterday, they said Mr. Zadeh, bailed out 150 million. You've read it, haven't you? . [[It shows the sheets of paper towards the benches of the right-wing Members.]] Ekoinvest, they robbed us of 4.5 billion. Carousel, that's him. Then watch the video. The tax administration has the video, there's a nice character. So we're up against the big fish. Cobra we have, reverse charge and control reports. So please, if you're getting off, at least learn it. And all your nonsense about what my business and stomping nests do, so I'll read it to you again, and I'll get you a chart next time. Overall, my companies have taken 35.54 billion into the European Union's budget. In the last nine years, they've got a 6.19. In Bohemia, they've taken 19.663 billion in the last nine years. and got 1.9. That means a tenth! A tenth. And if the ODS claims that social security contributions aren't for pensions, and health insurance isn't for doctors and nurses' salaries, please study it, because here we have foreign investors who are getting a 10-year tax holiday, I'm talking about corporate tax, and the only income we have is the contributions. So if you're saying it doesn't belong there, I'm telling you, it belongs there! And my companies took ten times more into the Czech budget than they got. So stop lying, send an auditor to check it out. And that's true. And stop messing with my firm all the time. Don't you have another program? [[Attention on time.]] Here are the carousels, the inspection reports. [[It's time warning again.]] I recommend a video of Financial Administration. Great video.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u140	Once again, I urge both sides to stick to the topic discussed, which is the electronic record of sales. Unfortunately, constantly running in a different direction does not contribute to the quality of the discussion. I'm recording a factual point, three factual points. Mr Faltýnek, President Stanjura, and others. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u141	Good afternoon, colleagues. Allow me to speak with a certain procedural proposal. [[A note from the right side of the diaper.]] What time?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u142	I have written down the order of factual remarks, Mr President. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u143	I'm sorry. So, once again, have a nice afternoon. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to speak with a certain procedural proposal and return the debate actually back to the subject that we are discussing here. We're discussing today, if I count correctly, 38 hours in the first, second and third readings of this law. And I believe that all arguments, whether against or for this debate, or most of them, have been made, although they are still repeated by the petitioners of the same arguments and by opposers the same. I think that 38 hours of debate is enough time to discuss all these mutual views. Therefore, allow me to propose that, in a procedural without debate, we vote that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic will be about the Government's bill on the record of sales, the House's press 513, the third reading, and the Government's bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the record of sales, the House's press 514, the third reading, and the amendments tabled to these prints vote on Wednesday, 10 February 2016 at 11 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u144	Thank you. As this is a procedural proposal, I will put it to a vote without debate. I'll call my coworkers from the lobby. [[Sudden noise in the hall. Screams from the right.]] The procedural proposals shall be put to the vote without debate. I'll check you all out. Yes. I'll sign you all up. [[Chairman Stanjura: I have a counterproposal.]] The procedural proposal may be counter-proposal. In that case, Mr President, come make a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u145	My counterproposal is quite simple. I object. This was not a procedural proposal. That wasn't a procedural proposal. [[Emphasis.]] Moreover, if you take the Rules of Procedure of Section 63, what a Member may propose in the debate, it is a motion for a adjournment, a motion for a refusal, a proposal to refer to another body of the House, a proposal for another draft, a proposal for an amendment, an additional proposal, conditional, a proposal to delete part of the proposal. This was not a procedural proposal. I ask you, Mr Vice-President, not to vote on him. Otherwise, we will be entitled to object to a violation of the law. And then I want to say that you're about to break the law on February 10th, as the microphone said. You're about to break the law after a careful plan and in an organized group.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u146	The point is that at this point, the procedural proposal is read. And the only thing here is that there is a proposal for a different counter-proposal procedural. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u147	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, it may have been made clear that this is not a procedural proposal, so you cannot leave something to be voted on, a procedural proposal that is not a procedural proposal. I want to say one thing about your plan, people are being arrested here for breaking the law. You're about to break the Constitution. What about you?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u148	Thank you. To clarify, I will quote and vote. A procedural proposal relating to the way in which a item of the programme is discussed shall also be regarded as a factual remark. This means, I ask whether anyone has another procedural proposal for us to vote on that point at another date or another procedural proposal. The debate is not open. [[Chairman Stanjura is reporting in front of the speaker's desk.]] Do I understand, Mr President, that you are coming up with a procedural proposal? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u149	My procedural proposal is in accordance with the law that we should vote after the proper end of the debate at third reading. And now, personally, Mr Vice-President, I have no means of mediation, I call on you not to allow you personally to vote on an illegal proposal as a governing meeting. [[Emphasis.]] Because to say that someone comes forward with an illegal proposal, he himself calls it procedural, and you're willing to let him vote on it knowing that it's an illegal proposal, and it's not a procedural proposal, so you personally take responsibility for this procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u150	I assume you're also coming up with a procedural proposal. [[Chairman Kalousek is reporting in front of the speaker's desk.]] Because if this is not the case, I will vote on the procedural proposal and then we will continue the debate. [[Chairman Kalousek off the microphone: I come up with a procedural proposal.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u151	Mr Vice-President, I am opposed to your wording when you asked if anyone else has a procedural proposal, because what Mr Faltýnek here has put forward, no matter how much we bend the Rules of Procedure, was simply not a procedural proposal. So just the wording of another procedural proposal was out of the law, because there was no procedural Mr. Faltýnek presented here. Since you are obviously not orienting yourself in this, I am putting the procedural motion to vote on the President's appeal, who would know what the Rules of Procedure are or is not a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u152	Mr President, I think we may disagree. I believe that I am proceeding in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This means that we will first vote on your procedural proposal and that is the proposal for my appeal to the meeting's proceedings, and then we will continue as it was loaded. I'll call my coworkers from the lobby. I'm registering the check-out request. I'll check you out. I'm gonna ask you to sign up with your cards. The number of Members has settled. [[Noise in the hall.]] I therefore initiate the vote and ask who is in favour of President Kalousek's procedural motion for my appeal from the meeting's proceedings to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has order number 23, 129 Members and Members signed in, for proposal 35, against 81. This proposal was rejected. Given that no further procedural proposal has been made, and I say that under the Rules of Procedure, we will vote in accordance with the way it was read by President Faltýnek. [[Chairman Stanjura reporting. Mr. Horseman shouts, "He's gone! Stanjur's!]] Please, if you want to clarify this amendment, that is a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u153	I would like to raise an objection to the President's procedure, because as you are running the meeting, it is really not possible. So I object to your progress.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u154	Okay. It's a procedural proposal. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this objection, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 24, with 130 Members registered, for proposal 35, against 82. The motion was denied. Since the procedural proposal has been loaded, I will put it to a vote without debate. [[This is Chairman Kalousek.]] Only assuming you have a counterclaim against a procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u155	I do. Sound recording and history. I have a protest, Mr President, because you are voting on a procedural proposal. What Mr Faltýnek has said here is not a procedural proposal on the basis and within the limits of the law. It's exactly the same as if he made a proposal: Let's all go for a beer! I will not reduce the level of the Chamber of Deputies by presenting an equally relevant parliamentary proposal. But for history, for record and for administrative examination - Mr President, you support illegal conduct. Keep driving, because most people sometimes can act illegally, but they end badly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u156	I am convinced that I am acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And at this point, given that there was no counterproposal against the procedural proposal... [[Gesticulation in the hall.]] There is only one proposal for the proper termination of the debate at third reading, President Stanjura. So I noted your procedural, virtually. a counterclaim against this procedural proposal. [[This is Chairman Laudat.]] I would like to ask President Laudát whether he too has a counterclaim against this procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u157	I put forward a counter-proposal to vote on Mr President's knowingly violating this country's law. And I just want to say, if you vote on Mr Faltýnek's proposal, the TOP 09 will be shut down in protest because we consider this to be a top-notch violation of the Constitution of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u158	To vote that I am in breach of the Rules of Procedure is not a procedural proposal. That can't be voted on. At this point, I will vote on President Stanjura's proposal. [[This is Chairman Kalousek.]] Please. Again, it's a procedural proposal. No debate. Only counterproposals against procedural proposals may be put forward. You didn't do that last time, Mr. Chairman. I hope you'll do better.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u159	On behalf of TOP 09, I would like to request a three-minute recess for a club meeting before the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u160	The procedure shall be put to the vote without debate and immediately. After we vote on the procedural proposal, you will be given a break, Mr President. So I will read the first procedural proposal as presented by President Stanjura. He proposes that, if you correct me, if I say it wrong, President Stanjura proposes to put the procedural proposal to vote that the third reading debate will be closed only after all the entries for the debate have been exhausted. So I'm going to ask you to specify this, because I was unable to note the exact citation in the summary of factual remarks. So I'm gonna ask you to read your proposal, and I'm gonna put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u161	Mr Vice-President, you have people to record if not personally. I said that I propose that this law be voted on in the third reading only after the proper end of the debate. Nothing else. I'm repeating it twice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u162	Okay. Thank you. I therefore initiate the vote and ask who is in favour of this proposal, as President Stanjuru has put it, to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 25. Written by 128 Members, for proposal 41, against 27. This proposal was rejected. In that case, we will vote on the procedural proposal as it was made by President Faltýnek. I'm registering a request for your check-out. I'll sign you all out. I'm gonna ask you to log back into the system. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, as read by President Faltýnek, to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 26. Signed in by Members of Parliament 94, in favour of proposal 81, against 8. I am of the opinion that the procedural proposal has been approved. And I ask if the request for your three-minute break lasts. [[to Mr Kalousek]] The President Kalousek shall report with priority rights. For the record, only the club chairman can announce the break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u163	I don't insist on that break either, because I had no claim on her. However, I apologise now to all the other Members of the Chamber of Deputies who are clear. As former President of the KDU-ČSL, I would like to address my former colleagues. KDU-ČSL colleagues, when this process is found shameless, illegal, and with democracy incompatible, and when you claim that you are not responsible for this, because you were just defending the worst, and that the Minister of Finance is responsible for something that you didn't really want, and you were just defending the worst, so I'm sorry, don't say it. I'll be the first to tell you it's your hypocrisy. That this government can only rape the law that way because you supported... [[Member of the Faltynek calling from the place: Church restitution!]] When the Faltýnek stops yelling, I'll continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u164	I urge you all to be disciplined, and I ask you not to shout at each other, because if you don't change your behavior, I will be forced to interrupt the meeting!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u165	That this government was created only because you KDU-ČSL colleagues agreed that there could be a person in its ranks without a valid illustration certificate. That this government was created only because we were able to pass the law on state...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u166	Minister, I ask you to be disciplined to hide the materials and not provoke them in the hall, as you have already been pointed out today! Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u167	That this government was created only because you KDU-ČSL colleagues, including the former director of the USTR, supported by your vote so that the Minister of the Government would not have to have a clean illustration certificate. In other words, so that the government minister could be an aesthetic. That you KDU-ČSL colleagues agreed to violate the budgetary rules. And that you, KDU-ČSL colleagues, have now supported along with the coalition of the rape of the Rules of Procedure, which was proposed by Mr Faltýnek under the word procedural motion, even though it was not a procedural proposal. In the 25 years I've been a member of you, I remember one of the few things you insisted on is the rule of law. That means the rules apply. After you joined this coalition, you rape one rule after another and despise the rule of law. When you say - and you say it! - that it wasn't your fault that it was the Minister of Finance's responsibility and you couldn't do anything within the coalition, so I'll remind you today and I'll tell you: you could have done it! You just admitted immorality for your own troughs! . [[Let's hear it for the TOP 09.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u168	For the record, I will repeat that I have acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please, Minister, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u169	Thank you. Thank you, Mr President, dear colleagues. Through Mr President to President TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek: Thank God you are already a former member of KDU-ČSL and former President! And I think I need to make it clear that you're trying some historic reminiscence and you're trying to appeal to us here. Because your many activities in the days when you were in the ranks of KDU-ČSL, we have had negative consequences to date, and we are certainly not proud of these decisions of yours in the past. Yes, every government has its positives and negatives. And when I look at the participation in the governments where you were, the last government where you were involved, ODS, TOP 09 and Public Affairs, let every citizen of this country take a picture of how beneficial this government has been. How beneficial your work in politics has been. Under which state budget deficit Miroslav Kalousek, as a Member, is signed as Chairman of the Budget Committee and as Minister of Finance. That's the Tradition-Responsibility-Prosperity in your submission. So first look at your history, and then have the ambition here to preach and appeal to KDU-ČSL! And say something in the name of former KDU-ČSL chairman. Thank God he's ex-boyfriend! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u170	You have the floor, Mr. Chairman. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u171	Thank you for the floor. The applause of the left-wing spectrum is the sweetest reward for me. [[Let's hear it for the TOP 09.]] However, I guess we didn't get along. I didn't blame you for the past. I've been pointing out the future I don't doubt. Because sooner or later, because it's in your genes, you're gonna say you weren't responsible. That it was a coalition deal. That you actually meant well and defended the worst. That's what normalists and collaborators said in 1969 and 1970. And you're gonna say that again sooner or later! And I just want to tell you in advance that when you say it, we're gonna remind you of today and last days with biofuels, with illustration laws, of all your business with Agrofert, and we're gonna tell you, no, you had a different choice. You just turned her down for your own bed. Now don't make excuses!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u172	A point of fact is made by Mr Plzák. I'm going to ask you, colleagues and colleagues, to be quiet, to understand what is being lectured!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u173	Thank you, I'll be very short. I like the very principle of Kalousek's position on justice and justice, but it bothers me a little that he was a member of the People's Party at the time of the socialist establishment when it was a solid part of the National Front. They were elected to the National Assembly, and they were basically doing such a step up to the socialist establishment. So in that case, I have doubts about the sincerity of these words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u174	Now with priority rights, Minister Marian Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u175	I would also like to put the debate back a little bit more into substance right now. Yes, certainly, this whole law procedure will undoubtedly challenge the opposition to the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court will decide whether or not the trials were in order. And here I think there's one strong argument, virtually. Two. I have spoken to people who have been authors of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The establishment of these Rules of Procedure did not primarily count on having a general discussion on the specific material in the third reading. To this was always determined the space in the first and then in the second reading when loading amendments. So the creators really didn't count on it. In the process, and if you look at the evolution of the House of Deputies' negotiations, let's say, this institute has become abused and we have reached this stage, which we are now experiencing here at third reading. The second moment is, and I think it will be interesting to watch, if I even pull out the shadows of colleagues here, whom I appreciate many, from the opposition, so whether their contributions that they were reading here really were relevant to the subject and to the discussion of this law, because a lot of the contributions that I have heard here had nothing to do with the content of this law at all. But that will be judged by some others and not by us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u176	Thank you. I'm registering factual remarks, priority rights. In that case, two, there is normally a debate going on. So a point of order, Mr President. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u177	Only a little below dignity, but still a mild reaction to Dr. Plzák. Yes. I have been a member of the People's Party since 1984, as well as 20,000 of its members living today, whose brand and efforts today's establishment sells. Like about 20,000 members who, as ordinary members of the People's Party before November 1989, were much worse off than non-Parties, and I can prove it with my CV. If, despite having this past, you doubt my honesty, I would like to say to you that I have never been forced by my mom to enter the KSČ, that I have never been registered in volumes under the code name Bureš, that I never belonged under the communist elite, and I don't understand the difference in that belief in your honesty when you trust your chairman so much and you don't trust me. Good day, Doctor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u178	So now other factual points. Mr Benda, President Laudát, Mrs Chalánková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u179	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to respond to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Jurečka, because I am also one of the memoirs of these Rules of Procedure. Yes, it is true that it was not expected that there would be a debate at third reading. But practice has changed that, and the debate has been going on since 1997. Since 1997, a debate has been held regularly at third reading. Two days ago, we had a college law here, the first eight performers were representatives of a government coalition who, at third reading, each had a 20- to 25-minute speech to the university law. And the proposal put forward here by colleague Stanjura, for which you, 85 or how many of you, were voted against, was a proposal that said: let us respect the Rules of Procedure, which clearly states at the end of the third reading - the House first votes on proposals for rejection and then on amendments and then whether it agrees with the proposal. 85 people in this Chamber are voting against us complying with the Rules of Procedure Act. I'm asking if it's worth it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u180	Thank you. Before I give another word, I'll read the note. From 13.20 until the end of the day for personal reasons, Mr Karel Fiedler apologises and from today's meeting from 11.15 to 12.15 for health reasons, Mr Vít Kaňkovský apologizes. Now, therefore, President Laudát's factual remark, Mrs Chalánková will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u181	Thank you. I'm just technically or briefly talking to my colleague Plzák. After all, even as an outside observer, even though I wasn't in the People's Party, it's one thing to do a staffing of a regime when there are hundreds of thousands of Soviet occupations, when there are tens of thousands of whistleblowers from their own nation or from the neighbouring nation with which we were in the Federation, and there's a big difference between you and that. And you say, or did you say, through Mr President, that they were doing a staffing. Just so you happen to make these decisions, and KDU-ČSL in particular do not staphage something comparable to bad or far worse. But today is a fundamental difference, no one is at risk today, his children are not at risk for their careers, their futures, their educational options, their lives are not at risk, we still have a democratic regime. That's the big difference. And you like to do it and volunteer, so there's a big difference.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u182	Thank you. Now, therefore, with Mrs Chalánková's factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u183	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me respond to the words of Minister Jurečka. Dear Minister, my former fellow party, allow me to turn against the words you have responded here to the speech of Minister Kalousek and this is how you have addressed him. It is clear to all that the state budget always responds with some delay to legislative steps and the costs of the various laws that have been adopted before. At the time, in the years when I was a member of KDU-ČSL and worked as Deputy Governor of Olomouc Region, KDU-ČSL also became part of the government of Jiří Paroubek. At that time, there was a phenomenon that probably wasn't supposed to happen. KDU-ČSL was supposed to step out of this government. That was a mistake. At that time, spending on various benefits was increased, which are certainly godly, but the debt of the state grew at an astronomical rate. At that time, we learned that KDU-ČSL is not going in the right direction and that it is necessary to manage it responsibly. The 2006 KDU-ČSL programme was implemented only in the government of TOP 09, ODS and Public Affairs. For TOP 09, we were there for budgetary responsibility, which brought considerable political sacrifices. It was not at all easy for me, but the National Reform Programme at a time of not very advantageous and appropriate enforcement. I would very much object, Minister, to the fact that if the Minister signs the budget, it is an up-to-date picture of the situation at the moment. It's always a reflection with a delay. And at that time, it was possible to push through such proposals that could allow the service of state debt and state debt to slow down. For me, I have currently initiated a proposal that has already been introduced here. [[The President draws attention to the time]] I will conclude with the last sentence: And this is - given that the pension reform, which was a reform step, has been abolished, so I have proposed that VAT be reduced to a level that is flat before the introduction of this pension reform. [[The President again draws attention to the time]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u184	There. Since I'm not registering any... There is one point in fact, Mr Koskuba. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u185	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, time is running out, and I cannot respond, unfortunately, to the performance of a coalition partner, Mr Plzák. I think we have a problem here, which is perhaps a regular one, we will see how it decides, a political struggle. Obviously, we can blame each other for what happened after the victory of November, but I would very much hate for us to go beyond that line and accuse someone of what they were doing. I'm just saying, I lived at the time, I know how people lived, both people from the Czechoslovak Socialist Party and from the people's side, and from the Communists, but also from the non-Parties, and I think it's best to distinguish who's been acting from the close surroundings of the person. I'm just pointing out that around 99 percent of people, including non-patriots, were voting at the time, and I'll admit that I was in the election as well. Please, let's stop cursing in this awkward way. Let's go back and talk about what's our problem and see what happens. This is supposed to be a dignified parliamentary debate about the law, which is simply a law of law for this House right now, but let us stop the personal attacks. It's supposed to be a dignified institution. And there are parliaments where colleagues call themselves the term 'honorable'. I'd like that to be true in the Little Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u186	Thank you for keeping time. We will therefore continue the proper debate now. Mr Kučera is duly registered and Mr Skalický will be prepared after that. [[Restlessness in the room.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I will try to return the discussion to a more material level after a hectic half-hour or hour that President Faltýnek has given his speech here. At this point, I'm not going to talk about the exams that are running on the stork's nest or those investigations on the Agrotec of Minister Babiš. I'm really gonna hold off on that, and I'm not gonna discuss that here. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already touched on discussions on the introduction of electronic...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u188	I understand, Mr. Ambassador. I'm repeatedly asking for peace. If you have a need to resolve any problems and discuss them, I ask you to go to the lobby because there is no hearing of what Mr Kučera is giving. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u189	I'd take the liberty of dividing my contribution into two parts. Unfortunately, in my first performance, which I believe was last week, I was limited by ten minutes, and I was not allowed to say anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u190	Colleagues on the left, I'm asking you to keep your voice down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u191	To say everything I wanted to say here on the topic of project safety, because we had a rather interesting subcommittee on this account, which concerned security and security data. In the second part of my speech, I will also try to familiarize you with the information that was said there and fill in the information I submitted here last week. This morning I was talking about what it looks like in Slovenia. I said that Finance Minister Mramor resigned, then Minister Babiš, Dušan Mramor, joined me with the Minister of Finance Babiš, stating that it is not true that he is still in office. It's true he's in office, he resigned, but the Prime Minister didn't accept his resignation. I also spoke here about the dramatic decline in some professions in Slovenia. I was talking about hairdressers, their numbers dropped dramatically, reporting a thousand less trades in order. It is obvious that some fields of electronic sales records are affected more, some are affected less. My previous speakers mentioned a physician here. I think there's been a discussion here, too, that the GP will be obliged to issue electronic receipts, too, because we know for sure who all the electronic receipts are... electronic sales records cover. [[short silence for noise in the hall]] This means for those who accept cash, but also food stamps or bank cards. Even those practitioners somewhere in the mountain villages will have to work on this principle. I would like to say that the experimental laboratory that Minister Babiš is trying to introduce here is trying to improve some rather unique ideas, and this is a tax reduction on some selected commodities. Minister Babiš has already convinced us here that he is not very firm in the kramflecs regarding the administration of the Ministry of Finance. And, of course, the idea that I think it's gonna make some beer cheaper, I don't know how many degrees, doesn't even fit the Council directive. And he probably doesn't know that. I'd just like to read the directive here. At the time, MEPs applauded him for the people's side, so maybe Members on the people's side could listen to it too. Council Directive 2006/112/EC: List of supplies of goods and services which may be subject to the reduced rate referred to in Article 98. One. Foods including beverages, but excluding alcoholic beverages, for human and animal consumption, live animals, seeds, plant ingredients normally intended, etc. - That means the beer meets the parameter that it's for human consumption, but there's an exception, I guess we all put beer among alcoholic beverages. The idea of Minister Babiš to put a lower rate on beer is nice, but of course we all know that he doesn't have any support in the law, so we can boldly include him among the ideas of populist, incompetent and ideas that only the public should take on their populism. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] I want to say that in the meantime, I received several e-mails, where various professional organizations asked us to enforce a lower rate on their products, so, by my speech, Minister Babiš, of course, caused a number of demands that products and other fields should be included in the lower rate. I'd like to mention here, with permission, that the TOP 09 is going the other way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u192	Once again, colleagues and colleagues, I call on you, in both parts of the hall, to keep you quiet. The time is ten minutes, by your interference, you are taking the Members' opportunity to comment on the subject.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u193	I would like to make the TOP 09 proposal here, which has already been made. I really want him to be underlined in this regard. Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš proposes a reduction in VAT on draft beer. The logical effort of every finance minister in the countries of the European Union is to adjust VAT rates so as to allow for as little tax evasion and as simple accounting as possible. On the contrary, populists of the Andrej Babiš type like to introduce seemingly pleasing exceptions that have no economic or consumer significance, but increase the risk of tax evasion and complicate accounting. TOP 09 proposes logical system measures that should automatically accompany the abolition of pension reform. The TOP 09 government, in an effort to ensure decent pensions for future generations, has enforced pension reform, partly financed by higher consumption tax, i.e. higher VAT. The current government has abolished our pension reform without proposing any alternative. But she has kept the money from higher VAT, even though she is criticizing this increase loudly today. Instead of an exception for beer, it is therefore systemic and logical to return VAT rates to the period prior to the approval of pension reform, i.e. to two VAT rates of 10 % and 20 %. Members of the TOP 09 shall present this proposal at the earliest opportunity, as Mr Kalousek has already said. [[13.10 hours]] I believe that Minister Babiš will support the TOP 09 parliamentary proposal to reduce taxes to 10 and 20 per cent, not going the way of the populist exceptions, although I understand that they are much closer to him, because it is beautiful when we can promise some professional group - of course I know that not on the basis of any advantages, but to promise them a reduced VAT rate there, there is some subsidy. I believe that we will not only find support for tax reductions with Minister Babiš. I believe that Members of the People's Party, members of the KDU-ČSL, will also vote for it because tax reductions, I dare say, are also their programme, so 20 and 10 percent of VAT will certainly find support for KDU-ČSL. So there's a good chance of that proposal. The House has passed so that we can finally pay lower taxes and not follow the populist exceptions offered by Minister Andrej Babiš. Ladies and gentlemen, in the second part of my speech, I would like to add information on the security of the electronic sales log system, which is critical. I've already talked about this here in the last part. We had a rather extensive discussion on the subject. [[Attention on time.]] So unfortunately, I can't finish my performance, even if it's quite essential information. I believe you'll at least read them on the web somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u194	Thank you, too. For the record, today's item we are discussing is not a reduction in alcohol VAT, but an electronic record of sales. And now we will continue the debate. In fact, Mr. Finance Minister Andrej Babiš is reporting. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u195	Thank you, Mr President. Well, Mr. Mr. Kučera, you're back on track. As you apologized to me for Mramor, so -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u196	I'm going to ask you - through me, Mr. Kučera has come running.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u197	Yes, by your means, Mr President. So VAT reduction on beer, VAT Directive 2006/112/EC. With regard to the application of value added tax, the possibility of application of reduced tax rates is limited after accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union due to high harmonisation of the rules. The reduction in the VAT rate is authorised by Member States only in cases expressly provided for in the VAT Directive. In accordance with Annex III to the Directive, the list of supplies of goods and services which may be subject to the reduced rate referred to in Article 3 (1) (a) of the Directive is replaced by the following: 98 of the directive, it is possible -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u198	I'm sorry, but I warned at the beginning that we weren't really dealing with VAT.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u199	But that's an EET, Mr. Chairman. It's EET. We're doing it for businessmen, so it's connected. ... may apply a reduced rate of tax to item 12a) of restaurant and catering services, while it is possible to exclude the supply of alcoholic or non-alcoholic beverages. However, this is up to the choice of each Member State. Serving, serving beer from containers with a content exceeding 10 litres of CN 22030010 within the restaurant service is therefore in accordance with the Directive. In addition, a similar adjustment applies e.g. Romania, specifically for serving beer and wine, has an adjustment even for Croatia. In this definition of service, we see compliance with the directive. Note - be careful not to confuse the supply of beer as an alcoholic beverage as a commodity serving beer in a restaurant as a service. For the supply of beer as goods in wholesale - retail trade, a reduced rate cannot be applied. The directive expressly prohibits it. But at the restaurant service where the beer is served, that's possible. So we're not as stupid as you think, more than you think, or whatever you think, so we've been dealing with it. And also some colleagues' comments on excise duty, please. Consumer tax, if we were to propose to change the excise tax on beer, it would be in favour of breweries. [[Attention on time.]] And we propose a reduction in VAT for businessmen! Opposites, for businessmen. We're doing something for them. [[Attention on time.]] Yeah? Let me get this straight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u200	Now, two factual points. Mr Kučera, Mr Mackovík, has the first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u201	Well, thank you for your answer. I think Minister Babiš just confirmed that he really wants to go the way of these populist exceptions aimed at individual groups. I'm sure he'll be right about that. Of course, I was talking here about the Council Directive 2006/112/EC. It is obvious that Minister Babiš is there trying to find some exceptions. Of course, it is possible to apply the exception for some of the plants. I want to say one thing - it's the way to hell, it's the way to destruction. These are exceptions to populist, non-systemic. And I'm calling for a clear comprehensive measure, and I've outlined that here, i.e. reduction of the VAT rate to two rates. Not on three, as you set up, Minister Babiš, when you just confused the tax system, you made it chaos with three VAT rates. In addition, the third VAT rate is completely out of order, and there has been no reduction of drugs, as you promised. You just messed up the tax system. That means I'm calling for a system solution here, that is. after 20% VAT, 10 VAT, only at two rates. That's the way to go. And I believe you'll support her.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u202	Thank you. More factual points? Mr. Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u203	Thank you for the floor. Well, I'm sure it's the right way. I mean, we want to go 20 percent and 10 percent. So explain to me why three governments, ODS and your Kalousek once for KDU and the second time for TOP, you increased VAT from 5 to 15 percent? You always say something and then you do something completely different. So what we say, that's what we do. So I'm analyzing it. During the day, the ideas for water reduction were 10 percent, which we also calculated. So we'll talk about it. And we're heading towards 10 percent. Because the reduced rate is high, we know that. But first, we have to have the control report and the EET... And if we collect taxes from those crooks and not from the citizens like you did, then we'll cut the VAT. And of course we want two rates, too. And the question is, when will the budget, because we are budgetaryly responsible, have it? So that's the point, colleagues. I don't have a problem with 20-10. The question is when and how. And we have to count it. So I've seen, Mrs. Udženija has a suggestion... So we're gonna do all the math and tell the citizens what it looks like. And the coalition will talk about it. So I agree, two rates. But you raised VAT and pulled every Czech family out of the pocket of a thousand crowns a month. Twelve thousand a year. Because ten thousand a month, 10 percent of your increase is a thousand crowns. And a thousand crowns times twelve is twelve thousand. Each Czech family you took 12,000 a year instead of taking the money from the impostors, from the carousels and those who cut sales.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u204	I'm recording two factual points. First President Laudát and then Mr Kučera. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u205	Thank you for the floor. Well, just to be safe, because the Minister keeps saying that, and maybe somebody will believe him - and so far people believe him, that's why. We raised VAT because there was an economic crisis. And if we were to reach out to what was going on in other countries, that pensions had decreased, not even that they were stable, at the same level, they weren't increasing, they were decreasing. And you know what social storms were like. The next part was that the money was donated to the pension system. You've abolished the pension system, there's no world crisis, we've got 4,5% growth. Then why don't you put it back? It's perfectly logical, normal. Why are you making excuses for something that's not gonna happen anyway? You know you're not gonna get those cashiers started. They won't bring anything. So you keep higher rates and yell - it's wrong. Then lower them. It's perfectly simple. The pension system, the second pillar, you've canceled. You have economic growth, so put it back where it was. And by the way, you've blocked and cancelled the fact that at this time, citizens would have a uniform VAT of 15% by the second year. That was in the law, that was approved. You guys canceled. And the petitioner for the annulment or revision of the law was a certain minister Babiš. So please don't say that anymore. All you had to do was let go of what was already in force, and it was approved, and it was supposed to come into force on 1st. 1. 2015.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u206	I thank you, Mr Member, and now Mr Kučera with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u207	Thank you for the floor. I am very pleased that the debate is and that we are really moving forward in it. I'd just like to recapitulate the words of Minister Babiš. I believe that I have correctly noted them, which means that they will agree that there will be two VAT rates, as suggested by the TOP 09, which means 10 per cent and 20 per cent. That's how Minister Babiš put himself here. I take this as a big step forward, a big step forward in this debate. I think that if the x-hours we spent here today or spent in the third reading, so if the output was just the consent that was given here today, with two VAT rates, 10 and 20 percent agreed by Minister Babiš, this is just an excellent outcome of this discussion. The hours we spent here make sense. And I am just signing that the agreement with the TOP 09 proposal has been expressed here by Minister Babiš and that it will support the 10% VAT rate and 20%, which means only two rates, and that it will withdraw from the three rates that it has introduced here, with which it has merely confused or in chaos the tax system. So I believe that Minister Babiš will also withdraw from this, I will say, blunt collection of money from people and dissolution in that leaky state budget. So I would also like to call on Minister Babiš - at the moment we implement it, and I believe that it will be in the foreseeable future when you agree to the TOP 09 proposal to introduce that 20% and 10% tax, so you will finally begin to implement reforms - health reforms, reforms of the social system, reforms of the Financial Administration, so that from that leaky budget where the money is, and forgive me for the word, you are taking it bluntly so that it doesn't flow into the sewer. I think that's the next step, and I believe that we can agree that this is necessary. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u208	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With a factual remark, Mr. Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u209	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kučera, through Mr President, you are every performance of a larger demagog and manipulator. I made it clear that first there will be a check report, an EET, and we'll collect taxes that you didn't collect, and that target 20, 10 - yes. But the target! I didn't say when. You could have done it, you went the other way. So please stop manipulating again. What is that, stupid tax collection or something? I don't know what dull tax collection is. I don't know what that is. Tax collection is for all citizens. That is why we were able to increase pensions, so we could increase the salaries of teachers, soldiers, policemen, firemen and everyone that citizens need almost every day. Dull tax collection, what is it? I picked 72 billion. taxes last year and at the same time we reduced taxes by 22.5 billion. What is this, blunt tax collection? I don't understand. You were talking about your Financial Administration? And why did I have to file a criminal complaint against your Kalousek's friend? For 100 miles. suspicious business at the Financial Administration. Why didn't financial control go to Prague? Once every 200 years. What are you talking about? Dull tax collection? No! Tax collection is necessary for everyone. We need to reduce the deficit, we need to invest, we need money for all our citizens, and I believe that they understand that and that they will definitely support us. And 20, 10? Why not? Sometimes, yes, perspective. Yes, but the priority is to comply with the coalition agreement, our program, and that's what we do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u210	Before we go any further, I'll read two note cards. Today from 13:00 he apologizes to the end of the meeting day Minister Marian Jurečka and 29. 1. between 12 and 19 o'clock for personal reasons, Mr Herbert Pavera apologises. I note Mr Kučera's factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u211	Thank you for the floor. I really don't want to comment on any criminal charges. I think criminal announcements on the stork's nest, on Agrotec etc. There's a whole series, so I guess there's no point in talking about it. Maybe you can just let us know what it looks like during the process. I think that would be interesting information for the Treasury Secretary. I'm talking about the blunt collection of money from people. And that's what it really looks like to me. You've increased the fee for the crop and you're taking money from the people of the Ústí Region and you're letting them into that leaky, unreformed budget of yours. You take money from the municipalities, you let them into that leaky unreformed budget. That's what I call a really dull fundraiser, because you don't invest that money. You didn't build a mile of highway! You ate it all. You've eaten through everything, Minister Babiš! That's what you did with the money. You're increasing your withdrawal and eating it. Investment, where are they? There's not even a mile of highway built. I'm a little sorry about what was said here that you want to support the 20 percent and 10 percent sometimes. I believe you will support them this year. We're gonna make this proposal this year, and this year we're gonna vote on it because he was supposed to pay this year. If you remember, at the time you abolished pension reform, VAT rates were to be set at 20 and 10 percent. You have not done this and we will give you a chance to do this, to improve this, to change this and to take that step for our people, our citizens of the Czech Republic this year, by voting of 20 percent and 10 percent of the VAT rate, so that we can support the Czech company this year and not until sometimes, as you, Minister Babiš, spoke about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u212	Thank you. Another factual point has been made by Mr Kolovratník. And once again I ask you, colleagues, to be quiet. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u213	I'm sorry. I didn't want to interfere with Mr Michal Kučera, but I have to respond. The words that we didn't build a mile of highway aren't true, or a mile of road, as he said. Last year at least, for example, the Chrudim bypass, which is two and a half kilometres long, my colleague, through the President, has been opened, and a number of other large buildings are underway. Again only in eastern Bohemia two sections of road D35, on Královéhradecký kraj D11 etc. And Mr Kučera knows very well what he looks like and how it takes to prepare transport structures. Indeed, transport works, works, and investments are spent effectively, and this is visible on the map of the Republic. So please, keep this demagogy on the record and keep it somewhere else! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u214	Thank you, too. And I'm bringing you back to the subject. We are not talking about roads or highways or where beer is brewed. We are talking about electronic records of sales. Now, therefore, with a factual remark, Mr Laudát has been registered, but he has probably withdrawn his comment. In that case, duly signed up for the debate, Mr Jiří Skalický. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u215	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, the introduction of my contribution to a short abstract. The size of the grey economy in the Czech Republic is about 600 billion. Crowns. From a number of sources and sources last confirmed by the Ministry of Finance last September during the road show in Hradec Králové by the Deputy Minister of Finance. This corresponds to about 15 percent of GDP. So it's still a better average than my twenty-eight Europeans. Of this, entrepreneurs and businessmen account for about 7 percent of the grey economy, which is about 40 billion, but they are included in this according to a study by VISA and manufacturing companies that are not affected by EET at all, so the amount will be significantly lower. So if we look at the situation from the point of view of VAT, which is the main merit of the matter, according to the SAO report from 27. 4. 2015 only 7 percent VAT gap, or if you want VAT leak, according to the Ministry of Finance it represents 82 billion, according to the SAO it is 105 billion. [[13.30 hours]] The 7 percent of this volume is therefore small businessmen, businessmen, construction companies and there are no manufacturing companies, which represents about 6 to 7 billion in absolute terms. Kč. It is, of course, not calculated quite accurately. So if we skip construction companies because construction companies don't have this issue, we can guess, and here it's really just an estimate that there's a gap or a leak between 4 billion and 5 billion, maybe 6 billion. Kč in VAT selection. If we compare it to the amount of the gray economy, which is 600 billion, we're getting to 1,3%. Again, it's roughly, it's not, Minister, calculated quite accurately. The Ministry of Finance's objective, as declared here, is to obtain an improved selection of approximately 10 to 12 billion, which amounts to 1.6 billion. from the total amount of the grey economy, as previously declared. Therefore, if VAT evasion is one of the most important, as declared in this case, the question is why such a small amount, so small volume is the primary interest of the Ministry of Finance. There are two questions. If we take 600 billion. as 100 percent, so how does the Ministry want to address, say, the remaining 590 or 595 billion.? Although I admit here that the Minister has presented some of the steps and instruments which, say, he is fighting with the grey economy, it is still only in billions. The second question that is offered from these numbers is: If the Ministry of Finance wants to choose between 10 and 12 billion. and according to the SAO report, we can consider 4 to 5 billion. is VAT evasion, so there is a kind of gap, or if you want a difference of about 5 to 6 billion, and so the question is, where are the 5 to 6 billion. is taken, if it is somewhere outside of VAT, if it concerns income taxes etc. This is a short introduction to the issue. I would just say very briefly about the report of the Association of Entrepreneurs and Managers and then two brief questions on two examples. According to the report by the Association of Entrepreneurs and Managers on deficiencies and negative impacts on EET, which is, of course, extensive, it is possible to mention that the principle of proportionality, which is explicitly expressed in Section 5 paragraph, is violated in the field of tax collection. 3 of Law No. 280/2009 Coll., Tax Code, which states that the tax administrator saves the rights and rights protected interests of tax entities and third parties in accordance with the law and uses only such means as are at least burdensome in order to achieve the objective of tax administration when demanding the fulfilment of their obligations. That's one thing. Furthermore, the requirement of proportionality is also generally applied to any legislation which is or is intended to be part of the Czech legal order. Although the State has a constitutional right to collect taxes, Article 11 (2) (a) of the EC Treaty provides that: The provisions of Article 4 (5) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms must, when imposing these obligations, ensure that fundamental rights and freedoms are maintained, as provided for in Article 4 (1) of the Treaty. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The introduction of the Act on Electronic Recording of Sales is likely to affect fundamental law, and therefore it is actually put into conflict here - it is put into conflict here - fundamental rights and freedoms such as legislation are subject to a so-called proportionality test, which also includes an examination of the need, a comparison of the legislative instrument under examination with other means that enable the same objective to be achieved. The Association of Entrepreneurs and Managers here expresses conviction, and I am also convinced that I am not an expert in the field of economics that electronic records of sales cannot stand in the proportionality test, as the State is already to have instruments available to help achieve the same goal, i.e. to improve tax collection, including VAT, and which are not affected by fundamental rights and freedoms, virtually. if so, with significantly less intensity, and that these instruments are currently not being used effectively by the State. And to conclude, as promised, two such questions from the real environment. At the same time, the State declares a comparison of conditions for honest entrepreneurs, which should ultimately be reflected in the settlement of a competitive environment. However, there are two questions about whether this is really true. One example. There are two vegetable growers who sell their produce, one in a stone shop in the square, kept under the relevant regulations as retail, will of course have to run the EET. The second grower is registered as a private farmer, sells vegetables on the market or the Internet, has a trading licence for intermediary activities - and does EET have to, or doesn't have to? I'd like an answer here, yes or no. A similar example is winery, and here I want to declare that I greatly appreciate Czech winemakers and especially Moravian winemakers, but it is similar. Moravian winemaker registered as a private farmer selling his wines so-called from the cellar, EET does not need - question mark - because he does not have registered retail. His neighbour, also a wine farmer, a private farmer who operates a wine shop daily and who has a business under the relevant retail legislation, must already have an EET or will have to. In other words, two people who sell virtually the same product in almost the same way, but have registered different kinds of trades, will both have an EET obligation, or will they not have an EET obligation? It follows that there are really a number of issues in the law, which are absolutely pragmatic, and it would probably be a good idea to clarify them, because this, of course, evokes the idea that the EET can distort the business environment in some cases, although, of course, taxes are payable and VAT is therefore also payable. One final point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u216	Ambassador, I'm sorry, but your time is up. Anyway, I appreciate the relevance of your contribution to the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u217	Then there won't be a last comment. Thank you, Mr President. If there's a chance, I'd be happy to finish up next time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u218	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Foldyna is registered. He is not here, in which case we will continue the debate. Next up, Mrs Chalánková is registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the TOP 09 are the recipients of many letters from small businessmen, entrepreneurs and some of them I could read to you here. For example, one: Why am I opposed to electronic sales log? Because it's socialism in practice. I have a number of reasons for introducing electronic sales records and I have only two reasons to oppose them. First of all, why would I be up for it? I'm a supporter of modern technology, I'm in favour of fair business, I don't like any violation of the law, I like the order of the accounts and the overview of the company's operation. And above all, I'm in counseling and my companies don't charge cash or credit card payments, so electronic sales records don't concern me personally. [[13.40 hours]] Therefore, why I would not have to deal with electronic sales records and why I would not have to oppose them. Still, I'm against electronic sales records. I am against fundamentally, completely and consistently. Why? For two reasons. The first reason is the electronic record of sales itself. It's a completely inappropriate instrument. We do not need electronic sales records because the state has all the means for effective tax collection. Electronic sales record is discriminatory because it hits the small ones and helps the big ones. Electronic sales log is a waste of public funds. Electronic record of sales is simply a harmful waste and I consider the attempt to introduce it to be a state on account of. My second reason why I'm opposed to electronic sales records has a broader social context. The electronic record of sales is the logical continuation of sustained pressure from socialist-minded politicians, big businessmen and trade union bosses against small business. Especially in the last two years, our society has started to change for worse. Laws are increasing, freedom of decision-making is dwindling, data are being collected more and more. The state wants to raise more and more money from citizens, and then it does very badly with the money, or politicians buy voters' votes for it. The state is transferring more and more its work to entrepreneurs and businessmen. plíživě, inconspicuously, the Czech Republic is turning into a socialist state with oligarchic elements. Despite the failure of the social state experiment, which has already been expressed by top European politicians, the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic still claims that he wants to preserve the social state and therefore has to collect more and more on taxes. He even threatens his citizens-businessmen to increase their taxes if they don't accept government demands. Today, the concept of the welfare state is just a front for building a new socialism. This means strengthening the power of the state, a high taxation of all activities and assets, a tendency to large industries, an extreme increase in power and the self-confidence of trade unions, and, on the contrary, pressure on small businesses. That's why I'm against electronic sales records. Electronic sales log is an obvious attempt to limit the freedom of business of small entrepreneurs and businessmen. The electronic record of sales is a logical continuation of strengthening the power of the state. Electronic sales log is a virus that's supposed to infect our company. The Constitution of the Czech Republic says that we are a liberal democratic state. See ya. That's why I'm against electronic sales records. Because the state is here for us, not us for him - writes a small businessman whose name I know. It follows that there is a pursuit of small entrepreneurs, self-employed persons, and they would certainly be better off leaving business and becoming employees. That's one part of the commentary on this letter. And I have one more question for the Minister if he can answer me. From training for small businessmen, businessmen got to me this question. When training for VAT control reports when a small businessman sells, he is an entrepreneur in the sale of wine, importer and seller of wine, if he would sell a few bottles of this wine to a natural person, he must identify the natural person he sold the wine, and the identifier of that natural person for the purposes of the authorities is his birth number, the birth number of the person who buys the wine. I wanted to ask if it was true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u220	I thank you and please to the microphone - with the de facto remark, Minister Babiš. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u221	Thank you, I'm sorry, but I don't understand the question. The check report is VAT for the payer. Your question is completely pointless.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u222	Thank you, and now, please, to the microphone with Mr Votava in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u223	Thank you for the floor. No, only if my colleague Chalánková, through you, has not noticed that, for example, the tax identification number of a natural person is a birth number and it is on all invoices and it is also publicly available on the Internet. Unfortunately, sometimes we play the protection of personal data, but this is a fact and this is a fact. I've been pointing that out for years to make a difference.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u224	Thank you and with the factual remark of Mrs Chalánková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u225	So thank you for clearing all this up. It was a question that came to me really from training, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u226	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Bezecný's microphone with a proper application for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u227	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to my reasons why I cannot support the proposal put forward on electronic record of sales. On the most general level, I will state the problem or proceed to two quotations. Forgive me for such an historic window, I'm a historian. "We do not intend to destroy the middle state, as our enemies say, but we are interested in a strong, prosperous business, whose legitimate demands we have taken into our program, and we will enforce them with all our determination." The second quote: "As far as business is concerned, we must eliminate them dryly by taking over, buying out, putting them to death, so that we have a distribution network as soon as possible up to the consumer and in the hand. " I'm not doing a quiz here who's the author of these quotes. It was Klement Gottwald. First, the first quote is from 1946, from the pre-election period before the elections in 1946, when he tried to lure businessmen, small entrepreneurs, among the voters of the Communist Party. The second is then from the meeting of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia, November 1948, after the Communists have already taken power. This historical excursion I presented rather for a revival and completely without any indication of an update. I assume here only a general lesson about what differences can be between promises, real intentions and actions and their consequences. Traders have always represented a layer that stabilized society. Their activity and willingness to bear responsibility for their prosperity and the livelihood of their employees made them largely independent of the state, from which they have always asked only to create conditions for their work. In other words, they always gave more companies than they asked of them. After all, it was on small businesses, small businesses, on tradesmen, private farmers built or built, that a modern Czech nation was created. The current advanced Europe is well aware of the role of small and medium-sized enterprises in its economic stability. For example, the document known as the Small Business Act adopted by the European Commission in 2008 shows this. According to this document, achieving the best possible conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises depends mainly on the social recognition of entrepreneurs. The general air in society should lead individuals to view the possibility of starting their own business as attractive and should recognise that SMEs make a substantial contribution to employment growth and economic prosperity. [[13.50 hours]] The main contribution to achieving such an environment favourable to small and medium-sized enterprises must therefore be to change the perception of the role of entrepreneurs. In other words, political leaders and the media should, with the support of state administrations, be more aware of business and the associated willingness to take risks. I choose from the important objectives of supporting small and medium-sized enterprises contained in this document at least: To create an environment in which entrepreneurs and family businesses will be able to flourish and entrepreneurship will be rewarded. Or - get the government to respond to the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises. The instrument is intended to reduce the administrative burden on business. In its opinion of 28 May last year, the Legislative Council of the Government drew attention to the link of the bill on electronic record of sales with this and some other documents of the European Union. From this point of view, I quote: "On the other hand, the draft law introduced by the obligation to record sales affects, in particular, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, who are burdened by other administrative requirements. " In this context, it should be noted that the European Commission has expressed itself in this sense that small and medium-sized enterprises are key players in the European economy, and in 2008 it presented a comprehensive framework for their support, the Small Business Act, which was intended and intended to enable the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises. In 2011, the Commission then issued a report to reduce the regulatory burden on small and medium-sized enterprises in all areas where possible for futuro. It also follows from the case-law of the European Court of Justice that national measures which render the exercise of fundamental freedom of establishment less attractive must be necessary and proportionate. Support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises is also one of the points of the Government's programming declaration, which should take action in this context to minimise the administrative burden on entrepreneurs. In this respect, at least the petitioner's efforts to minimise the burden on entrepreneurs and consumers associated with the introduction and subsequent operation of the sales registration system can be considered correct, for example in the measure under consideration, according to which the cost of recording sales can be claimed by way of a tax deduction. In view of the above and following the subsequent discussion of the bill, the Government Legislative Council continues to have significant doubts as to whether the introduction of the obligation to register sales and related obligations is in line with the principles enshrined in the European Union's legal acts referred to above, namely the policy of supporting small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and whether the measures accompanying their introduction, which should minimise the associated administrative burden on entrepreneurs, are sufficient. Doubts, therefore, sounded not only from the opposition but directly from the government. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] From the above-mentioned opinion of the Government Legislative Council, the petitioner did not compete with any other serious clause concerning the preferential treatment of certain types of sales only on the basis of the definition of the entity to which these sales are due. This is regarded by the Government's Legislative Council as discriminatory and, as a result, adversely affecting competition. In the light of the above and of the discussion on this subject, the Legislative Council of the Government, as stated in its opinion, considers that the proposed legislation should contain as few exceptions as possible to fully exclude the obligation to register sales, indeed in justified cases.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u228	Ambassador, I apologize, but I will ask my colleagues to keep their voice down, because the noise level in the House has increased again. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u229	I don't mind so much. In the end, it is just before the break, and in school it is so that just before the break students are restless. So just before the end of the negotiations, I understand that colleagues are also more likely to see themselves in their homes. However, there are two quotations to consider on the road. "The government will support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, which still represents an unused growth and employment reserve. We also consider it important to reduce the maximum administrative burden for entrepreneurs." I quote from the Government's 2003 programming statement. And the idea of thinking about whether the introduction of electronic sales records will really lead to a lower administrative burden, whether the government's actions so far lead to a reduction in the administrative burden for small and medium-sized enterprises, whether the solution would not be the introduction of a single collection point, a single control point, the unification of the VAT rate to 15 per cent, as suggested by the government last time. And then one more quote: "We will reduce the administrative burden for entrepreneurs to the maximum. We will be inspired by the experience of leaders in this area, such as the Netherlands." [[Mr. Ambassador...]] I quote from the 2013 ANO election program. Instead of the Netherlands, we have Croatia.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u230	Sorry to interrupt, but the noise was pretty big. I'm gonna ask you for the left-handed...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u231	I'm gonna say goodbye. I thought you said I was past my time. [[No, no, I'm sorry.]] But I'm not gonna use that 15 seconds already, I'm gonna save it for the next 10 minutes. Thank you. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u232	Yes, thank you. And now I'm recording two factual points. With the first to the microphone of Mr Laudát, then Mr Vácha will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u233	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I was scared over there, Mr. Chvojka waving red plates, and I thought it was a battalion. I'm sorry I'm a little embarrassed about everything that's going on here today. Ladies and gentlemen, I would, after all, because the Minister of Finance keeps saying things over and over again. The fact is, in the first two years of the government, because he's also using it PR towards the public, you haven't built, you haven't completed a mile of highway. It is now, but at the time of completion, it was only the expressway. So it's not true. The second thing is, the minister says something about buying land. I would point out that if someone wasn't quite clear, what Mr. Prachař pushed through here was dysfunctional, wrong. And I was the one who initiated the amendment to the law. We agreed across the political spectrum. So don't let him brag about his credit, his job. He's going to buy himself out under a law other than the one he's been intercedeing for and voting for. If Mr Prachař had listened to our amendments back then, we could have forgiven ourselves for a year's loss of land purchase. It wasn't working. And it's not true that it was what Babišův's minister came up with. It was a parliamentary initiative based on the fact that Mr Prachař caused the loss of two construction seasons. It's just an explanation. And the next one. I hope you'll keep your word, the deal we made between the presidents of the MPs. Nobody's abused priority rights here today for a long time. They performed properly on behalf of the Members, for those technical showers that were at one point, so I do not think that this was significant, and that this item will be suspended until Wednesday the tenth as agreed. I hope you'll keep this agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u234	Yes, Mr. Ambassador. I will make this proposal and then let it vote. I'm counting on it. Now, please, with Mr Vácha's de facto opinion. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u235	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'd like to conclude, because I started first, so I thought it would be appropriate if I... I don't want to be completely finished, that's up to you. However, I would like to thank the approach you adopted at the beginning of the meeting day for hearing my request and voting on my objection, so I could speak again. And I would like to thank the House for allowing me to perform for the next ten minutes. However, I am concerned about the proposal...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u236	I will ask the House for peace, right and left, so that we can finish today's meeting with dignity. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u237	I was more concerned with the peace in the front. I was a little concerned about Mr. Faltýnek's proposal, but I think we can deal with that in some way. So thank you again to the entire House for the approach she chose this morning. I wore my silver tie today -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-29-ps2013-037-05-001-999.u238	Ambassador, I'm sorry, but it's 14 o'clock. [[Member Vácha: Yes, thank you.]] So the time for third reading is up. I suggest we cancel the 37th meeting by 10. 2:00 in the morning. I ask that we vote on this proposal. I'll check you out first. I'd like you to register with your cards again. At this point, I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 27, to which 111 are registered, for 90, against 2. I am stating that the motion has been accepted, and at this moment I am interrupting the 37th meeting. Thank you all for your cooperation and have a nice weekend.
