ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-009-046.u1	46. Government Bill on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties and on the Creation of Laws published in the Collection of Laws and International Treaties (Law on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties) /German Press 646/ - First Reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted this time will be presented by the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-009-046.u2	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the Members for their helpfulness in the previous vote. Mr President, honourable Members, allow me to introduce the Government's bill on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties and on the drafting of legislation published in the Collection of Laws and International Treaties. The aim of this proposal is to make the necessary changes to the rule of law relating to the introduction of modernisation and electronisation of the creation and publication of legislation. The proposal falls within the broader framework of the strategic objectives of the government within the framework of the so-called eGovernment, i.e. increasing the competitiveness of the Czech Republic, democratization of public administration performance and the fight against corruption. The main principle of the proposed legislation is the introduction of a legally binding electronic form of the Collection of Laws and International Treaties. The current document form of the Collection of Laws and Collections of International Treaties is difficult to reach and does not meet current requirements of the information society and the information of the population, both the lay public and the public professional. The orientation of a citizen in the legal order is currently very difficult without the use of information technology. The proposal will therefore allow for the creation of an official and modern legal information system, which will be linked to other information systems in the field of law-making. Above all, however, the recipient of the right will have free access via the Internet - I stress free access - to legally binding and guaranteed information about the applicable texts of individual laws. This is also linked to another principle of proposed legislation, which is the introduction of a legally binding full text of the amendment to legislation. To date, such a system is not available free of charge. [[19.30 hours]] The proposal is further aimed at improving the quality and efficiency of the legislative process. The draft legislation will be submitted through an electronic system, ensuring a quick, uniform and fully electronic object, and signing documents. This system will include specialised templates for the different types of legal acts, which will take into account their formal structure as required. The proposal therefore introduces partial rules aimed at increasing the transparency of the legislative process and reducing the corruption risks associated with them. In the electronic law-making system, it will be possible to identify the originator, the time and nature of the amendment to the legislative proposal and will be guaranteed that an unauthorised person will not intervene in the text of the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-009-046.u3	Thank you, too, Minister. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Martin Plíšek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-009-046.u4	Good evening, dear colleagues. I would like to propose, at the outset, a merger of the debate on press 646 and 647, to discuss them simultaneously, because they are directly linked.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-009-046.u5	I will vote on this proposal. I'm just gonna make a note of him to present him well. This means that I am registering here the proposal that we combine the debate with the House press 646 and 647. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 61, followed by 158 Members and Members, for proposal 137, against none. I'm of the opinion that consent has been given. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to open up a general debate and I'm going to interrupt this point and I'm going to open up a second one. So I am opening up a general debate and interrupting this point. Opening second point
