ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u1	188. Government bill amending Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts (Act on Medicines), as amended, and Act No. 234/2014 Sb., on Civil Service, as amended /German press 706/ - 3rd reading I ask that the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček and the rapporteur of the guarantee committee take the position at the rapporteur's table - that was the Committee on Health - Member Rostislav Vyzula. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 706/4, which was delivered on 16 September 2016. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 706/5. I am now asking the appellant whether he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. That's right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly mention the proposal for an amendment to the Act on Medicines and its content. The proposal submitted pursues two main objectives. The first is the adaptation of the EU regulation on clinical trials of medicinal products for human use. The second main motive of the proposed law is to establish a mechanism for limiting the so-called reexports of medicinal products to ensure the availability of medicinal products for patients in the Czech Republic. The proposed law was discussed at second reading on 13 September 2016 and a number of amendments were made to it. I would like to respond to some of them here now. From the point of view of the needs of the public health insurance system, Mr Vyzula's amendment concerning the increase in the percentage rate, the reduction in the price of medicinal products can be fully supported by the Ministry of Health on the basis of available data on their prices and reimbursements in the various countries of the European Union. The aim of this draft amendment to Act No. 48 is in the area of the maximum price system of medicinal products to ensure that price reductions are applied not only to the first similar but also to all other similar medicinal products in the reference group, which should make the regulation of prices and reimbursements of medicinal products more effective and that both patients and health insurance companies should be able to save expenditure on these medicines. Let me make one more point, so maybe I can explain it more easily. This is about the most expensive medicines called. biological medications or central medicines that concern patients with cancer, multiple sclerosis and so on. Our goal is to achieve savings at the expense of the profits of pharmaceutical companies and devote the entire savings to treating more patients. Because every year in this group, we have a relatively big problem, because health insurance costs here are rising by 1.5 to 2 billion. Crowns. I have also noted, in the media and, say, in the context of the backstage of the Chamber of Deputies, quite a great activity by representatives and lobbyists of pharmaceutical companies, which are very and very trying not to pass through this or it has been postponed because it is at the expense of their profits. I firmly believe that in this House we will all pull together and fight for the interests of patients, not for the profits of pharmaceutical companies, and I believe that no one will try to build this law, delay it, because it would postpone this savings. Let me just do this here on this amendment, because I think it deserves a lot of attention, because the activities of those who do not want it are quite large and significant. But allow for further amendments. On the contrary, I cannot support the amendment of the Advertising Regulation. The Ministry of Health identifies with the dissenting position of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The propagator shall be responsible for the means of dissemination, whereas the contracting authority and the processor shall be responsible for the content of the advertising. However, the proposal shall unsystemically discharge the responsibility of the processor. The new regulation of the joint responsibility of the contracting authority and the dissemination agent would mean that the advertiser would also be responsible for the dissemination and dissemination of advertising content in the present case. The proposed allocation of responsibilities cannot be required fairly by the contracting authority and the spreader. Similarly, the Ministry cannot support most of the other amendments tabled at second reading by individual Members because they are either contrary to or go significantly beyond the objectives pursued by the proposal, without such change being justified by any acute need. Such a proposal is for example. the introduction of a dispensation fee in pharmacies or the use of the concept of pharmacy and the designation of pharmacies by the pharmacies cross, which is problematic even in the absence of transitional provisions. Thank you for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u3	Thank you, Minister. I am opening a debate in which I record four applications - Mrs Marková, Mrs Pastuchová, Mr Zahradník and Mr Štětina. The rapporteur is reporting for a debate with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to a law that is extremely important. It is a law, as has been said here by the Minister, who corrects a number of issues that were not there in the past. And it's amazing that something like this hasn't been here yet, like certain firm rules on reporting. As a result, over our republic, there have been re-exports abroad worth up to - sometimes they say three billion, some five or eight billion. And that's just for the prices, please, that's with us. Now, do the math of what it might have been like if the price of drugs isn't the cheapest in our country, but half the price against Germany. And that's why it was worth it to distributors to always buy from us and actually sell for less than double without any control in Germany, but if it was just 10, 20, 30 percent, it would be a nice profit. Let us remember one more thing before we discuss and before we vote. The Health Committee has been very careful about this issue. We spent almost a year discussing all possible options. And we need to realize that the funds for health care in our country are what they are. It's about 300 billion. crowns a year. In fact, this government has allowed an increase of about 10 billion each year over the last three years. It's like Roughly, but about 10 billion. always extra. [[12.10 hours]] It's even assumed that next year it's not 300 billion, but about 320, maybe 330 billion. But these are funds that seem to be very bulky, but the secondary Austria has a health spending of some 500 billion. So we still have a lot to catch up on. But it's not the government's fault, it's the previous governments' fault, where for years and years, there hasn't actually been any funding for health care. It was a mistake. And now we're doing the best we can. Despite the fact that the situation is improving, we still have to save somewhere. That's what saving would be in fixing the prices of some drugs, and that's the most expensive medicine. One patient's treatment with the most expensive medications is from one day to three million a year. There is nothing we can do about it, because it is a price that is decided throughout Europe. However, where these original drugs go into the form of generics, that means similar medicines, but not entirely original, so we can do a lot there. There we can reduce the maximum price in a fundamental way. This is the subject of one amendment, which the Minister mentioned here. I would like to ask you for a very constructive debate on this matter. We've discussed a lot of things, discussed things. Maybe there's no need to comment on everything. And I'd like to ask for your approval. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u5	Good noon, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Thank you to the rapporteur. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mrs Soňa Marková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u6	Have a nice day, Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues. Let me ask you repeatedly, as was said in the second reading of this bill, to support my amendment, which you will find under letter E and in the system under number 4916. With great interest I, like many of you, listened last week to the press conference of the Minister of Health Němeček. As a member of the Board of Directors, I am aware that the budget for drugs cannot be increased indefinitely. And if more patients can be treated for the same budget, you cannot disagree. Yes, we need cheaper medicines for patients, but we need them here in the Czech Republic. If prices are only reduced, will these medicines not become even more attractive for exports to the western regions of the European Union, where in some cases they are up to several times more expensive than in our country and thus can be sold with high profit? I've been in contact with patients and patient organizations for a long time. Many of them feel very sensitive about the lack of certain medicines especially for heart disease, breathing difficulties, nervous disorders, diabetes, or blood clotting. These medicines, for which patients normally go to a pharmacy and which significantly affect the quality of their life, but often there are blackouts, due to the so-called. re-exports or import outages. After the government submitted the proposal, or respectively. Mr. Minister of Health, the one we are discussing has been examined by experts, concluded that the problem of parallel distribution of medicines, i.e. the so-called. reexports, medicines covered by health insurance, are not solved sufficiently, rather cosmetically. The problem of reporters is addressed by the legislation recently adopted in Slovakia, which is also inspired by my amendment. Its aim is to introduce measures limiting reexport in a simpler and less administratively burdensome way than the government proposal. Only the marketing authorisation holder, the pharmaceutical company or the distributor authorised by him, could distribute the medicines paid abroad. This treatment applies only to medicines covered. They are regulated by the maximum price and are therefore at risk of reporting in cases where regulation is not so strict in other countries. In view of the obligations already established in our Act on Medicines, my amendment, while maintaining the basic principle, is more concise than the Slovak one. For example, there is no need to introduce a definition. From the point of view of our law, this is about distribution, because exports are directed to a third country. The ministerial amendment is already working with this term. We already have the obligation of the registration holder to provide supplies for patients in the Czech Republic and sanctions for non-compliance in the law. Also, pharmacies, if they order a medicine as a pharmacy, cannot return it to distribution. Therefore, only the holder of the marketing authorisation or authorised distributor may make a distribution abroad. The authorisation will be issued for each distribution separately - by analogy with Slovak modification. The Act lays down minimum requirements for authorisation. In practice, the authorisation should address the transmission of information to the marketing authorisation holder of the distributor of the distribution carried out abroad. Subsequently, the holder of the marketing authorisation shall electronically report data on his medications distributed abroad either by him or by the distributor. The report interval will be set by the decree. The obligation to transmit information on the reexport is added to § 33 to reports on deliveries to the market. The distributor's report on the intention to re-export is therefore cancelled and remains a classic report according to DIS13. The State Institute for Drug Control will transmit information on reexports once a month to the Ministry, which will publish a quarterly review of the medicinal products exported. Since, according to the current wording of the Act, the marketing authorisation holder already has an obligation to supply the medicinal product in quantities and time intervals corresponding to the needs of patients in the Czech Republic and the applicable sanctions, he will be able to distribute abroad or grant consent only if the needs of patients in the Czech Republic are covered, otherwise he will be sanctioned. Penalties shall be granted even if the distributor distributes the medicinal product without or contrary to the authorisation of the distributor, similarly if the marketing authorisation holder does not notify the distribution of his paid product abroad. This amendment arose, as has already been said, on the basis of the Slovak law, where, in fact, not only words, it is fighting against the so-called. Reexports that may endanger enough certain medication needed for patients. The Slovak law also received notification from the European Union, so that the counter-argument of non-compliance with European Union legislation will not succeed. Moreover, there has been more and more talk recently within the European Parliament about the possibility of removing medicinal products from the product group. [[12.20 hours]] In the draft report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety of the European Parliament, it is directly mentioned that the market for medicines is different in one important sign, which makes medicines impossible to be understood as other goods, given that the protection of intellectual property within this market could be contrary to the fundamental right to health protection, which governments undertake to ensure access to medicines. It is further noted that the pharmaceutical market in Europe is characterised by a high level of regulation in terms of safety, but a smaller level of control in terms of the economic aspect and quality of innovation. The analysis available to me shows that parallel exports, i.e. reexports, were calculated for 2015 at around 3.5 billion. Crowns. The costs are at the producer's prices without the margins of the distributor and pharmacy, without VAT. For 2015, more than 6 million were exported in this way. packaging of medicinal products. Some medicinal products that have been the subject of the largest reexports, thus belonging to the TOP 20, are not replaceable at all, such as Victoza, Ketosteril, Daxas, Novorapid, Ezeltrol, Lantus or Novomix. There are also many specific cases from patient organizations in the Czech Republic where patients could not find their irreplaceable or difficult to replace medicine in pharmacies for a long time, and their long-term treatment was also threatened. The proposal that I have put forward will guarantee the availability of medicines for patients while supporting pharmacies, especially small ones. Thanks to this proposal, the requirement to deliver drugs within 48 hours will also be feasible. I am very glad that after years of discussions and haunting by the European Commission, the Ministry of Health has decided to resolve problems with the lack of drugs in pharmacies for the benefit of our patients. In contrast to the ministerial proposal, however, my proposal will actually guarantee that patients in the Czech Republic and not in Denmark or Germany or in other countries will use the medicines at reduced prices mentioned here. For this reason, I am asking for the support of my amendment. All those who really mean fighting the so-called reexports should raise their hand for him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u7	Thank you, Mrs Marková. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mrs Jana Pastuchová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u8	Thank you. Mr President, dear government, colleagues, let me, too, comment on this proposal. In the submitted amendment to the Act, the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic seeks to limit the simultaneous exports of medicinal products from the Czech Republic and thus to ensure a sufficient number of medicinal products for Czech patients. Unfortunately, the proposed text does not provide viable solutions for insufficient supply of certain medicines, which in most cases is due to insufficient supplies of pharmaceutical companies due to their supply management system. The Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic currently has a tool for limiting parallel distribution. It may issue emergency measures - Section 11 letter. (h) the Act on Medicines. If the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic complements the existing instrument with a penalty for breach of the issued emergency measure, it would not be necessary to create new paragrafo texts and seek a difficult path to compatibility with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The amendment to the Act is against parallel exports and not against shortcomings in medicinal products. In most cases, it is not the parallel distribution, but the manufacturers themselves, because of the problems of production, the withdrawal of serious lots, and so on. It is generally known that in some markets a lack of medicinal products may arise due to problems in production or quality problems, which is the topic of the working group of the European Medicines Agency, which regularly publishes on its website a list of centrally approved medicinal products, which are in short supply due to problems in production. The question here is whether and how the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic, or the State Institute for Drug Control, systematically collects information about production problems or quality problems, and how these data are further handled. Based on the experience of foreign arrangements from European Union countries, in my amendment, I propose to combine the obligation to place the product on the market to prepare a proposal for measures to prevent potential difficulties in the supply of the product, to mitigate the impact of supply failures and to ensure that distributors are informed so that these distributors are able to continue to fulfil their obligations towards customers. In the case of life-saving medicinal products - the term used in medicine, the meaning of which is essentially stable and should not cause difficulties in interpreting the law - it is proposed to impose on holders an obligation to develop a crisis plan to ensure the availability of products in order to prevent threats to patients who depend on these products. The proposal is based on the fact that the imposition of the obligation on distributors to ensure the supply of the product does not address the situation unless, at the same time, the original suppliers from which distributors obtain the products are also obliged. The proposed text lacks the definition of deficiency. This definition cannot be found even in terms of current stock or worsening coverage of patients' needs. Deficiencies need to be defined precisely. The criteria for determining and evaluating the deficiency shall be objective and transparent. If we were to define a shortage for the Czech Republic, it would be acceptable to accept the wording of § 77c para. 1. In the same section, I propose also to delete part of the text, because the author of the draft says in an unnecessarily confusing and interpreted way that the lack of coverage of patients' current needs is meant to be inadequate and that the availability and effectiveness of treatment is to be jeopardised by the lack of coverage of patients' current needs and that it is to be applied to the protection of the health of the population and that it is to have a significant impact on the provision of health services. Then I repeat only one and the same in a circle, namely that there is a lack of medicine on the market without which at least some patients lack significant therapy. However, this is quite sufficient in the words "the actual supply of the medicinal product or medicinal products in question no longer adequately covers the current needs of patients in the Czech Republic." For this reason, I propose to delete the text as completely redundant. Furthermore, the proposed amendment lacks the absence of the definition of irreplaceable drug, which I try to define in § 77d para. 1. The proposed notification period of 15 days is disproportionately long. Report an export drug that will be on the list 15 days in advance... thanks to Mr Skalický amendment, the deadline is likely to be extended to 15 working days. If it passes, it represents a very bureaucratic and financial burden for the distributor, it creates legal uncertainty and is not real for the dynamic market. [[12.30 hours]] If the distribution of medicines abroad is prohibited within this period, the product can remain in stock because pharmacies have the option to choose a distributor, and this does not mean that even if the product is in stock, the distributor will automatically find a customer in the Czech Republic. How will it be ensured that a pharmacy or hospital must remove from the distributor the medicinal preparation listed as irreplaceable? How will any compensation be dealt with? It is also necessary to note that it is possible to distribute medicines to hospitals on the basis of a selection procedure, and if it is possible to sell the medicine to the hospital, then at least at the purchase price, which is increased by the premium on the purchase itself. In my amendment, I propose that the notification period be reduced to two days. Here I must confess that it should have been mentioned for two working days. The State Institute for Drug Control has a powerful IT system that can evaluate very quickly whether or not there is a shortage of the medicinal product. Furthermore, the State Institute for Drug Control will be strengthened by two additional jobs, which will only address the issue of whether or not exports will be authorised. In the proposed amendment, I also lack a simple and clear rule for removing the drug from the list and I try to do this rule in § 77c para. 4. This new paragraph is intended to prevent disproportionate restrictions on the rights of distributors and, at the same time, under the threat of the disappearance of measures, to force the competent administrative authorities to actively manage the list of medicinal products whose distribution abroad is required by distributors to report to the Institute and to contribute to the fact that only those products for which this is fully justified are on the list. However, I very much appreciate the efforts of the Ministry of Health to put pressure on distributors to supply medicinal products to pharmacies within 48 hours of receiving the request, as proposed in Section 77 para. Article 4 (1) (a) h). However, once again, I see this proposal as unfinished. For this reason, I have taken this into account in my amendment. Finally, I would simply point out that the Ministry of Health is trying to enforce an amendment which is very similar to the original Slovak version, despite the fact that the European Commission 26. 5. 2016 invited Slovakia to amend its law. I therefore ask for the support of my amendment, which seeks to level with at least the fundamental shortcomings or under-the-ends of the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u9	Thank you, Mrs Pastuchová. Another duly registered member is Mr Jan Zahradník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u10	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I have come to this issue as rapporteur for the Committee on European Affairs, which has discussed this amendment in terms of its compliance with EU law. Otherwise, you know that here in the House, I'm dealing with a little different topics than the topic of health care or the law on pharmaceuticals. I must start by saying correctly that the Committee on European Affairs has discussed this law and that it has not found a contradiction with EU law and therefore recommended to the House to approve it in the version submitted. Furthermore, I consider it my duty, not now as rapporteur, but as a Member, to draw attention to some things that point to the non-compliance of this law with EU law. This wording, as it is presented, is opposed only to parallel exports but not to the lack of medicinal products on the Czech market. In 2013, a study was carried out by Birgli on the causes of drug shortages in EU countries - Greece, Spain, Poland, France and the United Kingdom. The report clearly shows that parallel distribution was not worth the shortcomings of medicinal products in those countries, but the most common causes were in the section of unpredictable causes of drug failures, natural disasters, problems in production, lack of raw materials, non-compliance with regulatory standards, failures on packaging lines. Parallel distribution took the eighth place in the ranking of these causes of drug shortages. I must say that I see the amended wording of the Act on Medicines as a quantitative restriction, which is not compatible with the TFEU, namely Art. 35 of this Treaty, which states that quantitative restrictions on exports and all measures having equivalent effect are prohibited between Member States. The question is what is meant by measures having equivalent effect. Here, too, there is a statement from the European Court of Justice which defined the measure with the same effect in the following words. This is, according to the European Court of Justice, all trade rules adopted by Member States which are capable of preventing, directly or indirectly, really or potentially intra-Community trade are considered to have a comparable effect as a quantitative restriction. There is even a judgment of the European Court of Justice in the case of trade in medicinal products, i.e. parallel trade. This 1976 judgment, again in the same words, sets out what a quantitative restriction on exports is and considers it prohibited in the Community. I'm sure you do. The Ministry of Health argues here that Articles 34 and 35 do not exclude prohibitions or restrictions on imports, exports or transit justified by public morality, public policy, public security, protection of the health and life of humans and animals, protection of plants, protection of national cultural treasures, etc. etc., or the protection of industrial and commercial property. However, such prohibitions or restrictions shall not serve as a means of arbitrary discrimination or a disguised restriction on trade between Member States. Here I have to say that there is a certain parallel, which we may have been here more than once, but I recall one case, they have experienced, and this was in the case of an amendment to the Act on Air Protection, where the paragraph allowing the control of boilers in households, i.e. gross violation of the constitutional right to confidentiality of privacy and housing, explains the same constitutional right to the health and safety of citizens. So the question is which of the two public interests is more important. The ministry here clearly prefers public interest over free trade. I must also point out and recall that the Ministry of Health did not accept comments from the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Czech Republic, which referred to the judgment in 1976. [[12.40 hours]] I would like to take another look at the last things, and these are the reporting obligations and the problems of deadlines, which Mrs Pastuchová has also mentioned here. In my opinion, it is quite reasonable here to limit the distributor's obligation to provide the operator with the required delivery of a registered medicinal product within 48 hours of receipt of the request only if it is a pharmacy with extended working time, including Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. If this is not the case, it may be a pharmacy in a small town or a village holding a weekend break within two working days. Then there's one more thing. There is a limited period of time that must pass from the application of measures of a general nature. Here we propose to shorten this period to two working days, and therefore these two working days may not be directly a limit for the adoption of measures of a general nature, but to initiate a procedure for the issue of measures of a general nature. I think that it is equally important for distribution companies to make provision that states that the content of the notification is not disclosed. I have noted that no return to second reading is proposed in the table of amendments, nor will I. I merely considered it my duty, given that I have taken this further into account, to convey my doubts about the compliance of this standard with the law of the European Union. So if the Ministry wants to assert its opinion, let it do so in the vote. Otherwise, I would like to recommend to support the amendment under letter C tabled by Mrs Pastuchová, or the amendment under letter D, partly similar to the proposal I tabled by Mrs Pastuchová. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u11	I thank Mr Zahradník. I would like to draw your attention, my dear colleagues, friendlyly on the basis of calls from the Chamber of Deputies, that according to § 95 para. In the third reading of the Rules of Procedure, a debate shall be held only in which legislative technical adjustments, grammatical errors, errors in writing or printing may be proposed, which logically result from the amendments tabled and, where appropriate, the proposal to repeat the second reading. Please do not bring in proper speeches that belong to the first or second reading. Thank you. Another duly registered member is Mr Jiří Štětina. Thank you, honourable Member. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u12	Good noon, Mr Vice-President, Minister, Dear Professor, ladies and gentlemen. I will clearly respect what the Vice-President has said here, and I will be very happy if this concerns all the laws that we will still approve here before this House ends its activities. So I'm just gonna be motto. On the one hand, I think the Minister has made everything very clear here. The rapporteur has justified this. There was no need to discuss a number of things. So I'm going to say some basic things. It is quite right that the Ministry of Health has a public interest and not a business interest. First of all. When I was preparing the amendments, I asked the patients first, then I asked the pharmacists, then I took advantage of my own experience, and this really comes first of all public interest. I believe that pharmacy is - and that is clear, it is not just my conviction - the health service. And that's how we have to treat her. I think that this bill, which the Ministry is proposing with a number of amendments, is good. And if I can finally speak, my amendments are only going to a few basic things - to prevent re-exports, secondly, to get in every pharmacy the patient who belongs to him, that means he doesn't have to go around Prague and the entire region, so that it doesn't go abroad. And then it's such a small thing that someone who can't give it away shouldn't be giving it away, that is. After a one-day course, that's totally wrong. That the pharmacy that gives the medicine should be labeled in some way, but the Minister has said so. I'll take it, and I think it's gonna work out in the future. And, of course, I would like you to support some of my amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u13	Thank you, Mr Štětin. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable colleagues, I would like to say to this bill that I believe we are trying to produce a bending equal. But I would like to touch on some of the amendments. I'd like to ask the minister to answer here if he knows which hospital pharmacies are going to re-export the drugs, virtually. Which hospital pharmacies will re-export the drugs further. Secondly, I would like to ask where the Ministry of Health can be sure that, in the case of the Member's amendment, Indeed, the prices of biosimilars will be reduced by 30 per cent and a 40 per cent generic and that exporters of these medicines will not leave the market and will not strengthen the dominance of manufacturers of original medicines. This is a matter to be considered. I think you've all certainly gotten a lot of legal opinions and assessments and tables so that you can somehow navigate the complicated law and make the right decision. But this is the key. Since the amendment was made by the Ministry of Health, I would like to ask if any assessments were made and if the State Institute for Drug Control has commented on this, if there is any analysis to do so and the impact can be estimated. Otherwise, what I'm saying is, what's going on today is in the area of distribution, reexport, etc., it's just a distorted market. This is a distorted market where the competition authority does not enforce what it is supposed to enforce, and that is, it does not enforce deliveries to all pharmacies or to all distributors, so that all pharmacies have access to medicines. What we're dealing with here is the result of the competition authority not doing what it's supposed to do. So if we want the market to level up, then there will have to be a change in the Authority's competition policy, and then there will be a normal market that can be regulated. Thank you and I look forward to those answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u15	I thank Mr Hovorka. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u16	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, dear colleagues, I will try to follow the Rules of Procedure and not prolong this debate, because I am sure you are all waiting for the final vote. The issue of the Drug Act is very complex. I think we have all experienced this in recent weeks and months, when we have been overwhelmed by a number of sometimes very contradictory information, particularly on the amendments approved by the Health Committee after the second reading. The standard we approve has two basic objectives. One of them is clinical studies or legislation regarding clinical trials. No one's arguing with her, and she's very important. The other is really a matter of reporting. We were looking for a measure on the Health Committee here and here at second reading that would actually affect this issue, which we are talking about here, clearly. Various trips were sought, various amendments were tabled, and finally, the biggest support on the health committee had an amendment on which the Ministry of Health cooperated and was presented by colleague Běhounek, a colleague of Krákora and others, who are currently concerned with measures to prevent parallel reports. However, after we clearly supported him on the Health Committee in the Guarantee Committee, a number of different professional, pseudo-professional opinions, which were often supported by highly sophisticated legal opinions, which were often opposed to each other. [[12.50 hours]] I am convinced that at this point or at this point, we are not able to make a clear decision about which of these opinions are completely correct and which are not, and that we will probably have to take a certain risk. However, I would like to mention one risk, and that is the risk that we are not in conflict with this amendment with the competition legislation. And both my reports and the President of the Competition Authority have informed the Ministry of Health that there is a problem. But we, as MPs, did not get that opinion. I haven't even seen him public yet. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister whether he would inform us of this position, so that before the final vote we know whether we can raise our hand or not for the amendment. We as the KDU-ČSL club clearly support the objective and the subject of the amendment, but we would also like to know this position. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u17	Thank you, Mr Kaňkovský. And so far, the last duly entered into the general debate is Mr Leoš Heger. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I also hope that I will not go beyond the Rules of Procedure and that he will allow for some comments on some amendments. I'd start with what the previous speakers said or the last previous speaker said. As regards our own proposal for transpositional changes and reexports, we do not have a reservation of amendment after the proposed amendments. As far as the report is concerned, we can conclude that what Mrs Marková put on the KSČM here by her mouth is really a risky matter. I was there when a version was being prepared several years ago, which would have copied the Slovak language, and at that time the majority of legal opinion prevailed as negative and risky to the EU. As regards an amendment that tries to push through or rather suppress the support of a monopoly that is in relation between the manufacturer and the distributor, which leads to the delivery of certain medicines only to selected pharmacies, we support this proposal because we believe that in pharmacies, where the patient requires the drug, the medicine should be provided by the distributor. As regards the views of our club, only for doktor Skalický, who is on a business trip, I note that his amendments concerning the possibility to issue general measures for the Ministry of Health, even if the proposal was not issued by SÚKL etc., the conditions of qualification for sellers, so we will support both of these proposals as TOP 09 and the starosta. We have a problem with Professor Vyzula's amendment to reduce margins in generics and biosimilars. It is an amendment that has been promoted here by very hard and threatening words that anyone who does not support it will be regarded as a lobbyist who supports pharmaceutical companies. I also have to say that the proposal was submitted, on the one hand, without a thorough analysis, without the SÚKL's opinion. It was presented as an sticker because it concerns the Public Health Insurance Act, which has not been opened, and that, in our view, it brings at least certain risks to increase the shortage, especially those biosimiliars, because there is not enough experience to estimate whether or not certain medicines will be held and registered later than would be worth, thanks to the fact that it will not be beneficial for the manufacturer. The entry prices of drugs are relatively low in our country, so the reduction in biosimiliars and generics will still remain at the resulting level of low drug prices, as we have been used to in recent years. We get blamed sometimes. So the rhetoric that appeared, for example, in the resolution of the hospital association, which bears words that would almost deserve the 1950s, as we support the shameful margins and profits of the producers, is not entirely appropriate. There are two other suggestions I'll mention, and that's it. They are also presented as stickers, I must state. But since the practice has somehow been introduced here, we'll support them. The first is a dispensation fee in pharmacies, or some special performance. I'm not happy about it. This whole thing requires a thorough discussion. But the situation in pharmacies is getting worse at least because a number of expensive drugs have moved into hospital medications in the area of central medicine. Plus, as the drug prices go down, pharmacies' margins go down. So even the margin relationship, when it divides between manufacturers, distributors and pharmacies, needs to be reviewed at least in the future, and this amendment wants to recall it. Similarly, the last suggestion that the green star be officially identified as a pharmaceutical symbol, even if it is an adhesive, is also supported in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u19	I thank Mr Heger, who has been the last to be entered in the general debate so far. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no such person, I am done with the debate. I'm asking for final words. First, the Minister. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me just a few points to discuss this law and what has now been said here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. First to the law as a whole and to set up the system of preventing reexports. I fully support the fact that this proposal is quite mild in terms of disrupting the free movement of goods within the EU. It fully corresponds to EU law and takes advantage of the fact that EU law also allows patients to take measures in order to protect the health and life of patients to ensure sufficient medicinal products for patients in the Czech Republic. Here I am deeply convinced, and based on the legal analyses available to us, that the chosen solution is fully comfortable. And there are countries where they have chosen a much more drastic and radical form of solution. That's for the law as a whole. Then on to some of the suggestions that were made on the reexports. I have to say, if it goes through here that the Ministry will have two working days to intervene and a possible ban on reporters, I can't imagine that we will be able to intervene effectively. That would deny one of the fundamental principles of this law. I will also answer here, through Mr President, a question by Mr Kaňkovský regarding the amendment, the author of which is Mr Běhounek. I have to confirm here that I have received the opinion of the President of the Competition Authority that he has doubts that the approach chosen is okay. However, I was then informed by Mr Běhounek that he had spoken to the President and that he felt that this was a misunderstood mechanism. However, I must say here that doubts have been raised with regard to the amendment. [[13.00 hours]] As far as Mr Vyzula's amendment is concerned, I would like to make a few basic points about this. It is not true that central or biological drugs are extremely cheap in our country. This applies to common medicines available for common diseases. With these patent-protected drugs, there was a monopoly of companies that came up with it and could set the price level rather high. What we're introducing here, the discount, the moment the biosimilars come here, or let's call it a generic, which is similar, we get to 30 percent and we are not extreme within the European Union. Even much richer countries than the Czech Republic increase the discount even more significantly than the proposed 30%. I mean, if we don't do this, we're actually gambling here that we won't be able to provide patients with enough of these medicines, because the Czech health insurance system simply doesn't tighten financially to increase the amount of funds by 2 billion each year. The crown, which is the problem. There was a question as to whether we were analyzing it, whether we consulted with SÚKL or something. I must say that the amendment was also made in the context of what we discussed in the Health Committee in order to address the financial sustainability of biological treatment for Czech patients, and the proposal was made on the basis of a working group where representatives of the SÚKL sat, where representatives of the General Health Insurance Corporation who fully supported the proposal. So I am quite responsible here to say that this proposal aims to ensure that patients with the most serious diseases are treated financially. If we don't, we're gonna have a problem. Thank you for your support and I believe that we will vote according to the interests of Czech patients.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u21	Thank you, Minister. I ask about the final words of the rapporteurs, Mr Vyzula, or Mr Zahradník. Not interested. We will proceed to the vote on the amendments. I now ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee to introduce us to the voting procedure, then to present the various amendments and to give us his opinion on this. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me present to you the voting procedure approved by the Health Committee at the 40th meeting on 21 September 2016. As far as voting procedures are concerned, first of all, legislative technical adjustments have been made, but they have not been raised, so this item falls to us and we can focus directly on individual proposals. Firstly, we should vote together on proposals A1 to A7, A12, A14 to A19 and A21. These are the proposals that have been passed and have been approved by a resolution of the Health Committee. The next vote would concern the A20 proposal on its own. This has also been passed through the Health Committee's resolution. We would also vote on the proposal H, together with the proposals K3 to K6. Furthermore, we would vote on proposal B1, but it would be unvoted if proposal H was adopted. We would also vote on proposal B2 separately, B3 separately, B4 separately. Furthermore, we would vote on proposal C, but it would be impossible if one of the proposals H, B1, B3 or B4 were adopted. Furthermore, we should vote on proposal D3, but it would be unvoted if any of the proposals B4 or C are adopted. Furthermore, we should vote on proposal E, but it would be unvoted if one of the proposals H, B1, B3, B4, C or D3 were adopted. Furthermore, we should vote on the F1 proposal, but it would be unvoting if one of the proposals under H or B1, B3, B4, C, D3 or E were adopted. Furthermore, we should vote on proposal A13, but it would be unvoting if the F1 was adopted. A13 is once again the resolution of the Health Committee. Furthermore, we should vote on the J1 proposal, but it would be unvoting if the proposal under A12 was adopted. Furthermore, we should vote on the J2 proposal, but it would be unvoted if one of the proposals H, B1, C, E, F1 or K2 were adopted. Furthermore, we should vote separately on J4, then separately on J5, separately on J6, separately on J8, separately on J7, but this one would be unvoteable if the J8 proposal was adopted. Furthermore, we should vote on proposal K1, in the next vote on K2, which would be unvoted if one of the proposals H, B1, C, E, F1 or J2 were adopted. Furthermore, we should vote on the A8 proposal together with the A9 but it would be unvoted if the B4 proposal was adopted. Furthermore, we should vote on the A10 proposal together with the A11 but it would be unvoted if any of the proposals B3, C, E or F1 were adopted. Furthermore, we should vote on J3, but it would be impossible if anything except A20, K1 and J5 to J8 were accepted. That would be a single vote. Then we should vote on the proposal as a whole. A little more notes on the procedure. You may be surprised that some of the proposals are not in the voting procedure. Therefore, I would say that the amendments under D1, D2, F2, F3, the whole G proposal and the whole proposal I are unvoted because they are identical to the previously read proposal made by Mrs Pastuchová under letter C. Furthermore, C1 and C2 are identical to the designs D1, D2, F2 and F3, C4 is the same as I1, C7 is the same as G1 and I2, C8 is the same as G2, C9 to C11 are congruent to G3 to G5. The J9 proposal is also unvoting because it is identical to the J1 proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u23	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Soňa Marková is applying for the procedure. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u24	Thank you for the floor. Since, as I have said here, my amendment is comprehensive and solves the complex problem of reexports, I would ask for a third vote, that is, behind the A20 vote, before H, because it is clear that if those proposals were adopted, it would actually be my unvoteable one. But he's working this thing out comprehensively, so I think it would be cleaner for everyone to make it clear how he's taking the report, so that it's clear that there's gonna be a vote on it, because otherwise there's probably not gonna be a vote on it. So if it's possible for us to put the vote on E before H, that means the third vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u25	This is an amendment to the procedure of Mrs Soňa Marková, who wants to vote on her comprehensive amendment after point A20. Isn't that right? There's a request for everyone to check out. I'm signing you all off, and I'm asking you to sign up with your voting cards. We will vote first on the amendment to Mrs Marková's procedure, which wants her amendment to be voted after point A20. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 287; 159 Members and Members are registered, for 47, against 70. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore vote on the draft procedure, as the rapporteur has put it. Initiating vote on the draft procedure. Who's in? Who's against it? It is the voting order number 288, 160 Members are registered, for 130, against 3. The draft procedure has been accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u26	So we can proceed to item 1 of the vote. This concerns the resolution of the Health Committee and it is the proposals under points A1 to A7, A12, A14 to A19 and A21. These are mostly legislative technical modifications. A21 is modified efficiency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u27	The position of the guarantee committee? [[Recommendant.]] The Minister's position? [[Positive.]] Initiating vote on proposals A1 to A7, A12, A14 to A19 and A21. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 289 vote, 162 Members and Members signed up for 160, against none. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u28	The next item should also be the vote from the Health Committee resolution on the A20 proposal concerning misleading advertising for medicines.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u29	The position of the guarantee committee? [[Recommendant.]] The Minister's position? [[Unadvisable.]] Initiating A20 vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 290 vote, 162 Members and Members registered, for 112, against 40. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u30	We would also vote on Mr Běhounek's proposal and others under the heading "H', together with K3 through K6. [[President: Opinion?]] The Committee's opinion is a recommendation by a large majority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u31	The Minister's position? [[Positive.]] Initiating voting on proposals H together with K3 through K6. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 291 vote, 162 Members of Parliament signed up for 155, against none. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u32	We would also vote on Mr Skalický's proposal under number 4861, letter B1. But it is unvoteable because the proposal under the letter H was accepted. We also have Mr Skalický's proposal under heading 4862 under letter B2, which we should vote on. It concerns the professional competence of the seller, the type of accreditation. The Committee's opinion is - without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u33	The Minister's position? [[Unadvisable.]] Initiating vote on B2. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 292 vote, 163 Members and Members registered, for 57, against 91. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u34	Furthermore, we should consider the proposal by Mr B3 of Mr Skalický under number 4863 concerning the authorisation of the Ministry of Health to issue measures of a general nature. The Committee's opinion is - without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u35	The Minister's position? [[Unadvisable.]] I started the vote on Amendment B3. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the 293 vote, 164 Members and Members, for 67, against 84. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u36	Furthermore, we should also consider proposal B4 by Mr Skalický, which concerns setting a deadline of 15 working days between notification and planned distribution abroad. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u37	The Minister's position? [[Positive.]] Initiating vote on Amendment B4. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 294 vote, 164 Members and Members registered, for 159, against none. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u38	Furthermore, we have proposals under letter C, together with C1 through C11, but they are unvoted if one of H is adopted and it has been adopted, so C is not going to vote. Furthermore, we have a proposal under the letter D3 of Mr Zahradník, but it is unvoteable if one of the B4s is accepted. B4 was accepted, so it's unvoting. We also have Mrs Marková's proposal under the letter "E," but it is unvoting because the proposal was adopted under the letter "H," so we are not voting. We also have Mr Svoboda's proposal under letter F1, which is unvoting if H or another were adopted. H was accepted, so he's unvoting. We also have a proposal under A13. It's from the Health Committee's resolution. He'd be unvoting if he was F1... And we didn't vote for F1, so we can vote for him. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u39	The Minister's position on A13? [[Positive.]] I am opening the vote on Amendment A13. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a vote 295, registered 164 Members and Members, for 162, against none. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u40	We also have the proposals under the letter J of Mr Štětina. J1 is, however, unvoteable if proposal A12 is adopted. A12 has been accepted, so this proposal is unvoting. Furthermore, we have a proposal under the letter J2, which is also unvoting because the proposal under the letter H is accepted. We also have the J4 proposal, which we will vote on, Mr Štětina. It is a certificate of professional competence of the seller, so called. training. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u41	The Minister's position? [[Unadvisable.]] Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? The vote is 296, 164 Members and Members registered, for 79, against 75. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u42	Furthermore, we have a proposal under the letter J5, concerning the issue of indicative and critical restrictions. The position of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u43	The Minister's position? [[Unadvisable.]] I started the J5 vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 297 vote, 165 Members of Parliament signed up for 69, against 88. The proposal was not accepted either.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u44	We also have proposal J6, concerning the introduction of a dispensation fee in pharmaceutical care. The Committee's opinion is - without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u45	The Minister's position? [[Negative.]] I started the vote on J6. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the election of 298, registered 165 Members and Members, for 50, against 104. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u46	Furthermore, the proposal by Mr Štětina, Krákora, Hovorky 4912 under the letter J8. It concerns the use of the name of the pharmacy and the use of the pharmaceutical cross. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u47	The Minister's position? [[Unadvisable.]] Initiating J8 vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote 299, registered is 165 MEPs, for 69, against 80. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u48	We also have the J7 proposal, which is the older version of J8. It's unvoting if J8 was accepted, so we're voting for it. The Committee's opinion is - without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u49	The Minister's position? [[Negative.]] Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 300 vote, 165 Members of Parliament registered, for 50, against 103. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u50	We also have the proposal of K1 of Mr Vyzula under number 4913 concerning the prices of biosimilars and generics. The opinion of the Committee was without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u51	The Minister's position? [[Positive.]] Initiating K1 vote. Who's in? Who's against it? It is voting number 301, 165 Members are registered, for 131, against 12. The motion wasn't... it was accepted, sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u52	Furthermore, we have the K2 proposal, but it is unvoting because the H proposal was adopted. We also have the proposals A8 and A9 from the Health Committee resolution. It would be unvoted if B4 was accepted, but B4... yes, B4 was accepted, so this K2 proposal is unvoted. Then we have... [[President: A10.]] Proposal A10, yes, sorry. Okay, I'm already caught up. Proposal A10 plus A11 would be unvoting if B3, C, E or F1 were accepted. Proposal B3 was not accepted, E, F we did not vote, so we should vote on it. So the committee's position is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u53	The Minister's position? [[Positive.]] I am opening the vote on Amendments A10 and A11. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 302, registered 166 Members, for 161, against one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u54	And in the last vote, the proposal under the letter J3 of Mr Štětina number 4526/3. It would be unvoted if the A20 or K1 were accepted. The K1 proposal was accepted, so it's unvoting. So, Mr President, we should have all the proposals voted on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-003-188.u55	Thank you. All proposals have therefore been voted on, and we will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government Bill amending Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts, as amended, and Act No. 234/2014 Coll., on Civil Service, as amended, pursuant to House Press No. 706, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." [[Act on Medicines]] The rapporteur's position? [[Positive.]] The Minister's position? [[Positive.]] I am opening the vote on the bill as a whole. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 303; 166 Members and Members are registered, for 125, against 5. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. [[Rapporteur: Thank you.]] The next item is the item
