ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-005-217.u1	217. Report on the Environment of the Czech Republic in 2014 /house print 667/ I will ask the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec to take his seat at the rapporteur's table, and Mr Josef Nekl, who is the rapporteur of this press, to take his seat at the rapporteur's table. This House Press discussed the Committee on the Environment, whose resolution was delivered as House Press 667/1. I now ask the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec to take the floor on this press. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-005-217.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, don't worry. I mean, I took the whole message, but I'm only gonna read her half, so it's only about 96 pages... That's what I scared the writing lady. [[Big noise in the hall. The President interrupts the speaker]] .
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-005-217.u3	I will ask the House for peace, Minister, before you have the floor. Indeed, who is discussing something other than the report on the environment, let him bring the discussion into the front room so that peace is needed here. Thank you. You may proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-005-217.u4	Thank you for your support, Mr President. I would like to introduce you to the material that you know well because, first of all, you certainly got it in electronic form. It is a material which this House discusses regularly, i.e. the report on the state of the environment of the Czech Republic, in this case in 2014. The report, as you know, is always an important source of information on the state and development of the environment in the Czech Republic, including international comparisons. The report contains a set of 42 key indicators including their evaluation and, on the basis of the recommendations of the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic from last year, a new part of the report is also a separate sub-chapter dedicated to old environmental loads and supplemented with data on the level of air pollution by so-called ultra-fine particles based on available data. The report was approved by the Government on 20 November last year and subsequently discussed and approved by the Committee on the Environment on 13 January. It has also been discussed and approved by the Committee on Territorial Development, Public Administration and the Environment of the Senate. She was discussed yesterday at the Senate plenary session. The report, as I was saying, has also been distributed electronically to you. This is the dry language of the official language and now a few specific information, which you must have read there, and I would just like to emphasise. There's good news, and there's worse news. The worse news and the main report is that the state of the environment in 2014 has still not been satisfactory and has stopped in some way positive trends in previous years, even though the negative impact of the national economy on the environment is falling. The reason for this is, to a large extent, that the potential of the major measures that have been taken in recent years has been quite exhausted. And the reason for the current development of the environment is the increasing importance and influence of household consumption. The fundamental problem of the environment of the Czech Republic is, and this does not change in comparison with previous years, poor air quality especially in the Moravian-Silesian and Ústí Region. Heating of households, especially in small houses, is essential factors that affect air quality. Then it has a negative effect on the right. [[11.30 hours]] Although the amount of discharged pollution in the water area has decreased from point sources, surface water quality is improving, but it only improves slowly. This is linked to the continuing significant pollution of water resources from agricultural activity. This pollution is also affected by the large area of intensively managed arable land. The good news is that the material and energy performance of the economy is still falling. The importance of coal-fired power plants is gradually reduced, while the share of nuclear energy and renewable resources is increasing. As a result of these positive trends, greenhouse gas emissions and pollutant emissions are declining. The good news is that the share of renewable resources in energy consumption in transport is increasing. But the use of alternative fuels is still relatively negligible. The individualisation of passenger transport is also halted and, on the contrary, there is a favourable increase in the importance of public transport. Public expenditure increased significantly in 2014 to protect the environment, especially from the state budget and due to significant acceleration measures, which we also adopted from the Operational Programme Environment. Finally, colleagues, colleagues. I firmly believe that we will see some more positive trends already in 2015. However, we must realise that the influence of individual measures has great inertia. It manifests itself over many years. And if we are launching key projects today, such as boiler subsidies for heating households or others, the effect will, of course, manifest itself. I hope that it will even be very significant, but we can only expect this in 2016 or 2017 until, say, the potential of this measure is really significant throughout the Czech Republic. So I hope that in the next period I will be able to tell you - or possibly some of my successors - better reports on the state of the environment in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-005-217.u5	Thank you, Minister of the Environment, Richard Brabco. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, Mr Josef Nekl, to inform us of the committee's deliberations and to present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-005-217.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, before I read the resolution of the Committee on the Environment, I would like, as rapporteur, to inform you of some of the things that the Minister said and stressed in his speech, but in order to realise what we live in and what we can influence, I would add some figures. Please don't think of it as haunting, but consider it a fact. As has already been said, the report is based on the law on the right of citizens to information on the environment. Here I must say that the Committee on the Environment has assessed this report positively both on the part of the processing and on the part of the content, such as that it is understandable, well divided. As the Minister pointed out, there have been added some new chapters and some new sub-chapters, so it is a more detailed breakdown, and therefore everyone who is interested in the environment can better focus on the environmental impacts of the current world. Another point that the Committee on the Environment assessed very favorably is that the Ministry of the Environment heard the request of the Committee on the Environment and added this 220-page report with annexes and tables on the environmental reports for each region of the Czech Republic, which made the report clear. Everyone can see the way they live in their country. Now, about the trends. As has been said, the situation is not satisfactory. Unfortunately, the trend of improving the environment from previous years has stopped - it has been justified by the Minister. And it was also justified that, although the impact of the national economy on the environment is falling, yet an increasing impact is an impact from households. The main problem is households, transport, heating and such things. This implies, and these are the numbers that - I say, I don't want to scare, but in the report it is that 25 percent of our country's population is exposed to excess PM10 particles, which is significant, etc., which contributes to increasing mortality and premature deaths. Statistically, it is captured - about 5,500 citizens a year. More than 50 percent of our country's citizens live in areas where acceptable levels of carcinogenic substances, especially benzopyrene, are exceeded. More than 50 percent. The situation in surface water quality is also improving very slowly. It was said here - the influence of agriculture and so on. On the other hand, we know that more than 20 per cent or 20 per cent of households are not yet connected to the sewerage that is finished by the sewage treatment plant. I think that this trend will gradually improve, because - I will predate a possible report for 2016 - this year the National Programme under the State Environmental Fund also envisages cleaning plants for smaller municipalities that have not been able to achieve this so far. Interesting information and also something that tells us that the population of more common species of birds and animals in our environment has been declining in the long term from 1982 to 2014. All species decreased by 7,6 %, common species by 18 % and, for example, forest birds by 27,5 ♪♪♪%. And significant fragmentation of the landscape, especially by transport and construction of complexes in green meadow, continues. The built-up area now occupies less than 11 percent of the territory of the Czech Republic and the area was 2 441 hectares in 2014. It's a lot less than it was before. That's where it went to tens of thousands, but it's still a big deal after all. Pros. The impact of the national economy on the environment is declining mainly due to a decrease in energy performance. Transport has been mentioned here that the share of individual transport in favour of public transport is falling, but still the volume of truck transport is increasing, which affects not only air quality but also noise levels in residential areas. The point is that it stagnates waste production, including municipal waste. The waste management is dominated by material use, which is less than 80 per cent, although landfilling is 10,5 per cent, but the material use of municipal waste has increased to 35 per cent and I believe that it will grow further thanks to good sorting and all incentives. It was said that environmental protection expenditure increased by CZK 12,5 billion in 2014, which is almost 50 percent higher, with the State Environmental Fund and all the programmes leading to this being significantly reinforced. So we discussed this in detail on the committee. There were numerous questions and detailed analyses of, for example, the long-distance transfer of PM2+ from Poland to Ostrava, which amounts to virtually 40 percent of the pollution in this area. It was said that a joint project with the Polish party, which, unfortunately, the current Polish government has stopped, was being developed, and so far it is not facing this. An action plan to reduce the environmental impact of transport was also discussed. There was talk of air protection in connection with the boiler subsidies that had just started. And here was discussed especially the problem of the quality of heating, i.e. the quality of brown coal, as well as the prices of this quality boiler heater and impact on socially weaker families. Another problem that was very discussed there was water retention in the landscape. The discussion also touched on the warning decline of species in nature. Great discussions have also developed to improve agricultural land in particular on the fact that biomass is disappearing from the soil, that green fertilisers are not ploughing, etc. Therefore, there were frequent questions about close cooperation between the Ministry of the Environment with the Ministry of Agriculture and with the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Following all these discussions, the Committee adopted a resolution from the 28th meeting of the Committee on the Environment of 13 January, when it decided that, following the justification of the Deputy Minister of the Environment of the Engineer Ladislav Smrž and the report by Mr Josef Nekl and after the debate, the Committee on the Environment recommends the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament to take note of the report on the environment of the Czech Republic in 2014, instructs me, as rapporteur, to familiarise the House with this resolution and instructs the Chair of the Committee to introduce this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-005-217.u7	I thank the rapporteur for the report on the subject and I am opening a general debate in which I have Mr Jan Zahradník's application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-005-217.u8	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to comment on this Report on the Environment in 2014 as a representative of the opposition Civic Democratic Party. Both the Minister and the rapporteur have given quite a briefing to the House plenary on the structure of the report. I don't think there's anything to be said here. It is a traditional curriculum, a traditional scheme into which new, current data are inserted, which has been collected for a given year. I have no great reservation here, perhaps only that I am still waiting for the time to run out and, finally, the environmental report will also be discussed in detail in this year's report on the state of the environment, e.g. In Sumava National Park, which still doesn't happen. Probably the interval that's defined there is still being extended somehow, or too long. I must say that I supported the report and the debate on the committee. I've quite gotten the right answers. Here's one thing I'd like to mention. And that thing is that I would like to draw attention to the main message of the report, which is the sentence that the state of the environment was not satisfactory in 2014. I understand the arguments put forward by the Minister and, above all, the rapporteur here, that it is about half-and-half, some criteria are improving, others are getting a little worse. But to say that the state of the environment is not satisfactory, I think it is a great deal to mess with reality. Remember what the environment was like, what his condition was like at the end of the Communist government. Air that couldn't breathe in the cities, contaminated, polluted rivers. Garbage that wasn't dealt with. And here I think there's been a huge improvement, and we can quite be satisfied with how the environment is developing. It is possible that this sentence will sound like paradise music for some environmental NGOs. Just when the environment isn't satisfactory, there's a huge field, a huge space for its constant improvement, for the constant pressure to make the so-called. its improvement. Air and climate. We've been talking here for a very long time yesterday about the Air Protection Act and its specific aspects, among other things. also about how within it the Ministry wants to break home freedom. There's water management, water quality. We're talking about a water problem. We have seen an increase in drought and the problems that arise from it. I don't think environmentalists here are exactly friends with the solution, dealing with the situation. All the ideas on how to accumulate water in the landscape come across their resistance, whether it is a resistance to building natural tanks in Sumava and restoring them, or whether it is their resistance to building or protecting areas for any reservoirs that could hold water from us when massive drought occurs. Chapter nature. In total, there is an indication of how many possible systems have been protected. Once again, environmentalists will have the opportunity, including environmentalists in the European Commission, to increase the Natura 2000 area. It says here that almost 21 percent of the total area is protected by the Natura system. This is a huge area and I think that the possibility of development and various development activities, whether municipal or business, is significantly blocked throughout the territory. A statement about forests. Of course, there is talk of the forests of the farm, but, of course, in the report, as I have already said, it is forgotten about forests in the protected National Park of Šumava, which are getting very significant wounds. Land and landscape. Colleague Nekl mentioned the ongoing process of fragmentation of the landscape by transport. I think that we are also witnessing, on the contrary, that there is a solution to these problems in the context of land adjustments, which I would like to greatly appreciate, there is a consolidation of certain territorial units, a solution to availability, without violating the natural nature of these territories. Thus, roads are built to make the land available, but they do not disturb the landscape structure. Agriculture, I think the mention here is appropriate. Industry and energy, well, once again, environmental activists will have the opportunity to improve our environment, which, as you say, is unsatisfactory, by increasing, they will push for constant increases in the limits that limit our industry's competitiveness. Right. We are witnessing the enormous negative impact that the amendment to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, the EIA, has on what can currently be built in our country. And almost nothing can be built. All the EIAs that were approved before 2004 are questioned, and the transport constructions on which they were exposed are actually not moving from the site. This, too, should be mentioned as a negative influence of fundamental efforts to protect nature, which are, in particular, ecological non-profit organisations. wastes and material flows. A new waste law is about to tighten significantly. The European Union is planning to introduce a circular economy, which will further tighten the limits on waste management very significantly. Moreover, in some aspects, we are tougher on ourselves than the European Union requires of us. While the EU proposal envisages the possibility of landfilling 10 percent of possible waste, we have imposed a ban on landfilling since 2024. Yeah, you might say we're gonna burn the garbage. But realize that we do not have sufficient incinerator capacity, and any new incinerator we want to build, so its supporters, who will want to build it as a business plan, will encounter an almost huge gigantic barrier to the environmental impact assessment law, which can stop it for a long time and make it impossible. The question of funding, of course, is reduced here. In the State Environmental Fund, I have seen budgets cut. In doing so, it is always argued a little bit that the state of the environment is improving, so the consumption of finance on its maintenance is getting lower and lower. I don't really get it together. I'm critical here. I have one more little reminder, and it's that you're still writing about steam power plants. But you don't count nuclear power plants among them. The nuclear power plant, as we all know, is a steam plant where steam is produced not by burning coal, but by drowning nuclear reactions. So next time, please fix it. I recommended to our club that we vote in favour of taking note. [[11.50 hours]] Now I'd like to get back to one thing. About a year ago, when we discussed this report in 2013, I suggested and pointed out whether it would be impossible to continue or return to the tradition of issuing environmental reports in individual regions. That's what finally happened. The amendment to Act No. 123/1998 Coll., which was approved last year, was precisely the Ministry's obligation to issue these reports. And so the Ministry has released environmental reports in individual regions for the first time since 2010. Here I must, even though I'm here by the Minister as an important critic of his ministry and his personally as the proposer, here I must commend the Ministry, thank him for this activity. Environmental reports in individual regions are new, bringing a new structure. It is not only and only the data from the environmental report of the Czech Republic, there are cross-border comparisons in terms of economic impact, or in terms of data and data relating to the environment. So here I would like to express my appreciation and gratitude to the Ministry and the Minister. So we will vote positively if we take note and thank the Ministry for the environmental reports. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-005-217.u9	I thank Mr Jan Zahradník. That was the only one registered in writing. I now see Mr Leoš Heger, who has entered into the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-005-217.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, I would like to make a few comments on this report, which is more political than such a technical character. I am not going to negate or criticize the report, rather just point out some of the problems that may last forever, the balance of what is beneficial for human and economic life and what is beneficial for the environment. As you all know from the light media hysteria, although quite well-founded, we have a new dangerous agent in the world, a zika virus that spreads mosquitoes. The mosquito that spreads it does not exist here in Europe except for some extremely rare exceptions, but it is very intensive to examine whether one species that occurs in the southern parts of our country is by chance not a carrier, which is such a nice example of the difficult balanceable situation. And connected with how the climate is changing and how much attention has been transferred from the area of flood protection to the area of protection against possible approaching droughts, so it is very often echoing backwards how it is necessary for nature to absorb water, to hold it in the landscape, and as it is necessary for smaller areas to hold the water. Which I always think of as swamps in South Moravia and South Bohemia that used to be. And it has a little bit to do with it, because the swamps in earlier times, a few centuries ago, have led to the occurrence of malaria in those southern parts of the Czech Republic, which, fortunately, is no longer here with us, and only cases that are known appear in people who come from abroad. So the risk, if there was too much water back here, and in an inappropriate concentration of one or an inappropriate occurrence of one that promotes mosquitoes, there could be a certain risk. This has to do with quite an interesting development, which does not belong in our Republic as much as in the global view that occurs from time to time on such occasions, and that is the debate about whether DDT has benefited humanity or harmed it. This is what happened thirty forty years ago, when DDT was called a device that is dangerous for nature and life cycles, so it was put into a curse and once every few years a reflection has appeared, what is actually better especially for developing countries, it does not concern us, whether the use of this DDT with all the risks it may have and which are sometimes easily questioned, or the risk of malaria. So in the case of the Zika virus, the debates have reappeared. I am, of course, no great opponent of activists who fight for the environment. It needs to be balanced with other currents in society. So an episode like a wolf pops up somewhere and it's protected and it tore up some sheep, so it's probably tolerable. Surely it wouldn't be tolerable if wolves were running around in every forest and no one could safely go into nature. Well, that's extremes. But these mosquitoes are a risk, and I wanted to point it out. Otherwise, I am not opposed to the report, so as to make it very clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-005-217.u11	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-005-217.u12	If possible, Mr President, since no one is logged in, it is proper.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-005-217.u13	Could be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-005-217.u14	Thank you. But I'm gonna try to walk in in those two minutes. I have no problem voting in favour of this report in accordance with the recommendation of Mr Zahradník, even if it is a report that is actually two years old and reflects something that did not happen last year. But this is the long-term pain of the Chamber of Deputies discussing reports on the activities of various organizations or situations in individual sectors of life of citizens in the Czech Republic backwards, sometimes more than two years old, given how the House is flooded with often senseless bills. However, I wanted to draw attention to a matter that is up to date and which is extremely related to the environment, which was mentioned here by my previous speakers and concerns the lack of water and the problem of drought in the Czech Republic. Because there is increasingly an effort to build dams in the Czech Republic. To build a dam means to make a change that is irreversible in the future. Such a matter should really be thought through in every way. And if there is an option, if it is to keep water in a landscape that would not force us to build a dam, then we should go with the option, which will not cause irreversible changes from the perspective of future generations and at all life or the existence of nature in the Czech Republic. I've learned that he's doing well - or there's a study that's supposed to build a dam on Berounka. Today I will interpel the Minister of Agriculture, who is in charge of this matter. I would like to appeal to you, Minister, and to the Czech Government to build dams only if there is no alternative solution. I think we should primarily explore the landscape in terms of the possibilities of pond renewal. The Czech Republic has really lost tens of thousands of ponds and water areas in the past. The Czech Republic also, by building and doing a lot to protect the environment, at the moment it built sewage treatment plants that were not here in the past, the quality of the water itself has improved greatly, but we have little water in the soil, because we are pulling it from households by collecting waste water treatment plants, into streams, rivers and into the sea. [[12.00 hours]] Very quickly with us - we are a roof, we are a European divorce, no river actually flows to us, but they all flow away from us and we have also caused this step to quickly dispose of water in the Czech Republic. Therefore, I think it is extremely important in terms of environmental protection, but also in terms of the functioning of agriculture, which has also been mentioned here, to seek, rather than at all costs, the construction of dams and investment in the order of tens of billions of crowns into individual concrete dams, to discuss the possibilities of a fundamental - fundamental - investment contribution of taxpayers' money to the area of restoration of ponds. Cleaning up the pond today is an incredible cost, and it doesn't really pay anybody, because it's not economically interesting. But in terms of nature conservation, it's of great importance. I wanted to call on you, Minister, to consider options with your colleague in the government, with the Minister of Agriculture, and force yourself into a solution before you decide to build dams. I think that the Czech Republic and the protection of the environment in a reasonable sense deserve this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-005-217.u15	Thank you. I do not have any more applications for the general debate, so I am ending the general debate. I will ask the Minister or the rapporteur whether they want the final word after the general debate. That's right. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-005-217.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr. Chairman. I'm just going to respond quickly to the stimuli. Thank you for them. Yesterday I spoke for quite a long time about this report in the Senate and there were similar challenges. I would like to reassure Mr Zahradník by your means - and otherwise I also thank my colleague by your means, and then thank him without your means, Mr President, for the appreciation of regional reports. I'm sure I'll have that statement signed later when my colleague Zahradník complimented me. But I want to make sure that we are very intensive about things like the waste management plan. And the issue, which is also very important, has become a little ideological, and I reject it as ideological, because it is purely factual, and that is what it takes to allocate between recycling, sorting waste as a priority, prevention and incineration. In our waste management plan, we clearly see that there is free capacity here, which could basically be one-time the existing capacity of incinerators in the Czech Republic, however not a priority for us, but are an appropriate addition to what will then happen after 2024, when the possibility of landfilling recyclable and otherwise exploitable waste actually ends. I should also like to assure my colleague Bendl by your means, Mr President, and I should have said in the introductory words that the issue of water retention in the landscape and drought is at least the second, if not the first, most serious problem of the environment, or the quality of life in the Czech Republic, that we perceive him this way and that we are already taking a number of measures today. And quite rightly, my colleague Bendl said precisely the measures relating to the restoration of smaller water resources such as ponds, because it is the fastest with wetlands, the setting up of various grass bands, retention tanks etc., just the cheapest and relatively fastest we can do, because each dam, regardless of the fact that it is of course expensive, so in addition its preparation and implementation is calculated over a period of ten or more years. And that's something that has such enormous inertia that, of course, doesn't help in the area of the drought right now. So we're definitely going to do the measures he mentioned, we're going to do it, we're going to do it. I have to say in particular the example that Mr Bendl wants to ask. Yesterday I also noticed it somewhere in the media, and I really can't imagine this activity on Křivoklátsko with a 40-metre dam and basically destroying the river Berounka, as we know it today, even though the river Berounka is regulated. It is clear that the municipalities under Beroun would probably not have a problem with this in the lower stream, on the other hand, the municipalities on the upper stream of Berounky would consider it barbaric. So, of course, there is a protected landscape area of Křivoklátsko. We discussed four possible dams in the government last week. The government took note of their preparation, two were larger, two were rather smaller. We're always following that water tank generator that's been prepped for a long time. Today it contains 65 territories for future accumulation of surface waters. The Ministry of Agriculture may add new areas to the agreement there, but each area is always judged according to this, and I want to assure you all, not only to Mr Bendl, that the Ministry of the Environment always very clearly defines its law, which we have there, in order to assess whether we can really choose another option. The dams are definitely a complement to us, but I'm sure it shouldn't be like we're just going this way. Moreover, the journey is long and very expensive, but in some cases it is necessary. So, however, there's a whole range of nature's close measures, and we have huge reserves in the potential of agricultural and forest land to maintain water, because this land holds relatively little. And that's where we have the greatest potential possible. So thank you for the suggestions. For my colleague, the Zahradník, also, through you. Yes, you're right, a nuclear power plant is actually a steam plant. I'm sure I'll tell my colleagues, and next time it'll be as it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-005-217.u17	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur does not want the final word. I am opening up a detailed debate. I will ask the rapporteur to refer to the resolution that he has already made in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-005-217.u18	Yes, thank you, Mr President. I refer to the resolution of the 28th meeting of the Committee on the Environment, when it recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to take note of the report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-005-217.u19	Yes. Thank you, rapporteur. Furthermore, I do not see anyone in the detailed debate, so I am ending the detailed debate. Final words? Not interested. In that case, we will vote. The rapporteur has proposed a resolution that the Chamber of Deputies takes note of this report. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees with this motion for a resolution to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting time is 94, registered 139, for 123, against no one. This proposal has been adopted, and I conclude on this point. Let's continue with the point.
