ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-044-07-000-000.u1	Madam, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 44th session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. I'd like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, let me know who's applying for a replacement card. I would like to inform you that the reasons for not taking part in the proceedings were asked by the following Members: Hamáček Jan without giving a reason, Adamec Ivan from 13 hours without giving a reason, Adámek František from 14.30 Kasal David, Aulická Jírovcová Hana within 11 hours Milan Váhalová, Bartošek Dana working Zelienková, Kristýna Antonín foreign travel, Adam Martin within 13 hours Rykala Urban, Černoch Marek foreign travel, Schwarz Anna foreign travel, Farskýý Jan foreign path, Fichtner Matěj foreign travel, Holík Pavel foreign travel, Jiří Vítězslav health Zemánek, Janulík Miloslava Vondráček Zlatuška, Plíšek Jiří from 14.30 working šrámek, šidlo Igor Radek Vozka, Heger Leoš within 10 Helena Jiří Vlastimil, Pavera Karel. The following members of the government apologize for today's meeting: Sobotka Bohuslav between 11:45 and 14:00 working reasons, Babiš Andrej working reasons, Bělobrádek Pavel working reasons, Brabec Richard foreign trip, Dienstbier Jiří working reasons, chovanec Milan within 11 hours working reasons, Jurečka Marian working reasons, Mládek Jan foreign trip, Němeček Svatopluk zahraniční cesta, Pelikán Robert foreign trip, Valachová Kateřina working reasons, Zaorálek Lubomír foreign trip. That was the introduction. At this point, we should be dealing with written interpelations, but given that there is an insufficient number of Members present... [[Members argue that it is possible to interpelate.]] Yes, I just want to call on the club presidents to call on their Members to be present in the hall so that we can continue the negotiations. Now... [[Member Kováčik says the KSČM Members are here.]] Yes, Mr President, I see it, I mean it in general, I do not want to name it specifically here. At this time, a total of nine responses were submitted on the agenda of the 44th session of the Chamber of Deputies to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and for this reason asked for their inclusion on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. Last Thursday we dealt with three of them, we have six answers left to discuss. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: "Unless an Interpelling Member is present at a meeting of the House, there shall be no debate on the response to its intervention, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or further discuss it.' We will therefore now proceed to discuss the answers to the written interpelations.
