ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-013-051.u1	51. Members Anna Putnová's proposal, Karel Schwarzenberg, Vlasta Bohdalová, Helena Langšádlová, František Vácha, Augustin Karel Andrle Sylor, Jana Fischerová, Bohuslav Svoboda, Zbyněk Stanjura, Věra Kovářová, Jan Zahradník, Markéta Wernerová and Jaroslav Lobkowicz on the issue of the Act amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on preschool, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education (school law), as amended and Act No. 563/2004 Coll., on pedagogical workers and on the amendment of certain laws (the Education Worker Act), as amended /house print 278/ - first reading I thank Mrs Anna Putnová, who is the plaintiff's representative, for taking the position at the rapporteur's table, and I will ask my colleague Kořenko, who is also in his place. I still note that the Government's position has been delivered as Parliamentary Press 278/1. I now ask Mrs Anna Putnová to present the proposal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-013-051.u2	Good afternoon, Mr President -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-013-051.u3	I'll cut you off before you start. Please, fellow Members, my colleague, for peace so that the plaintiffs can present this text. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-013-051.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Once again, good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I'm presenting an amendment to the school law, which has quite a long history. Its discussion in 2013 prevented early elections, so we submitted this amendment for the second time in July 2014. So now he's coming on the show, and I'd like to introduce you to the principle of a modified novel. These are Czech schools without borders, which is about supporting children from mixed marriages, teaching them, developing their skills, as well as supporting children whose parents work abroad for a long time. Around two million Czech national citizens or foreign citizens of Czech origin live abroad. It is obvious that from the perspective of the Czech Republic it is desirable for them to deepen their belonging to the Czech Republic. They offer such an option abroad. Czech schools. I'll tell you what their current legislation is. The Czech schools can be described as institutions or activities that ensure the preservation of the knowledge of Czech language and Czech realities abroad, which would allow them to return to the Czech Republic in the future, or to graduate from Czech university, to apply to the labour market or to the Czech Republic. otherwise participate in economic or cultural life in the Czech Republic. In particular, these are nine Czech schools without borders, which are also regional associations, coordinated by the Czech civic association Czech school without borders. They are followed by a network of cooperating schools, which also teach Czech language and Czech reality, but to a lesser extent than required by the educational programme of Czech schools without borders, therefore they are not members of this civic association and do not use the name of Czech school without borders. The concept of the Czech School without Borders was established in Paris in 2003 and gradually spread to other cities. It covers schools, which are generally non-profit organisations, civil associations under the law of the State of their operation. At the same time, they are registered by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as regional associations, which makes it clear that The Ministry of Foreign Affairs sees them as entities whose activity is needed, beneficial for the image of the Czech Republic abroad. The main goal of Czech schools without borders is to educate the Czech-speaking young generation growing up abroad, which will be able to read and write not only in adulthood, but also to maintain awareness of their roots and a sense of belonging to the Czech nation and the Czech Republic. Deep knowledge of Czech will be a good motivation for her to maintain relations with the country of her origin. The Czech School without Borders thus contributes to strengthening Czech identity in a changing globalised world. Czech schools without borders are now funded by donations from private sources from sponsors, especially from parents of children, from public sources from the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports under Art. Annex No 2 (13) 2 Government Order on the Conservation of Cultural Heritage abroad of 13 June 2012 No. 414 and also the Ministry of Foreign Affairs pursuant to the Government Resolution on the Conservation of Cultural Heritage abroad of 13 June 2012 No. 414. Last but not least, the Czech centres and representative offices are also involved in funding, which provide teaching facilities and promote the activities of schools. [[16.10 hours]] Czech schools without borders teach according to their own educational programme called The Gate of Languages open, which is within the scope of the requirements of the National Programme of Education. This concept of education is intended for children from 18 months to 15 years of age, who come from a bilingual environment. Education is divided into preschool education and school education. Preschool education for the smallest children is divided into three age categories. In the first category, the youngest children from 18 months to 3 years are usually devoted to the Czech language at least once a week for one hour. Other categories are children from 3 to 6 years of age, who learn at least once a week for two hours, and the last categories are schoolchildren who learn four hours a week. Preschool education for children under 6 years of age is focused on understanding the Czech language, improving vocabulary and expressive skills through music, drawing, listening to stories, playing games that have a educational character. The schoolchildren I am talking about fulfill their daily educational duty at a foreign school and, within the Czech schools without borders, they learn Czech language, literature, history, geography of Czech countries according to the Czech school's educational programme without borders, which was approved in August 2010. It is therefore Saturday's school. This programme was recommended and found in accordance with the National Education Programme by the Research Institute. Teaching in schools of the Czech School without Borders is realized by at least one pedagogical worker at every stage.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-013-051.u5	I, my colleague, will interrupt you once more and ask the House for peace again. On both the left and right sides of the House. [[No response.]] I'm serious. And if you're discussing something else, it's in the foyer. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-013-051.u6	This pedagogical worker is designated as a guarantor who assumes responsibility for the level of teaching at a given level. The school tutor guarantee for first and second degree is ideally a graduate of the field of Czech language and literature, for first degree it can also be a teacher for first degree. In addition to fully qualified teachers ideally with long-term experience, students of higher education or philosophy faculties, or workers with other education, such as graduates of artistic, music and art disciplines, participate in teaching. It is clear that the outlined concept of Czech schools without borders supports Czech identity and develops Czech roots in children. They develop them where they live temporarily and permanently abroad and contribute to the expansion of the Czech language and culture by also talking about their experiences, abilities, what they experienced in Saturday's school at their home schools. The problem is that this meritful activity, which is essentially a public service, does not have the necessary legal anchoring or stable sources of funding. I therefore move on to the principles of the proposed legislation. In view of the above, it seems necessary to establish the status of providers of the above-mentioned education abroad in the Czech legal order while integrating them into public funding. That's the point of the change. In general, it is therefore assumed that the introduction of a new school facility, namely an educational establishment abroad, for which its legal status, including relations with representative offices, will be regulated in essential respects, and the title for funding from the state budget will be enshrined. This will make use of existing modifications to the Institute of Interested Education. The amendment does not change the institute itself, as enshrined in the Czech legal order, only extends the list of equipment that falls under it. The activity of the educational establishment abroad will be partly financed from the state budget, but following the proven expenditure of the statutory appropriations established in the previous year, thereby ensuring that the State will not bear the costs of the so-called. Pilot operation. The financing carried out on a normative basis, which envisages certain average costs, appears to be highly feasible. The draft law is consistent with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic as well as with the policy of helping citizens of the Czech Republic abroad, as well as with the policy of promoting the preservation of Czech culture and education. The bill does not constitute a significant burden on the state budget. These are the orders of tens of millions of crowns. If funds were provided to all nine schools to date, the qualitative estimate we made based on the calculation of the first Czech school without borders in Paris is 17 million a year. I believe that this is an adjustment that would very much support and help stabilise the institutions that provide Czech education, deepen Czech identity in children, and I would be very happy if you would allow us to discuss the details of this amendment at second reading. I am also reporting with my priority right after the reporting report to the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-013-051.u7	All right, colleague. Now, the rapporteur, Petr Kořenek, who is the rapporteur for first reading. And if I can only comment, the rapporteur and the plaintiffs have priority rights only those who have the right of priority by law, that is to say, ministers. Unfortunately, the other plaintiffs do not have that right. But of course I'm registering your application before Mrs Fischerová's application. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-013-051.u8	Hello again. Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor. I'm gonna try to be brief, 'cause the big deal is down here. The truth is, I personally visited a school in London where I met her operation, so maybe that makes it easier for me to look. The truth is that improving funding here is certainly important, but I see it as a fundamental problem that we are getting into Act 561/2004 as amended, which is currently open and where we are dealing with financing. That is the question of whether this could not be dealt with by the amendment on this very occasion. However, I think it has more problems. One thing is that we are putting into law 561/2004, school law, new paragraphs that characterize educational establishments abroad, but also these shortcomings are highlighted by the government report, which gave a dissenting opinion precisely in the fact that this is a rather imperfect legislative proposal. But what I see as fundamental is that adjusting funding under Law 561 is quite a problem, because even today it participates in the financing of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and I think it should stay that way. It should certainly not be that only the Ministry of Education should be burdened with this funding, because the funds are simply not in the Ministry. Another legislative problem I see in the fact that if we talk about financing educational facilities abroad, I personally believe that this belongs to Act 306/1999 Coll., on granting subsidies to private schools, pre-school and school establishments, as amended. So I see the shortcomings here, but I repeat once again that the idea is very God-like, necessary, and I think that there is also a need to have a wider debate on this, which should be held on the committee and, if necessary, at second reading. That's all on my side so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-013-051.u9	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a debate in which Mrs Semelová is the first to join, then Mrs Putnová and Mrs Fischerová. Before I give the floor to Mrs Semelová, I will read the apology of Mr Josef Šenfeld, who has been apologizing since 16.50. Please, Madame, you have the floor in an open general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-013-051.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment introduces a new school facility, an educational establishment abroad, for which its legal status, including relations with representative offices, is to be regulated. Educational facilities abroad can be both Czech and foreign legal entities. It is not expected to be established by non-private founders. I therefore see no reason why these foreign facilities should be financed from the state budget. In general, the material background is provided by the founder and this principle should also apply to educational establishments abroad. The financing of educational establishments abroad is not part of the school law, as the rapporteur has already said, but also part of the law on granting subsidies to private schools. In addition, even if I were to pass on these arguments, it is rather strange that the appellants want to provide funds of 50 per cent of the expenditure effectively incurred in the previous year. But if funds were to be shown on the basis of proven expenditures last year, some mechanism would have to be set up to control these expenditures. And it's not set at all. Nor is it defined what can be considered as expenditure effectively incurred. As far as control is concerned, this is not the only deficiency in the law. There is also a mechanism for monitoring compliance with the obligations of educational establishments abroad. There is no clear link between the provision of funds to compliance with the obligations laid down by these educational establishments. Now to staffing the operation of Czech schools abroad. According to the plaintiffs, it is not possible to ask them for these schools to have the required pedagogical qualifications of the staff. According to the proposal, only one pedagogical worker is needed, who is referred to as a guarantor within the Czech school's educational programme without borders and takes responsibility for the level of teaching. However, this is completely unacceptable under the Education Act. The requirement for education in educational establishments to be provided by teaching staff applies without exception even to school associations, i.e. facilities for interest education. The proposed amendment to the law on pedagogical workers, Article two of the draft law, is totally unacceptable, even as regards the fact that it withdraws from the condition of fulfilling the prerequisites required in general for the performance of the teaching worker's activities, such as self-righteousness, professional qualifications, integrity and medical fitness. I understand that it is important to maintain Czech language, contacts and awareness of the Czech Republic for Czech families living abroad, or local residents with Czech origins. I consider it right to want to develop culture, Czech language and information about our country. On the other hand, it is not possible to agree with the proposed financing method, which goes even under the support of the conditions for financing private schools in the Czech Republic. Similarly, the dislodgement of qualifications requirements for persons providing education and the fact that there is no possibility of controlling the educational process by the Czech School Inspectorate are inadmissible. For this reason, the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia cannot support the law in its submitted form. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-013-051.u11	Thank you, Mrs Marta Semelová. Now, Mrs Anna Putnová, in the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-013-051.u12	Thank you. I would like to bring the situation of Czech schools without borders closer, as we had the opportunity to see them with some of you in real life. In 2011, I visited this school in Paris, which works under very modest conditions. It is organized by Dr. Lucie Boucher, who is the founder of this network, and she has communicated to us the problems they face. Total unpredictability of funding. They don't have the opportunity to negotiate with teachers because they don't know what financial resources they're going to have. They don't have a chance to prepare their development plans. They actually live on donations, from the minimal support they receive from the Czech Republic, and it is actually an interest activity. To think that they are only children of Czech parents would be a mistake, because the largest percentage of children is from mixed families. And that's when I got her statement when she said it's not completely easy in a foreign environment to keep Czech, that Czech to support and support it in a family where you're the only Czech speaking person, and pass it on to the next generation. And she literally said at the time: It is not easy when father does not understand Czech at dinner. It was a very touching meeting. We've seen the progress these kids are making. They showed us their work, their writing work at the beginning of the school year, at the end. Again, I point out that this is Saturday's school. Can you imagine the regime of the family, which must submit to its entire program weekend so that children can go to learn Czech on Saturday? And if you have kids or grandchildren, you know you're not gonna get kids these days somewhere they don't want to go. And those kids like to go there. So we promised, there were several of us at the time, that we would try to create better conditions for operation. I went to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs because I had no ambition at all to handle this simple task with a parliamentary initiative, and I asked for cooperation. That's where I was referred to the Ministry of Education. At the Ministry of Education, they told me to visit the State Department with it. When I said I'd already been referred to them, they told me I couldn't. Well, all we had to do was do it as part of the parliamentary initiative. And then I remembered Professor Delong, who said, "If something goes wrong, give it to the young people, because they don't know it's impossible yet, and they'll figure it out." So I turned to young lawyers from Masaryk University and they prepared certainly not a perfect but viable proposal. Points, as we lecture them, have their logic. And now the school law is open, so it is possible that we would discuss the financing of Czech schools without borders in the context of changes in the financing of regional education. I think that makes sense. I think it is worth it to support those people who are really trying not only to get their grandchildren living in the Czech Republic to talk to them, but who are trying to make sure that she knows Czech really well so that she can study here or live once. It wasn't so long ago that we met with Eva Zucker in the US - I think her name was, if I knocked her name off, I apologize remotely - who talked about how important it was that these children could actually come to Czech schools so that they wouldn't be late to be handicapped. Moreover, the synergy effect, which is given by the fact that children return Monday after the weekend and talk to their classmates about what they experienced, about how Czech cities, Czech history, Czech customs, were reminded, so they are actually small ambassadors abroad. So I ask again, consider the support and let us work on improving and reaching the end of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-013-051.u13	Thank you, Mrs Anna Putnová. Now, Mrs Jana Fischerová. Excuse me, colleague, I'm sorry. I have here two factual points which came up when I said your name, Mr Ivan Pilný and Mrs Langšádlová, so I will make two factual points. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-013-051.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I also had the opportunity to meet those enthusiasts who run Czech schools in many countries, such as the United States. I think because it has already been mentioned here that several tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of families of Czech or mixed marriages live in these countries, that a thing like maintaining national identity, patriotism and language cannot be limited to any performances or seminars that would somehow accompany it. And we certainly do not want to leave the Czech identity and patriotism only to Jágr or people who promote the Czechs in those countries in their own way. It is simply a question of maintaining national identity, it is a question of maintaining language. The means proposed for this are very mild and proportionate to what we want to achieve. The fact that we have managed to create some kind of legislative spaghetti so that this problem can interfere with various laws is possible. Also, the proponents of this proposal could not assume that this law would be opened in parallel as such, because with those opposition proposals, we never know when it will come. These are all things that I'm sure can be solved. The uncertainty of funding, which is basically a small problem, is a very big problem for the people who run it, and they're doing it really, I could get to know it myself, with enthusiasm. I would very much advocate that we put this proposal into the legislative process and remove any shortcomings and ties that are hidden in it, because I think that this is possible if we are led by more good will than by a bureaucratic process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-013-051.u15	I thank Mr Ivan Pilný for his time on the point of fact. Now Mrs Helena Langšádlová has also made a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-013-051.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our society has many debts, but one of the debts we have is a relationship with our countrymen. We're in this special. Many other countries in Europe have their countrymen and maintain very strong and intensive contacts with them. In the Czech Republic, this is one of the areas we underestimated. There are ten million of us, and as said here, two million Czech compatriots live outside the territory of the Czech Republic. These contacts need to be used. Many of them are successful, they are in universities, they are in business, they are very honored citizens, they are citizens of other states. I believe that we are to correct this debt, that we are to maintain, or re-establish, substantially stronger relations with our compatriots and use this experience and their contacts abroad. I believe that from these contacts and from what they can do, many good things would arise for us who live here. This proposal is just a small stone to help them, to support them, to strengthen Czech identity with their children, to strengthen their knowledge of the Czech language. Therefore, I would like to ask you very much to release this bill to second reading and really seriously discuss it in a broader context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-013-051.u17	Thank you, Mrs Langšádlová. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Rom Kostřica, then with priority rights the chairman of the Social Democracy Club Roman Sklenák. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-013-051.u18	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join in what my previous speaker, Mrs Langšádlová, has said here, from the chair of the subcommittee on contact with the foreign committee's compatriots. There are a number of countrymen here, I am thinking in particular of the United States of America, where they are interested in getting their children a good knowledge of Czech. It is not problematic in large centres such as New York, Chicago and others, but there are also smaller communities and cities and there the possibility of studying Czech language is very problematic. I have already met several cases where we were asked if it would be possible, especially during the summer holidays there, to allow children from these Czech minorities to study in the Czech Republic, although short-term, but it would definitely benefit. I think that even this argument would be to release this law into second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-013-051.u19	I thank Mr Kostřic. Roman Sklenák, President of the Social Democracy Club, now with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-013-051.u20	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, I don't want to question the content of the amendment. After all, there are representatives of the Social Democracy Club among the petitioners. However, as has already been said here, we are currently discussing the amendment to the school law. Yesterday we started the first reading of the government proposal. You know that the Chamber of Deputies is also the object of criticism that we change laws too often. The amendments really come one after another. I don't think it's practical for us to discuss two amendments to the school law at the same time. It has already been said that there is a will on the part of the Ministry of Education to somehow incorporate this issue into the school law. I find it more sensible to concentrate on one press, to incorporate it into the present amendment to the Education Act and not discuss two amendments at the same time. At this point, I am not proposing to reject this proposal, but I would like the representatives to comment on this possibility, if this is not a better option from the practical point of view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-013-051.u21	Thank you, Mr Roman Sklenák. I will ask my colleague Fischerová to be patient because there are three factual points. First Ivan Gabal, then Anna Putnová, then Ivan Adamec. The first, with a factual remark, is therefore colleague Ivan Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-013-051.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I'm just purely from experience. It is a fact that the Czech Republic usually loses children of our citizens who work abroad for a long time, whether in the public service or in private companies, because those children, as they go through foreign education, lose contact with the Czech language and then fail to return to our schools. That means the support is right here. The question I would have whether we could actually incorporate this matter into the present law, or have it released for further reading and left on the school committee to try to integrate the matter. This would seem to me to be on the one hand the solution to the material problem, which we really have the loss of the younger generation and, as a rule, the very capable ones, and, on the other hand, the relevant legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-013-051.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Putnová, too, with a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-013-051.u24	I would like to comment on proposals that seem quite logical. Of course, it occurred to us in the past to take this material as an amendment, because the school law was open several times, but it did not seem correct to us, because the regulation is quite large and we believe that if such a change is made, it should be a separate amendment. So I admit that I have preferred this much more complex and less comfortable situation in a pure legislative process and I submit it as an amendment. I think it would be good if the school committee saw fit to integrate it at second reading, so of course we can combine it, but at this point, I would consider it correct to be a separate amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-013-051.u25	Thank you, Mrs Putnová. Before the words are taken by my colleague Adamec, I will read the apologies received by the President of the House. Mr Vojtěch Adam from 16.30 to the end of the hearing for health reasons, from 16 to 19 o'clock Mr Augustin Karel Andrle Sylor and Mr Šarapatka from 16.30 to the end of the day. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you also have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-013-051.u26	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, I will respond here to President Sklenák. He's de facto saying he doesn't want to make a motion to dismiss at first reading, but the whole act came out that way. I would consider his proposal correct if the Minister of Education were here to comment on whether he wants to implement or integrate this, or, as we would call it, the current open amendment to the school law. Then I'd feel that way. But at this point, we don't have this information or any other promise, so I would personally encourage the release of it to the second reading and have the school committee deal with it in agreement with the secretary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-013-051.u27	Thank you. Mr Karel Fiedler is now also making a point of fact. And one more point in fact, my colleague Zlatuška. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-013-051.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think what was said here by President Roman Sklenák is a reasonable suggestion to bring it together. Anyway, I'm asking myself a question. If - and again what the previous speaker said - the secretary wasn't here, it doesn't matter that much. But I'm asking myself a question. If the Ministry of Education and the Secretary of State really meant that they were going to work in that government novel, why didn't they do it already? They certainly know that this House press with serial number 278 has been in the system for a long time. And if the Ministry of Education and the Minister really meant it seriously and seriously that they wanted to deal with this, that they thought it was a reasonable proposal and that they wanted to implement it into the law, why didn't they do so in the amendments that were submitted later? They had the best options. So I guess the optimal option is what has been said here by my previous speakers, which I'm leaning towards, letting it go to second reading and leaving it on the school committee to stay there. Alternatively, make a motion to adjourn. But I certainly wouldn't, on the basis of the argument I've made, be inclined to reject it with the fact that it's in other running laws, but to leave it at that stage... I really say, if the Ministry were to be serious, there was nothing to prevent this idea from being incorporated into other proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-013-051.u29	Thank you, colleague Fiedler, for keeping time on a point of fact. Mr Jiří Zlatuška's factual comment now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-013-051.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the proposal made by Mr Sklenák here is reasonable from the point of view of whether we want this standard to actually pass here in this parliamentary term. If it's negotiated as a separate proposal, it increases the chance of it going slower. Again, we should not act in such a way as to reject something here that we want as part of this parallel proposal. So I would like to make a formal proposal to suspend this proposal until the next meeting, with the fact that during the meeting of the Education Committee, there will be room to find a way to incorporate it into the Act on the modification of regional education funding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-013-051.u31	This was a procedural proposal that we will decide without debate. I admit that I have four further factual points and a proper application from Mrs Fischerová, but under the Rules of Procedure we must leave the vote without debate on the proposal to interrupt this item with the term of the September committee meeting on the Government's draft school law. We'll decide on it in the next vote, but first I'll put you all out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. I'm doing it because I asked my colleagues to discuss it in the foyer to reduce the noise level. Once the number of entries has settled, we will decide on a proposal from my colleague Zlatuška to interrupt this point... I started voting number 230. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. It's the number 230 vote. Of the 130 present, for 89, against 32. The motion was accepted. I apologize to everyone who has applied for, but the procedural proposal has been approved, so I am interrupting item 51, pending the discussion of the Government's draft school law on the Education Committee. Thank you, Mrs. Submitter's Attorney. Thank you to the rapporteur. For now, I'm done with point 51. We'll continue with point number
