ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u1	The combined debate on paragraphs 1 and 2 / House prints 513 and 514/ The Minister of Finance is claiming priority rights. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u2	Thank you for the floor. Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to wish you good health, happiness, family well-being and, if possible, also wish this House to act as constructive and factually as possible this year. Let's hope we do. In my speech, I would like to respond to that last reading - the record of sales at the third reading, which seems to have taken about 26 hours. So I would like to set the record straight with a lot of disinformation about the EET that has been deliberately or inadvertently said and disseminated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u3	Minister, I am very sorry. I ask the House for peace. Please settle down so that you do not discuss and pay attention to the Minister's speech. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u4	First, I would like to respond to repeated claims that the Ministry of Finance called. He hunts small fish. That is, that we are not dealing with large tax evasion and we focus only on the choice of classified sales, which, in the opinion of the authors of these statements, are also negligible. It's not true. I'd like to add two facts. Firstly, electronic sales records are only one of the projects that we want to contribute to a better, more efficient and thus fairer tax collection in our country. The Ministry of Finance has, of course, prepared and further prepared other legislative and non-legislative projects that improve tax collection and reduce tax evasion, i.e. tax crime. For example, this is the case. extending the reverse charge regime to value added tax, which will prevent carousel fraud in commodities for which EU rules allow. Against carousel fraud and at the same time against fictitious evidence is also aimed at a control report that has started to apply since 1 January this year and which can prevent tax crime in the range of up to 10 billion. per year. This is 10 billion, which, instead of ending up in the accounts of organized gangs, will end up in the wallets of Czech citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u5	Colleagues, colleagues, I am very sorry and again I ask for peace. I ask the left side of the hall and some specific Members not to discuss it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u6	We focus on improving the collection of excise duties, whether it is better by examining tax entities dealing with sensitive commodities and their economic stability, or specific projects such as reducing tax evasion on special oils that have been abused by incorporation into diesel. We focus on the illegal casting of profits of above-standard corporations, through a better focus on control of transfer prices. We focus on eliminating the phenomenon of Prague - tax haven, through the release of control capacities of the Prague Financial Authority. For example, by moving some activities to other regions or facilitating changes to the tax administrator, which controls companies at virtual sites.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u7	I'm very sorry. Colleagues, colleagues, if there is no peace in the Chamber of Deputies, I will adjourn this meeting. I'll give you some space to discuss the things you need to discuss, and then we'll continue. This is a serious issue and please pay attention to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u8	In this Chamber of Deputies, there is also a law on the proof of the origin of the property, which will enable the tax administrator to prosecute concealed income which, in a number of cases, has a dubious source, by comparing the income declared by the tax administrator with that of the taxpayer. Of course, we also focus on strengthening the Financial and Customs Administration, both from a personnel and technical point of view. Since we are in the 21st century, the Financial and Customs Administration must be able to work effectively with the data available to it. We focus on strengthening the electronicisation of tax administration so that the work of a financial officer is not to rewrite data from a paper form to a computer, but to check reported data. Inspiration in Slovakia was tax Cobra, technically equipped and efficiently cooperating teams of people Financial Administration, Customs Administration and Police of the Czech Republic. Tax Cobra has already added a number of successful interventions, in total over 4 billion. Crowns. So we fundamentally reject the accusation that we focus only on EET. EET is only one of the stones in the mosaic of measures against tax evasion. It is aimed at a specific phenomenon of concealing cash payments, whether small or large. This is an important project, but it is far from the only project. Thanks also to other projects, which I mentioned the most important, we have already significantly improved and will further improve tax collection. And I ask: what did the ODS do during the period of its government to improve tax collection? What did the party that claims that the only recipe for better tax collection is a reduction in tax rates? To improve tax collection, it did so by increasing VAT from 5 to 15 percent. It introduced a super gross wage and a solidarity tax increase. So the money she was supposed to take from the crooks pulled out of all the citizens of this country instead. [[9.10 hours]] Our strategy is better to collect existing taxes and create room for reduced rates, as we have already done with VAT. By the way, in 2015 we collected 36 billion in taxes against the plan. more, taking into account the extraordinary effects even by 59 billion. more. At the same time, it is an increase of 72 billion. Compared to 2014. As a result, we also hit the planned state budget deficit by 38 billion. Kč. It is clear that our strategy is working, but there is still a substantial scope for improvement thanks to the electronic record of sales. How does electronic sales log work? Since, despite our efforts to inform both this House and the entrepreneurs and all citizens of the Czech Republic about the fact of electronic records of sales, there are still many misunderstood or half-truths. I will repeat here the basic principles on which electronic sales records are built and which are contained in the draft law. So what's the electronic sales log? As the name suggests, it is electronic, so it is based on the use of technology, in various forms of cashiers, whether as we know them today or in forms that are far from normal. It is a record, so it is a system of record-keeping, when there is communication between the entrepreneur and the Financial Administration on facts which consequently affect his tax liability. And at the end, it's sales records, not customer records, not records of their purchasing behaviour. The record is focused only on the amount of revenue, which is from the tax point of view of its income. How will the registration work from a technical point of view? It'll be four simple steps. Step one. The entrepreneur will enter the sales into his cashier's facility in the form he is used to, whether he directly enters the amount of the sales or selects in his cashier's system what the customer consumes. Here I would point out that nothing will ever change for entrepreneurs against the procedure they already know today. There are no extra steps, no administration. The businessman merely puts a mark on the sales. Step two. The cash facility that contains the relevant software sends information about the sales to the central server via the secure connection via electronic means, only the necessary information that the Financial Administration needs, i.e. information about the amount of the sales. If the entrepreneur is a VAT payer, then, of course, information about the VAT rate and finally information used to identify the entrepreneur and to control the activity, i.e. date, time, VAT number and place of sales. In order not to be attacked by the fact that I'm not telling you something, other items sent out of a mandatory nature are merely ancillary data. For example, it is a cryptographic transformation of the transmitted data. Here I want to stress one essential fact. No information on the content of the purchase shall be sent. And since this is a really important thing, one more time: no information about individual items of purchase is sent. Information about the identity of the customer is not even sent if the entrepreneur knows the identity. There are a lot of misinformation in this regard. So I repeat: sales, VAT, VAT, VAT number, place and time. Step three. The Financial Administration server immediately - and here we are talking about the order of a tenth of a second - sends a unique code confirming receipt of the data sent to the cashier. Step four. The cash facility displays a receipt that contains a unique code and other information prescribed by law. I do not deliberately use the term "prints the receipt" here, because the law does not specify the form of the receipt. It can also be exposed in electronic form. This will be used, for example, by online shops or by other entrepreneurs who are already exhibiting documents in electronic form and sending them to the customer's e-mail. For the sake of completeness, of course, an entrepreneur does not have to issue a special receipt for the record of sales. Data, for example, from VAT tax document, data from the receipt for the record of sales, is sufficient to state on one document. This is how electronic sales log works in four simple steps. Please note that the sole intervention of an entrepreneur is to enter sales into a cashier's facility if you want to mark sales. Everything else is automatic. And I ask, where is this administration that the opposition is constantly talking about? Where is the harassment of businessmen? Where are the extra operations? I repeat once again: the businessman will only mark the sales into the cash register in the way he is accustomed to, and at the moment in which he is accustomed, that is, of course, when paying the total cost by the customer. No entry of items, no marking of each beer separately and similar nonsense by which entrepreneurs haunt the opposition. Mr Kalousek, on this ground, expressed his concern that the beer would be ventilated before the innkeeper dealt with the sales log. I do not know whether this means that in restaurants they require Mr Kalousek to be paid in advance. As I have described, electronic sales log works on the principle of automatic machine communication with machine. Everything works automatically and naturally. The customer does not have a chance to know if the entrepreneur has been involved in the sales log until he receives a receipt with a special code. Mr Gazdík also expressed concern that there will be no beer, because the Internet may not go. I would recommend reading the bill or visiting a Croatian restaurant where the system already works. The law clearly states that in the event of a failure of a connection, it is not necessary to wait for the connection to be restored. The cash facility will only try to establish a connection with the central system for a period to be determined by the entrepreneur and which must not be less than two seconds. This period should correspond to the nature of the businessman's activity and the quality of his Internet connection. This means that if it is a self-service or fast food business, the entrepreneur will set out the two seconds. For example, if there is a reception at the hotel, it can set a longer period. However, we are still talking about the time in the order of the seconds and in emergency situations of the failure of the Internet connection. In normal operation, the system will check individual receipts immediately. Let's compare it to paying with a card. What happens in the case of an Internet blackout after the two seconds have passed? The cashier will store the sales information in the memory and issue the receipt immediately. This receipt, for example, is called an off-line receipt, of course it cannot and will not contain a unique code of Financial Administration. Instead, the cashier will sign it with the so-called payer's signature code. The customer gets the receipt and leaves. He doesn't have to wait for the Internet connection to be restored. That would, of course, be nonsense to demand such a thing. The cashier will continue to try to connect to the central system, and as soon as it connects, it will send all the receipts stored in the memory. By the way, the data sent will be so small that it is definitely not necessary to have high-speed internet that has repeatedly operated on the opposition. We're talking about units of kilobytes per receipt. In such a case, it is not really necessary to have a LT signal or an optical line available. And Mr Gazdík's claim that the introduction of a record of sales in Croatia caused an overload of their mobile networks is indeed a fairy tale worthy of pre-Christmas time, but we should not go back to it. The bill allows entrepreneurs who accept sales in places where the Internet is not available or where there is a big problem with the quality of the mobile signal, to apply for a so-called simplified regime. Then they will record completely off-line and send data within five days. So I summarize again: In case of a failure of internet connection, the customer gets an off-line receipt after the end of the period of one second. There's no queues, no one's stalling. And for Mr Kalousek, who pays in advance, no stale beer. Who's the electronic sales log for anyway? Electronic sales log is heading into the cash payment area. This is an area system which is not targeted at any size of a business entity. [[9.20 hours]] The opposition likes to use the term as a businessman, small businessman, etc. to give the impression that the registration will only concern small businessmen. It's not true. The electronic record-keeping of sales is intended to establish an equal business environment and therefore cannot, on principle, contain exemptions according to the turnover level in either direction. So to remind you: Evidence will be subject to the largest and smallest business entity accepting cash payments. If you go shopping in the largest hypermarket, you will get a registered receipt if you go to the most expensive restaurant in Prague, you will get a registered receipt. So let us be correct in this regard and do not lie to our citizens. Why do we need sales records? President Fiala has said several times that the record of sales is useless, that the Financial Administration already has sufficient tools to collect taxes and prevent tax evasion in the area of cash payment. Unfortunately, he always stopped in the middle and didn't tell us what instruments they were. And I'm sure they won't tell us today, because the Financial Administration doesn't have such instruments today - and historically, it doesn't. In the current situation, the tax administrator has very difficult options for correct tax determination for entrepreneurs or tax entities accepting cash payments. Under the tax rules, it is always the duty of the tax administrator to demonstrate the inconclusiveness of the cash payment records submitted by the tax entity or the entrepreneur. That's not practically possible, except for the eye-beating cases of aggressive cutbacks. Moreover, given the estimated number of approximately 600,000 tax entities receiving cash payments, a detailed tax control of all these entities would require the participation of more than 100 thousand, 100 thousand Financial Administration controllers. The real control capacity of the Financial Administration is about three percent of that number. At the same time, such detailed checks are also very burdensome for the tax entity itself, which, instead of its business, has to be subject to tax control. In order to enable the tax administrator to verify that the entrepreneur has recorded all cash income during the audited period, it must have at its disposal data on all purchased goods or materials, on the goods sold including actual sales prices and on the change in stocks at the beginning and end of the tax period. If the tax administrator did not want to rely blindly on the stocks at the beginning and end of the tax period given by the entrepreneur, he would have to de facto carry out inventory, which is virtually unrealistic both for capacitive reasons on the part of the tax administrator and on the part of the burden on the entrepreneur. It is not always possible to rely on the purchase documents submitted, since these documents can also be presented only in such volume as to correspond to the sales declared. This is related to the phenomenon of anonymous purchases outside wholesale warehouses, when a dishonest seller buys his goods in a regular hypermarket so that the Financial Administration cannot obtain the necessary information about purchased goods from a wholesale supplier. Perhaps none of the people present will be surprised that there are a number of wholesalers that do not show sales and sell outside any register for cash. Who's going to be surprised, I suggest you go ask the businessmen who make these warehouses unfairly competitive. That'll tell them. If an entrepreneur does not disclose the purchase documents in his nominally impeccable records, it is virtually impossible to prove him a withheld income. How is the Financial Administration supposed to check all this? It is not really possible to put one controller in each establishment. Another fundamental problem at present is the fact that if the tax administrator can already prove that the entrepreneur has withheld income, there is a problem to set tax according to so-called aids, i.e. by comparing comparable tax entities and their tax obligations. In some branches of business, the phenomenon of reducing sales has reached such a scale that a large proportion of business entities are permanently low or zero tax-paying. Indeed, they expect that the existing control mechanisms allow tax authorities to detect classified income very difficult. The revenue withheld has a major impact on the obligations of business entities. Income taxes are being reduced, which consequently also has an impact on social and health insurance. Value added tax is also reduced for VAT payers. In addition, entrepreneurs who artificially maintain a reported turnover below CZK 1 million avoid VAT registration. The secret cash is also used to pay black wages, thereby multiplying the effect, reducing the tax on dependent activity and insurance against social and health insurance. Many entrepreneurs take advantage of this. They do not care what effect this has on their employees, who cry at a time when they are to receive, for example, a sick, maternity or old-age pension. If the objective is to be achieved, this means minimizing tax evasion related to the reduction of sales, so from the point of view of entrepreneurs, the electronic record of sales is the least burdensome option of those that were taken into account. It is a measure that meets the proportionality requirement, constitutes a minimum administrative burden, minimises, for reasons of the tax administrator, where tax control is directed, and confers an advantage on entrepreneurs who properly show sales, in the form of a reduction in the number of tax controls. Overall, there will also be a settlement of the conditions of the business environment, where honest entrepreneurs will gain confidence in the equality of business conditions, and thus the motivation of entrepreneurs to pay taxes will also be strengthened. What are the effects of the introduction of electronic sales records? Although the primary objective of electronic sales record is to level up the business environment in the Czech economy, it also has a significant fiscal effect. As stated in the final report on the assessment of the impact of regulation, the expected additional tax revenue on income tax and value added tax in the food, accommodation and trade sectors, i.e. for the first two stages of registration, is up to CZK 12,5 billion per year. For other sectors, the potential for additional revenues is between CZK 5 billion and CZK 6 billion per year. So the total tax return after the full start of the sales record will be about CZK 18 billion per year. We must realise that these are shared taxes and that out of these 18 billion a year, approximately CZK 4 billion per year will go into the budgets of municipalities and approximately CZK 1.5 billion per year into the budgets of the regions. That means, when we were discussing RUD here, EET here is better than the RUD that the opposition suggested. This means more investment in local projects, infrastructure, municipalities, kindergartens etc. And I ask Mr Gazdík: Who questioned what he was worried about last time that municipalities and regions would receive more money? Well, you're against the towns and regions. It's on the table here. EET here will bring them more money. Thus, electronic sales records can substantially increase the revenues of public budgets without raising tax rates. By the way, it is nonsense that the Ministry of Finance estimated the yield to CZK 12.5 billion for both the first two phases and the full start of the records. The additional yield of 12,5 billion always concerned only the first two stages of registration, i.e. catering, accommodation and trade. At the same time, it is necessary to emphasise once again the most fundamental, albeit incalculable contribution by money - the alignment of the market environment in the Czech economy, the setting of fair competition, the efficiency and equalization of distorted economic relations, the support of the large majority of our entrepreneurs, who play by the rules and whose money the opposition steals from them by their obstructions. Previously, President Fiala tried to argue with us the example of Switzerland, which has a low rate of taxation and a low rate of grey economy. In the example of one country, it thus suggests that there is a causal link between the rate of taxation and the size of the grey economy. It may be worth recalling that, for example, Scandinavian countries do not have a low rate of taxation, while the grey economy is reaching average to below average values. President Fiala should also be aware that in Switzerland, an entrepreneur who cheats on taxes is excluded from a decent company and loses confidence in his customers and business partners. To such a level of tax morality, the Czech Republic must have a long way to go. [[9.30 hours]] However, when we have already mentioned the grey economy, which has been put down many times in connection with the electronic sales log, I would like to make some claims. The gray economy has many definitions. In general, however, it can be said that the grey economy includes such economic processes and relationships that are not included in official records and from which tax and insurance are not paid. According to the OECD methodology, on the basis of which statistics also work within European Union countries, we distinguish between the following categories of so-called unidentified economy: First, the hidden economy. This includes unreported or underestimated revenue, whether as a result of misrepresentation of economic results or work on black. Second, an economy that is illegal, sometimes also known as the black economy. This includes activities illegal by nature or illegal if they are carried out by non-licensed entities. This includes, for example, the drug market, prostitution, production, sale of illegal alcohol or tobacco products. And thirdly, the economy is informal. This includes, in particular, household production for own use. So when we talk about the gray economy, we must not forget the division that I have said. I cannot therefore offer the 50 shades of grey that Mr Novotný mentioned last time. But we distinguish at least these three - the economy hidden, the black economy and the informal economy. If we take it from behind, an informal economy that includes, for example, when someone self-helps himself to repair a family home, that's perfectly natural, all right, no one wants to tax it or regulate it. The black economy, that's felony. Such an economy is particularly affected by police and possibly a team of tax Cobras. This is particularly about tax evasion on excise duties, or illegal property, such as drug sales. The law on the proof of the origin of the property that this House is discussing can also intervene in this economy. And only an economy hidden, which involves misrepresenting the results of the management and deliberate avoidance of registration, i.e. essentially a black business, is an area where electronic sales records are headed. Unfortunately, there is a confusion of terms where this hidden economy is often referred to as a grey economy in a narrower sense. At the same time, however, it is only one part of the overall grey economy, and only into the so-called hidden economy goes electronic sales records. To be specific, in 2013, the Czech Statistical Office is quantifying the hidden economy to around 324 billion. Crowns. This number consists of about 14 billion. koruna production of unregistered entrepreneurs, cca 141 billion. CZK overvalued costs and approx. 169 billion. koruna of classified income. And these almost 170 billion. The electronic records of sales may intervene annually. By the way, if someone had compared this number to RIA, where 160 billion is indicated. CZK, please note that this is not a mistake, but an increase between 2012 and 2013 when data for 2013 were not yet available during the RIA preparation period. So the estimate of concealed or if you want short-term income increased by almost 10 billion year on year. And that's the falling grey economy the opposition is talking about? Yes, the grey economy may fall as a whole, but not because of an improvement in sales cuts. On the contrary, there is a deterioration of already bad condition. So what is the result of this? That it is not possible to base on aggregate numbers without their deeper analysis. The gray economy isn't just a cut in revenue. This is a wider area involving various legal and illegal activities. Therefore, it is always necessary to take a detailed analysis and not approach it superficially. I also believe that the erroneous conclusions that the opposition is making on the basis of the report of the Supreme Audit Office are once and for all refuted. The Supreme Audit Office mistakenly stated that electronic sales records would be directed towards the black economy and, in addition to its calculation, non-registered entrepreneurs account for seven percent of the VAT gap, i.e. less than 7 billion. Crowns. That is, of course, nonsense. I would like to predict that despite the Ministry of Finance's global campaign, drug dealers will not join the sales log. The electronic record of sales goes into sales cuts, which is in absolute value of 170 billion. crowns a year. Let's go to international comparisons now. From the mouth of the opposition, information has been heard that the record of sales is actually an unusual measure in an international context, because only three countries from the countries of the original European 15 have records. It's not even true. The countries are five, of which Austria has been in the biphasic process of registering in 2016 and 2017. So it is not true what Mr Gazdík said here last time that Austria is not considering registration at all. Maybe you should take a trip to Vienna and see how it is. What the opposition has not told us, however, is that from the 13 new accession countries, Malta, Cyprus, Lithuania, Latvia, Croatia, Bulgaria, Romania, Slovenia, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia have a record of their sales. If you count, it's 11 countries. Only Estonia and the Czech Republic are missing. Let me translate what that means. This means that unlike most European countries, including our direct neighbours from the Visegrad Four, our entrepreneurs are still exposed to the pressure of unfair competition. This means that entrepreneurs who approach their business responsibly are restricted in their profits by those who have decided to simply tune the tax base. And I'm asking you: Does this mean that the Czech entrepreneur should have less right to success than a Hungarian, Austrian or Polish entrepreneur? If this is the opinion of Members of the ODS and the TOP 09, please come here and say it not only to this Chamber of Deputies, but tell it to all the entrepreneurs of this country because you are acting like this so far. So please explain not only to entrepreneurs, but to all the people of this country why you allow them to be robbed, why the people of this country then bear the burden of unpaid taxes, and not anyone else. So here I repeat: more than half of the European Union countries have a certain form of sales record in place. Of course, it is not always the so-called online model, which is currently the most modern and efficient model of sales records. There are countries, such as Italy, which started to register sales in 1983. At that time, the Internet was not in every household, as it is today. Italy therefore has traditional registers in place. Those cash registers that were discussed here in 2005 and for which Mr Kalousek voted in favour, by the way, at that time. It was even twice, so I don't expect it to be a mistake. That's why I ask: Does this mean registering cashiers do, and not online registration? This could be a legitimate opinion, which I did not notice from the mouths of the TOP 09 Members and the ODS. Or is it a general resistance to the settlement of the business environment and to the effective collection of taxes in this state? I'd like someone to answer that question. Difference between registration cash registers and EET. Let me explain once again the fundamental differences between the electronic record of sales and registration cash registers and the reasons leading us to the preference of the previously mentioned model of record of sales. I will also mention this because the ODS representatives in their disinformation campaign do not see or understand this difference and use the term register cash register for electronic sales records. So the register is a cashier's device that stores data on sales into memory, which is more or less protected against manipulation. By its very nature, the register contains specific components, it is certified by the State, and entrepreneurs have to purchase it in some versions that are certified by the State designated supplier. The registration cash register service must therefore be carried out only by a certified service company, at the prescribed intervals. [[9.40 hours]] It is obvious that under such conditions there is no force to push the prices of cashiers and service down, rather the opposite. The financial office then harasses the entrepreneur by controlling the recording of data from the register, or even checking the cash register itself on suspicion of illegal data manipulation. And that such illegal manipulation is not an exception, it confirms the experience of countries where registers are introduced. This is confirmed by the OECD report, which specifically deals with illegal software used in registers. It's two kinds of software. So-called phantomware, which is an illegal software that manipulates sales data already during the actual markup of sales, and so-called. zapper, which is an illegal software that allows you to manipulate data already stored in the cash register memory. Clearly, it is only wishful thinking that should be indelible and irreparable. How is it different from the online sales register, which works in Croatia in its pure form and also in Slovenia from last weekend? Two differences are essential for us: the possibility of a free choice of cashier and completely free competition. For Mr Bendl, who refused to understand it last time: No one prescribes what cashier he can buy. What more? He doesn't have to buy one if he already has a cash register or any other device that he can communicate electronically. It only needs editing, software for cashiers, or uploading the app to a tablet or smartphone. They are not and will not be any state-selected or certified suppliers. For the electronic record of sales, the entrepreneur shall use the equipment which suits him, not which the State prescribes him. And, of course, there is a completely free competition between cashiers or software suppliers. The State will only publish the communication interface. And as Mr Gazdík asked here last time, I can promise him that he will be published in time after the law has been passed. The rest is a matter of free market. These are key advantages for entrepreneurs, which significantly reduce their costs compared to registering cash registers. And we're going to lower them by CZK 5,000 for the tradesmen. Another advantage is online data transfer, which means that the Financial Administration does not have to burden entrepreneurs with checkout checks. Financial management will focus their attention where data will indicate the problem. This makes it possible not to burden honest entrepreneurs and, on the contrary, to use control capacities as efficiently as possible. Let me sum up a comparison of registration cash registers and electronic record of sales by comparing it to a hypothetical example of myth payment control. In the case of registration cash registers, the state will prescribe to the entrepreneur what truck he must buy, if the entrepreneur already has a truck and the existing one will suit him perfectly. The official inspector will then go to the truck to check the toll unit, which actually contains the data and whether there is illegal manipulation. In the case of electronic sales records, no one is forcing anyone. The entrepreneur will place a unit in his existing truck that will send the measured amounts of myth. If the data sent is credible, the businessman will not see the controller in his life. And although it will be a very limited group of data, their thorough protection will be ensured. Already, the Financial Administration manages a lot of sensitive data and has it secured against escape and abuse. For data from electronic sales records, it will be an even higher degree of security, when only a limited group of analysts with security clearance will have access at the date. All their access to the system will be recorded. The system will be located in a secure location of the State Treasury of the Shared Services Centre, which already provides the operation of many sensitive government systems, and will, of course, be secured against cyber attacks. All communication between the entrepreneur's cashier's establishment and the central system will take place on HTTPS protocol, which is an encrypted connection that we all use for example. when linking to internet banking. I believe that if we commit our money to such a system, it is safe enough to transfer sales data. Mr Kučera has nicely removed the potential risk of the project from the feasibility study for the electronic record of sales. Somehow he forgot to mention the reason why the study contained them. The objective of risk management of each project is to identify and specify the individual risks of the project, assess their impacts and define appropriate preventive measures accordingly. It is surprising that Mr Kučera claims that the risks have not been eliminated, especially given that a few pages are further mentioned in the study that an appropriate procedure has always been chosen to eliminate risks, which has led to the establishment of a specific measure to eliminate them. So let's go to the cost of the central system. It is clear that the construction of a central IT system carries costs. And here again, the advantage of the Croatian sales registration system is shown, because if the opposition repeatedly tells us that we are transferring costs to entrepreneurs, it is necessary to realise that if we were to go the way of registration cash registers, as was the case for example. in Poland or Slovakia, so the construction costs will be lower, but for entrepreneurs significantly higher, not to mention ancillary costs such as the cost of regular certified service etc. These would be the real extra costs, not the 30,000 CZK, by which the President of the Fiala, who tried to include in the costs the school supplies of the businessman concerned. But back to the cost. To be sure, let's say that somebody doesn't believe President Kalousek's lies that the Ministry of Finance will build a data center for CZK 6 billion. It won't. We're not building any data center for sales records. Only the central IT system for recording sales shall be built. And I can assure Mr Gazdík that we will build him in those seven months between the validity and effectiveness of the law, even if he does not believe it. The system will cost CZK 370 million and the operation will cost CZK 170 million annually. Maybe even less, because it depends on specific offers from suppliers. We will not invest in the IT system until the law is passed and we will not invest in the solution. Other costs will be in particular wage costs of 400 staff of the Financial and Customs Administration, who will carry out checks. I note that there are 400, and not 700, as Mr Gazdík said for the first time, nor 900, as Mr Gazdík said ten minutes later. So not 700, not 900, but 400. And those workers are really needed. Even now, both institutions are significantly undersized in their control capacities and would not be able to carry out their activities effectively without effective control. So let's compare these costs with the estimated additional tax collection of 12.5 billion for just two phases of the rise. And after a full start of 18 billion a year, so the beginning of 370 and then 170 a year, so I think that's the investment of dreams for private equity, which have brutal margins. An incredible return. I can't believe anyone's even discussing costs. And that is only on business income tax and value added tax, secondary effects on income tax on dependent activities and social and health insurance are not included here. Let's talk about sanctions. Last time it was mentioned setting up sanctions for the bill on registration of sales. This setting respects all the principles of administrative punishment and does not introduce any sanctions in relation to the Czech rule of law which the Czech rule of law would no longer know. Although this has offended Mr Fiala, 500,000 as the maximum amount of fines for offenses is not an excess of the sales record bill. On the contrary, 500 000 as a penalty for offenses already makes it possible to impose a number of Czech legislation and it is not by far the highest possible amount of penalty for offenses in the Czech legal order. The Trade Act allows up to CZK 1 million and the Act on the Conditions of Traffic of Vehicles on the Road even allows to impose a penalty of CZK 5 million for an offence. [[9.50 hours]] Also in tax laws, the maximum amount of the fine of CZK 500 000 is not exceptional and, for example, fines can be higher in the field of excise duties. By the way, Mr. Fial might like that the same fine of up to half a million crowns may be imposed on the employees of the Financial Authority for breach of confidentiality. We can also make a short international comparison with countries that have established electronic records of sales. While in the Czech bill there is a maximum fine of CZK 500 000, in Croatia it is CZK 500 000, i.e. more than CZK 1.5 million. In Slovenia, this is even more than CZK 2 million for individuals and more than CZK 4 million for small companies and more than CZK 6 million for medium and large companies. It is important to note that when imposing a penalty under the Sales Recording Act, the administrative authority must always take account of the specific circumstances and may impose a fine only to an amount which corresponds to the seriousness of the breach of the existing activity and the assets of the debtor. Indeed, the purpose of sanctions is not to eliminate a dishonest entrepreneur. The point is to get him to follow the rules. Similarly, the possibility of closing an establishment on the basis of a decision of the administrative authority is no novelty. Such authority is already entrusted with the laws of the Czech Trade Inspection and the State Agricultural and Food Inspection and the conditions are similar to those of the closure of the establishment under the proposed Act on Recording of Sales. The closure of an establishment does not have the character of punishment. The administrative authority does not prohibit entrepreneurs from doing business, as President Fiala claims, shutting down an establishment is an extreme means of forcing entrepreneurs to remedy a serious breach of the law. Of course, such a measure can only be imposed in extreme cases where an entrepreneur literally boycotts his legal obligation. However, if the unlawful situation is eliminated, it will be able to reopen its establishment and continue its business. Tax collection in Croatia. I will now respond here to the demagogy of the opposition on tax collection following the introduction of sales records in Croatia. The representatives of the opposition here demonstrated mental ecvilibristy with tax collection numbers, which had nothing to do with the reality of the impact of sales records. When I take it from a general point of view, tax collection is always a function of multiple variables, where one of them is the efficiency of tax collection and other, for example, economic performance. Interestingly, according to the opposition, only the first one works in Croatia, while in the Czech Republic the second one, as we could see in comments on the implementation of the state budget last year. From 2012 to 2014, Croatia experienced a decline in the economy. According to the logic of opposition representatives, therefore, there should be a fall in the collection of, for example, value added tax. Did it happen? No. The selection remained approximately at the same level, which logically indicates an increase in efficiency. At the same time, however, it is fair to admit that value added tax has undergone changes in the given years from both the point of view of rates and the principle of Croatia's accession to the European Union. The results of the VAT collection were therefore affected by so many factors that they cannot be reliably used as a measure of the efficiency of the sales record. As regards the collection of income taxes, please see which sales records are affected. They're cash-income entities. Companies and traders whose invoices are covered by bank transfers are not subject to registration. Surely you will recognize that this is most of the companies and a substantial part of the entrepreneurs of natural persons. So how can we conclude from the total number of tax collection on the effectiveness of measures that only affect the selected segment? I'll answer it myself: we can't. In Croatia, however, there is a tax that has been actually affected by the introduction of sales records and is clearly quite relevant for its selection. It is a so-called tax on the consumption of beverages. And please don't mess with the excise duty. This is derived from the value of drinks sold in restaurants. The rate of this tax was fixed at 3% of the value of the beverage. For the food service segment, the registration was first started in Croatia since 1 January 2013 and therefore influenced it year-round. And the collection of consumption tax in Croatia has grown. Again, in an environment of declining economic performance. And it grew by 48 percent. I would ask colleagues from ODS and TOP 09 to explain to us what caused this, if not by the introduction of electronic records of sales. That's obvious. In Croatia, sales grew by an average of 40 percent in restaurants and 14 percent in shops thanks to registration. On average, I repeat this for Mr Gazdík, who does not distinguish between the average increase for the whole economy and the extreme cases of some businesses where there has actually been an increase in reported sales by hundreds of percent. In the context of Croatia, I would like to reiterate that the introduction of sales records in Croatia did not affect the number of entrepreneurs. As Mr Nykl mentioned in his second reading, and it follows from the study of the Parliamentary Institute, although the number of civil servants in Croatia has decreased, the number of entrepreneurs in the form of business companies has increased and an increase in the number of entrepreneurs is recorded overall. On the contrary, the mentioned decrease in the number of CFIs was mainly reflected in agricultural entrepreneurs who are essentially not affected by the electronic registration of sales, or by the fiscalisation, and at the same time has a long-term tendency since 2010, when the introduction of the record of sales in Croatia could not yet be discussed. So the conclusion is clear. They were embarrassed to show that they were cheating, so they ended one activity and went to the other. I would still like to set the record straight with some of the misinformation that fell in relation to the data that are being checked in Croatia and reported to be being checked in our country. We're not checking opening hours. Chairman Fiala can rest. The state will not order him through the EET when he can buy and when he can't. We're not gonna check the cash in the cash register. So it cannot be that someone is being fined for the surplus in the cash register. Nor will we record the name of the goods mentioned by Mr Gazdík, for, and I am stressing this, even though I have said this a hundred times, the content of the data message will not include individual items of purchase, let alone the name of the goods. Speaking of differences compared to Croatia, we will not register data about the cashiers that Croatia records for the control of working time and black work. And the last difference: we do not impose a customer's obligation to take over the receipt, and therefore we will not sanction it for its failure to take over. People's letters. Mr. Gazdík had a "over the letters of citizens" window here. I consider it my duty here to respond briefly to these letters. Mrs Voňková was concerned about the sale of trolls in the Christmas markets and the entry of data on each trollstone. As I said before, there are a lot of devices, and everyone chooses their own. Some of the devices look like a really big calculator, I'm going to enter an amount, and that's that. Or I'll press a picture of the chest and then enter. It's really nothing complicated, and even speed concerns aren't in place, I've already talked about it, the customer won't know. Mr. Holý wrote that success is not forgiven. Yes, we want entrepreneurs to be successful, but to be successful, those who play by the rules. On the contrary, previous governments have done nothing to protect most honest entrepreneurs from unfair price competition. Mr. Zahradníček had a question about the effects and planned revenues and costs of the system. I've already described those here. It also asks about the technological requirements and prices of the systems acquired. I said the answer here. Once again, who now has an electronic cash register or similar device does not have to buy anything new, only order software editing. Digital certificates will be issued by the Financial Administration for free. Another question by Mr. Zahradníček was why registration should be introduced only for certain groups. It's not like that. Gradually it will be introduced to all segments, only with a certain delay according to the agreement of coalition parties. Finally, the question about how the planned use of data from EET is planned. The answer is simple. As with all other data collected by the Financial Administration, correct determination of tax liability and correct collection of taxes. It's always been like that, and it always will be. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the attention you have given me. I believe that I have clarified many things here, and I am asking for a constructive discussion on the subject of electronic sales records, so that we can move forward and vote on the bill. [[10.00 hours]] I'd be happy to answer any questions. However, I would ask that we do not go back to topics that have already been discussed and answered several times. And please let us realise that, at the same time as the introduction of sales records, there is also a reduction in taxes. Yes. I repeat: tax cuts! We're cutting taxes. Thus, reduction of VAT in restaurants from 21 percent to 15. So we're reducing the VAT in restaurants by 6 percent. And thanks to obstructions, hospitality entrepreneurs are being robbed of this tax advantage. I'm sure they know who to thank. Finally, I would like to remind you of Mr Šarapatka's words. At first reading, the Member said: I am therefore in favour of introducing register receipts so that taxes must be paid by all, so that it is not possible that a handy innkeeper runs away with taxes and a stupid innkeeper simply does not pay them. Unless there's a fair competition. But at the same time, I believe that taxes should be such as to allow those tradesmen, the middle class, to live a happy life without the need to be robbed. There's really only one way to agree with this. And I have said it many times and I will repeat it again: we want low taxes, but paid by all who have to pay them. Because if we all pay taxes, each of us pays less. That's common sense. And in such an environment, our entrepreneurs and our economies can prosper. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u9	Thank you, Minister. Before I can make any actual comments, I'll read more apologies. He apologizes to Minister Pelikán for work reasons. Mr Sedláček apologizes for personal reasons. The Prime Minister and Mr Petr Adam apologize for health reasons. So many apologies. And now I have three factual points. The first will be Vice-President Gazdík, followed by Mr Bendl and Mr Kučera. Mr. Vice-President, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u10	Dear colleague, dear fellow Members. Dear Minister, I cannot hide my enthusiasm and I must thank you. I'm really excited. This is how I really picture a parliamentary debate. Thank you for trying to answer or answer many questions. Some of your colleagues say that parliamentary discussions should be limited and that we should not be discussing this. I think that it is for such things, such challenging things as electronic sales records, when opinions are so contradictory, that parliamentary debate has its place. And I thank the Minister because he has demonstrated what this discussion is supposed to look like. I feel partially broken. I suppose a few more such discussions, and perhaps my colleagues will also consider retreating from their opinion and perhaps changing their opinion. Thank you, Minister, and so on. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u11	Thank you. The next performer will be Mr Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u12	Have a good day. Well, I'm not broken. [[With laughter.]] I listened carefully to the Vice-President of the Government with his arguments, and I would just like to respond to two technical points. The first was his comment that he would need about a hundred thousand officials to be controlled by all entrepreneurs, and that there wouldn't be so many of them, that there wouldn't have to be so much fear of too many controls, if I understood it correctly. So I ask, then, how will those who will be checked be chosen if we do not have enough officials to control them? If it's going to be drawn, or if it's just the ones who are going to be someone's biggest competition in order to get rid of them. So if they do not - I have understood this - the level playing field in the control of individual business entities. And then it's to the interface. I'm just gonna ask, has it been published yet? When you said cashiers would have to make sure that the Ministry of Finance would just publish the interface, whether it had already been published, so that the business sector could be adapted at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u13	Yes. Mr Kučera, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u14	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. I would also like to thank Minister Babiš for showing us a whole series of arguments here, of course, as is his custom, a whole series of half-truths and untruths, whether intentionally or by his ignorance. Minister Babiš mentioned one thing here, and these are huge security risks, which are, of course, presented in all studies, even in numbering 1 to 5 with point 5, that is to say with evaluation number 5, which means a security risk bordering with certainty. Minister Babiš here called for a constructive discussion. Of course, I welcome it and I also welcome the fact that Minister Babiš is ready to answer our questions. My question is very simple. This security risk, which is in those studies, and based on the study, of course, was prepared by this law, follows, in particular, that the entire system will run on the basis of the SSLv3 protocol. If the security risk is eliminated, as Minister Babiš spoke of it, I would like to ask him what other protocol this system will be running on. The security risk of the SSL protocol is known to all. It's a leaky protocol. Some systems even refuse to work with it, view it as a security risk. That means my question to Minister Babiš is very simple. He said that this security risk problem has already been eliminated, which means I understand that this protocol has been amended. So what protocol will electronic sales log work on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u15	Thank you. Those were factual remarks. And now, please, with Mr. Fiala's priority right. It is followed by President Stanjura and then President Laudát. All priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u16	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Like Minister Babiš, I am convinced that the discussion will take place factually and that factual arguments will also be heard by the government coalition, and I hope that we will continue the debate as it began today with a number of arguments or answers to our questions, Minister Babiš. Of course, I am not saying or suggesting that he has convinced me, but at least we have reached a stage in which we can discuss some of these things, on a factual basis and on the basis of data and real arguments. I, like Minister Babiš, listened not only to what I said last time, but also to the reaction to my speech in a number of factual remarks, and I listened to the whole following discussion, and on this basis I decided to speak again today and add some arguments, some arguments to explain and deal with some of the claims that were raised here on December 18 during the debate on electronic record of sales. One of the arguments we sometimes hear is: What businessmen and businessmen do you actually argue? After all, businessmen tell us that they want electronic sales records. And the surveys we did among businessmen show that, in fact, most of them can imagine it, and they actually welcome something like that to straighten out the business environment. I, of course, acknowledge that some surveys, particularly those paid or commissioned by government agencies, which were carried out by some large business associations, have resulted in the result that the business public is divided in relation to the electronic record of sales. However, it did not say that research was also carried out, which was carried out according to valid international standards, carried out by MEDIAN for Czech Television a few weeks ago and which shows a somewhat different picture of the business public's views on electronic sales records. If we look at the results here, we can see that they're a little different from the previous surveys. And it can, of course, be given by a different methodology, by selecting questions, respondents or interpreting results, but precisely because the research is done according to international standards, I would consider it quite relevant, or at least so that its results are taken into account in the discussion. [[10.10 hours]] According to this survey, 56 percent of the traders and entrepreneurs contacted see the cash registers as a new administrative burden, and some of them are even directly afraid of being liquidated. Only 8 percent, therefore, is seven times less questioned, appreciates the positive benefits of the cashiers. The remaining thirds are more or less indifferent because they assume that the electronic sales log system will suit the cash registers they already own. Which, as they'll see, or they'll see if the law comes into play, isn't true. According to this survey, a significant negative relationship between the majority of the business public confirms more detailed dating, which asks whether electronic sales records have any meaning at all. More than half of entrepreneurs assume that this system can be bypassed, for example, by denying more sales, by inventing costs, etc., or by any kind of confidence in the business public that a business environment would be balanced, does not result from this survey. Only a third of entrepreneurs believe that this is not a threat, and half of them fear that the information from the treasury can be used by politicians and officials. Only 40 percent believe this will not happen. So here you see the attitudes of the business public on the basis of a relevant survey. And I think if we're talking about what entrepreneurs and businessmen want, we're chasing their interests, we can't just use the data we need, but we need to use data or surveys that independent agencies have done, and we need to work with them. This survey clearly shows that most businessmen and entrepreneurs are concerned and do not see the point. He's worried about the increased administrative burden, the possible liquidation, and the misuse of the data. And just for a very small group of entrepreneurs, electronic sales records are something they would believe in and think will bring something positive to our economy. It is often mentioned here in the debate, it was also last time, and it finally appeared here today in the speech by the Minister of Finance that it is not possible to argue only by Croatia that other countries have a system of registering cash registers. The example of Austria has been mentioned several times as a country close to us, where some form of electronic treasury is being considered. I think that the case of Austria is to a large extent illustrative and that it should be mentioned here indeed, but that it should be mentioned here in all contexts. That is, including the Austrian debates that have been held on electronic cash registers. And how the political debates ended and what the system in Austria eventually resulted or will result. So if we look at several of the mentioned Austria, we will find that there should really be an electronic cash register system that is much less strict and otherwise designed than what is going to happen in the Czech Republic - because the Croatian model is really coming - and that these cash registers should have been introduced since January 2016. In the end, however, after a very large public debate and after a discussion and political policy, this measure will be effective only from January 2017, with a number of exceptions for small entrepreneurs, for small entrepreneurs with a turnover of up to 15 thousand. EUR or in the case of marketers without a stone shop even with exceptions for those who reach 30 000. EUR per year. The result of the displacement and the introduction of a number of exceptions into the system - or the fact that it had shifted efficiency and that a number of exceptions were introduced into the system - was due to the very debate and by the fact that entrepreneurs themselves began to realize what the introduction of electronic cash registers in the original proposal would mean to them. They began to argue against it in public and finally convinced a number of politicians who were originally in favour that, in the form in which the government proposed it, it was not good. Here, there was a slight questioning that a businessman or businessman was saying something, writing a letter or expressing what electronic sales records meant to him, and that we cannot take it completely seriously. In Austria, the opinion of individual entrepreneurs was also heard, and society took it seriously, or politicians took it seriously. Well, I think we can take it seriously. For example, in Austria, the argument of the owner of the knob shop was discussed - you can smile, but that is also quite a serious business - specifically in Salzburg, which found that thousands of different types of buttons would have to carry the item after the item into the electronic system to be able to bill them in any way. Salzburg restaurant spokesperson Ernst Fierlinger calculated that the acquisition of high-quality cash desks for ten waiters in shift means an investment of 20 thousand. EUR. And so I could go on. This means that when businessmen and entrepreneurs come to us today and say to us, "I beg you, my business is your idea, a government idea, threatened, and it means this and this to me," and you wave your hand over it, it's not right. A similar debate is being held in other countries, similar views have been heard by Austrian tradesmen. Again, what was going on in Austria is incomparable with what this government wants to introduce here. With the impending effectiveness that, as I said, should have been since January 2016, more complaints and more and more politicians, and I would like to see such politicians grow in our government camp, who began to realize that the idea was not the best, and at least consider delay. He was the first to speak publicly for the delay of the most influential man of the government's popular party, the long-time Dolnorakous governor Ervin Pröll, who supported the project in the spring. The government has clearly condemned the head of the Association of Austrian Industry Georg Kapsch for these intentions, according to which this is another step towards the introduction of a supervisory state. I'd quote Mr. Kapsch here. "From an economic point of view, these are the yields that are behind the decimal point. It's just an emotional thing to do. In the country there is a belief that every businessman is a potential tax fraud," Kapsch said in an interview for Der Standard and added that cheating with taxes is already impossible due to frequent checks by various authorities. "The controls are blocking everything. If you have to make sure you follow all the rules, how do you even manage to do business?" asks Kapsch and fears, like many other Austrian entrepreneurs, that the final result of this so-called. the state's campaign against tax evasion may be that the economy will stop and that Austria will experience a lost decade of zero growth, as has recently happened to Japan. Ladies and gentlemen, you can think what you want about this, but you have to acknowledge it. This was the case in Austria, with these arguments represented by tradesmen and entrepreneurs, these results, these conclusions were reached by politicians of social democracy and Austrian people after this discussion took place and reduced and postponed what they originally proposed. [[10.20 hours]] And you can see here also from the argument that I introduced you here from Austrian entrepreneurs or the head of the Union of Industry, that when we are talking about that it will threaten business, that it is another attack on entrepreneurs, that it is part of the way to introduce socialist, controlling, raising, or as he used the term Überwachungsstaat, that is, the seer state, that it is not an argument that we are making up here and that we are scaring people, but it is an argument that is against similar ideas, and I repeat, ideas to a much lesser extent, much less intense, much less superficial, much less online, and I do not know what it will mean here that similar criticism appears against it in other societies and from people that are definitely - the head of the Confederation of Industry in Austria - we must take seriously and consider them seriously. We, the Civil Democratic Party, are rejecting the electronic record of sales for the very same reasons that were mentioned here in the Austrian debate I interpreted. The electronic record of sales, and so far, on the basis of the debate that is going on here, I have not reached another conclusion, is a symptom for us, it is a symbol of the efforts of the current coalition government to introduce a surveillance state, a new form of socialism, to control and regulate, at any cost. Here I would like to use one more quote, which reads as follows: Economic regulation is not just a power over one part of human life that can be separated from others. It is regulation of the means for our goals, and if someone is in control of the means, they must also determine what goals are to serve, which values are greater and which have less weight, in short, what people believe in and what they should fight for. So if we control and regulate, we limit human freedom in a significant way and ultimately determine what people should believe in and what they should fight for. This is a quote I took from the book of Friedrich Hayek from 1944, a book where he warned of the road to socialist hell, which is, of course, always paved with good intentions at first sight. I think the situation is being reproduced to some extent, and the dangers of traveling to socialism that Hayek warned about back in the '40s, the danger is on the table again, and we're facing that danger here. And you can't blame us for those of us who don't want to have a supervisory state that doesn't want to have a state that determines our lives in all the details, that we resist such measures. Electronic sales log as a kind of area restriction to everyone, it's not the thing that fell out of the sky here. She fits into this whole mosaic of measures where the role of a state is strengthened here, which is suddenly supposed to control us, raise us, and determine everything for us. To determine which pub you can smoke in and where you can't, how much beer, how much lemonade will cost you, what I have to wear in the evening when I go to that pub, dress up because I'll wear a reflective vest to be seen or reflexes on clothes and things like that the state doesn't have to do at all. The state wants to tell me that I have to send my kids to kindergarten, tell school principals what to do with the kids' entrance exams, tell us all when and where we can go shopping on the holiday and where we can't. These are all things where state or government MPs think this with us very well and every measure is very well justified and it concerns all the common good and it all has to make us think that it is good for our health, good for our children's education, that it is good for the better life of society, but behind it hides the belief that it is a state that knows what is good for our education, that it is a state that knows what is good for our children, that it is a state that is better than we know how we want to organize leisure, that it is a state that knows what can sell, buy and when those sales and purchases can take place. And all of this includes electronic sales records. But ladies and gentlemen, and that's my conviction - you can have others, you can have lefties, you can think that here you're supposed to be the one who controls us all, but I don't think so, and I won't think so, and I'm going to fight it, and that's why I'm going to fight against electronic sales records. Whenever the state begins to control our lives, whenever society is bound, absolutely bound by regulations, whenever bureaucracy and justice make our lives necessary, whenever it begins to have security over certain risks, against freedom, well-being begins to prevail before freedom, so always the embryo of socialist society is created. And it all looks good at first, but in the end, it's a society that can't be lived in. And I'm afraid that what we're going to do here with all sorts of government ideas, that's the way to some new form of socialism, to the new central management of all of us from the state, and that's the way I don't want to go. Of course, it's not that naive, and when I talk about socialism here, I don't mean real socialism, I don't mean a return to what was here before 1989, no one can be that naive, and eventually, the classic Marxism-Leninism and their inspiring Hegel knew that development was following a spiral. So, of course, socialism is different, socialism is managerial, which contains elements of the free market and retains some of our individual freedom, especially in the field of consumption, and does not need any Communist party anymore and does not need anything like that, but needs strong leaders and needs so-called. experts and experts who will organize our company for us. And here I would remind the classic, Hayek of the '40s, when he says: "The Socialists believe that we must remove the proceedings from the hands of politicians and place them in the hands of experts." So I would like everyone here to talk about how experts should rule and how political debate and democracy is laborious to remember this Hayekův quote, because when they say about themselves: we are also right-wing, and what they believe is that they are actually left-wing people who are directing this society to socialism, which, as I have already said, is totally unacceptable for me and my colleagues from the Civil Democratic Party. These executive socio-nazis, which is why it is justified to talk about managerial socialism, these executive socio-nazis in state governance prefer efficiency, as I say, it's nothing new, warned about it already Hayek, and they like to express, and that is typical, fatigue and disgust from democracy, which bothers and delayes us all. Even the Minister of Finance did not forgive himself when he said: stalling at work is not a democracy. And here we hear it from the government coalition: there's been enough debate to keep us here, we want to adopt more and more laws, let's end it, you don't have the right to debate here for a long time. Of course, we have that right and we need to be able to make all the arguments and we can have the full debate. It's not a hold-up. It is a normal standard part of democracy, a democratic debate in Parliament to be held. Let me just quote one more time to put this whole thing in a historical context so we don't think there's a fight going on here that's kind of specific. The quote reads: "Democracy extends the area of individual freedom, socialism restricts it. Democracy attaches all possible value to every human being, socialism makes every man a mere executor, a mere number. Democracy and socialism have only one word in common, namely equality. But let us note the difference - while democracy seeks equality in freedom, socialism seeks equality in restraint and obedience." Those words were spoken by Alexis de Tocqueville in 1848. But these words and this conflict also apply to the Czech Republic today. And when many times the representatives of the government coalition have covered themselves with equality, equality of conditions for entrepreneurs, equalizing the business environment, it is exactly the negative equality that Tocqueville is talking about in 1848. [[10.30 hours]] The equality that we should be concerned about and which is concerned with democracy is equality in freedom. Equality of restraint, equality of obedience is not equality that is compatible with democracy. This is equality, which is, on the contrary, compatible with socialism. In this sense, I can say that the arguments for the introduction of the EET, as we hear them from government officials, mean a departure from the values that have created the conditions for the development of democratic pluralism, free market and personal initiatives in the last 20 years or more. The introduction of the EET will essentially result in state supervision of business, distortion of the market and competitive environment. We're going to step up to a state-run economy. And after all, it's not my threat. The Croatian Finance Minister Lalovac, mentioned by me at my last speech, clearly said at the EET conference that they need to monitor every entrepreneur in Croatia and want to manage the economy. And there you have it. This is no warning or haunting from the ODS. This is the goal of the EET, as understood by the Croatian Finance Minister. I think that even on the basis of arguments and inclusion in a certain historical context of the struggle between democracy and the temptation to create a Socialist state that you can see from this that a number of measures that the government is preparing are motivated by the idea of social engineering and brings us back. Or it leads us back to some new form of socialism. And that's why the government is spouting an idea for one new control after another, which is why we have surveillance reports, records, records, registers, and a lot of other things. Because there's an environment where no one trusts anyone and where it's better to control everyone, because businessmen are robbing everyone, as the government repeatedly pushes or suggests. Of course EET, I put it not only in the historical context, but also in the context of the other measures that Sobotkův's government prepared for free enterprise in the Czech Republic, or at all for the company in the Czech Republic. But I cannot remind again that the EET is also related to another measure that we have also warned about, which unfortunately has passed and has not been postponed, and this is a VAT check report. Here too, the minister spoke of the sanctions that are about to be imposed on entrepreneurs. These sanctions are absolutely devastating. Or devastating - dramatic and inadequate to what an entrepreneur can forget or do. You will only send electronic submissions via the e-mail address of the Financial Administration or data box. And those who do not do so and turn to Financial Administration with classic forms and tax returns are at risk of a fine of CZK 2,000 to CZK 50,000. In the case of a control report, a fixed fine of CZK 1000 will be granted in the event of its failure to submit it if the entrepreneur corrects it in time before the financial office's call. If he does so after the challenge, he will have a fine of CZK 10,000. Those who do not report on the basis of the call for submission will receive CZK 50,000, etc. Here you can see the impact of sanctions in the VAT control report. After all, this is an example of a kind of liquidation campaign by the government against the private sector. But when I talk about the context of the EET and the VAT check report, there's another connection that we can't miss either. On the basis of the inspection report, the state will have a list of all customers and suppliers and on the basis of the EET it will have detailed information about sales. And if we add to that the upcoming Central Account Register Act, we're going to have a complex picture where the state has incredible amounts of sensitive data that we don't know how they're gonna be protected from abuse and who's gonna have access to. Thus, there is a relatively high risk of violating the protection of freedom, freedom of privacy and trade secrets and harm to legitimate business interests. In this context, it is not without interest that the representative of the Croatian Financial Directorate, in her contribution to the conference held by the Ministry of Finance here, said: "We wanted to enable the entrepreneurs to see how they are doing and how the others are doing their own business, thanks to the fiscalisation of the EET. " So, ladies and gentlemen, answer for yourself the question of the purpose of implementing such a system and why we should support such a system. Why should entrepreneurs see the others doing business? What's that for? Even entrepreneurs do not need such information in a democratic and functioning market economy, nor does the state need it. And by the way, when I was talking about sensitive data, there was a risk of breach of protection, that data could be misused. Here I hear it: but it's perfectly secure and everything. I don't understand information technology very closely, but I read or watch the media. I have recently noticed that the personal correspondence of the Prime Minister of the Czech Government is not secured either. We read it here in virtually all the media repeatedly. Well, please, how does a state that can't even secure the Prime Minister's correspondence secure all those sensitive data that have such economic significance and such economic impact? By enforcing the current form of the EET Act, including the consequences I have mentioned here, the government only confirms my words that what it does not bind by regulation and permanent supervision, it considers suspicious. That's an approach we really can't accept. And I think that is an approach that is very unfair to businessmen and entrepreneurs. I would like to quote here two letters that I have selected from a huge number of e-mails and letters that I receive from businessmen and entrepreneurs, and my colleagues, who share their concerns with us, are also receiving them with their opinion on the introduction of the EET. I think it's a good thing that the voters' opinions, as well as the businessmen's opinions, those on whom this is going, should be heard here, and it was clear what those people were worried about. Of course, I have names at my disposal, and those people signed it, and there's no problem with it, but I'm not going to publish them here, because I don't want to put them at risk of being controlled beyond the principle of equality that has been mentioned here, because such cases, or at least the impression of such cases, have occurred in the past that those who criticized the EET or some of the ideas of the Ministry of Finance have been subjected to checks. [[10.40 hours]] So I quote, "Hello. I'm a trained grocery salesman. Until 1991, I was an employee of the Pramen. Since 1993, I've been a self-employed person, prosperous. So now a vulnerable group of economically active residents of the Czech Republic. If EET is put into practice, I will stop the food sales business and look for another job. My time, I'm 50 years old, I'm starting to appreciate it more and more. I employed five employees three years ago, now I have three, but I guess they'll end up with me. I know that food sales control must be, but the EET is a total bureaucratic burden on small and small businessmen and entrepreneurs. Incredible complications in introducing EET into practice in other countries only confirm my decision. So much for an opinion from practice in the field, from East Moravia. Have a good day. etc.' Here you can see how businessmen and businessmen are looking at it, what they're worried about, and that their fears are far from being distracted, and that it's not that they want to sell something without knowing about it, and cheating. They're afraid of a huge bureaucratic burden, and they feel that this is a threat to their business. I said two, so another private opinion. I quote: "I guess I'll start with my father's business, and I, as his only son, looked up to him and tried to understand everything. This also developed in the selection of high school. But my business became very disgusted by the current government. The proposal on electronic records of sales from the YES workshop of the Minister of Finance is clear evidence of this. On the one hand, I understand his decision, or the grey economy needs to be considerably reduced. But why in this way? After all, only the investment that the entrepreneur will have to invest in the business, such as the registration cash register linked to the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic, other x forms etc. Compared to the US, where a single form is completed, there are already so many forms in the Czech Republic that one should reserve several pens and a few days. Another minus, or another deterrent thing on the EET from business is that an entrepreneur will have to watch his costs very much, or he will increase the general cost of production for example. [[networks, energy, etc.]] Of course, this will also be reflected in the price of the product, so the speech that EET does not touch ordinary consumers is also - politely put - bullshit. For this reason, I no longer think about business, and I think I'm not the only one." Once again, the signature follows. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a selection of e-mails I receive, my colleagues receive, I'm sure many of you receive. I think it is not possible to take this lightly when people who want to do business, who want to do business honestly, who even express an understanding that the state is fighting a grey economy, not those who want nothing to be controlled, have doubts about the electronic record of sales. What about the doubt? They're very worried about it. I think that, even on the basis of the above opinions, it can be seen that the current development or trend that the government coalition has set up here is, for many of our citizens who are active, hardworking, willing to take risks, taking responsibility for their lives, that the development is demotivating. And the concern that came from my mouth here, but also from a number of my colleagues, that there could be a repeat of the scenario that was repeated in Croatia, that many of these people would just end their business, that the concerns were not idle. Finally, people express it in their reactions. I understand, of course, that if the government is leaning towards some idea, or what I called managerial socialism, it is hard to expect it to understand that the foundations of a prosperous society are not based on the mechanisms of perfect area management and control, but that they are currently built on the value of individual motivation, the motivation to work hard, develop their talent, risk, produce new things, give up comfort, adapt to change, etc. But in order to do this, or to allow those who want to do business to develop these values, the values on which each society's prosperity is built, by the way, they need freedom from the state to do so. And for that, they need not only freedom, but also trust. And restricting freedom not only in business - I have mentioned here a number of other examples of restrictions on freedom - by the current government is an expression of distrust of government towards citizens, an expression of distrust of autonomy for each of us to decide what is good and bad for him. Here I am thinking of the words that I once said in this Parliament, the words of Milton Friedman, that one of the motives behind restricting freedom of the free market is fear of freedom itself. Well, I just hope this isn't the motivation of the current government. However, a number of these steps - and the electronic record of sales is the culmination of a number of those steps - lead to such suspicion, because the main attack is led to a group of businessmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and these are the very people who do not need many services of an ever stronger corporate-clientelist system, who are independent and who are the most difficult to blackmail, or the government will reach them worst. Businessmen and small businessmen cannot be bought for social benefits because they prefer little, but what is theirs, and they want freedom, and that they can make decisions about their lives, and not that someone keeps talking to them about it. But here it seems that this is something that provokes the current government and where the current government is trying to go in different ways against the very tradesmen and entrepreneurs. And unfortunately, here we are witnessing the instigation of some kind of artificial, in the reality of a non-existent, artificial conflict between state administration and employees on the one hand and businessmen and middle and small entrepreneurs on the other. This is a conflict that the government consciously or unconsciously provokes and should lead us all to a maximum degree of caution. And we should reject the confrontation. I would have used the Minister of Finance's statement here to illustrate the atmosphere of the class struggle - take it with exaggeration - when he said in March last year: "Everyone would like to enter today, but it is not bad to at least try employment at first and find success in hard work." The Minister may not have meant it, but the quote shows that business is not really the hard work. If any of you think so, I would recommend that you do what I've been doing over the past few months and years, and actually bypass businessmen and businessmen, but not by meeting them at a meeting, but by going to their stores and asking them how they're doing, what they're dealing with, what it means to employ, what it means to keep a business. These are people who do not know working hours, weekends, do not have a few weeks paid vacation, guarantee their livelihood with all their belongings, and yet they can take care of themselves and their family, give jobs to others, and eventually take their paychecks last if they are left with them. Here we hear from a series of representatives of the government coalition that these people are not admitting something out there, hiding something somewhere, they're actually taking the billions that we could have in the state budget, and so we need to check them all across the board because that's where the leaks are happening. Well, I don't know, these people are controlled, they can be controlled, I'm convinced, and I have proof that the state's control tools are sufficient, but here the impression is that they all need to be controlled and priori, that they all need to be controlled by general restrictions, because otherwise they are committing this fraudulent act. And to me, to people who risk doing this to create some value to maintain their business, that seems incredibly offensive to me. [[10.50 hours]] I would also like to remind everyone that small and medium-sized enterprises, including tradesmen in the Czech Republic, employ more than 60 percent of people, not that most of the employees are in large companies, but 60 percent of all employees are in small and medium-sized enterprises, in businessmen. Small and medium-sized enterprises also account for more than 50 percent of both exports and imports. So for the Czech economy, the small ones are crucial from many points of view. And that's clearly not what the government sees. Here again, I can use one quote from a member of the government saying, "Small and medium-sized enterprises are clichés and bullshit. We need to support the great industry that has the tradition. That you're helping start innovating companies, that's great, but it's useless." I did not quote correctly here because there was a word used here that I do not want to use in the Chamber of Deputies. But it expresses a certain attitude of government towards small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, which is also reflected in ideas such as electronic sales records. And, of course, the state adds further steps to show how it looks at businessmen and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs - cutting spending flats, laying bail, proposing an increase in compulsory health insurance contributions and so on and so on. I'm not going to go back to that thousand-time simile of one of the ministers of this government of tradesmen to parasites. And even if it wasn't enough, the head of the Czech Moravian Trade Union Confederation - and the unions are now one hand with the government - would go further and the tradesmen would only allow only one third of the plaster or valve in their health care treatment, because they say they are only taking only one third of what employees do to the health insurance system. At the same time, the comparison of employees' and businessmen's health contributions does not stand. In order to earn the same CZK 25,000 that an employee has to take on business risks, he has to buy production and labour resources, he is not under the protection of the Labour Code and often cannot afford to be sick. Now get your shit straight. Compare the government's approach to businessmen and entrepreneurs, but not on the basis of some talk, but on the basis of the specific measures I have reminded you of here, and take the government's approach to civil servants and civil servants. Their numbers are increasing, their salaries are increasing by CZK 10 billion, and they are guaranteed tenfold in the form of a service law by which the government has concreted its people at the offices, and so on. And against that, one after another, you have a government measure that complicates the lives of businessmen and small businessmen. That's how you get to know them after the fruit. Here you can clearly see how the government looks at those who do business. And I can guarantee you one thing. Here, if you look at the actions of the current government, you won't find a budget cut by an office, you won't find restrictions on the authority of the state, you won't find an elimination of some regulation, but it's all increasing. And what I can guarantee you is that in this way you will not achieve any tax increases, you will not achieve more effective control, you will not achieve better functioning of the state. You will only achieve that here you will restore some elements of a supervisory state, a socialist state, and that is a state that, historically, has proved to be completely dysfunctional many times. So even in this context, we need to see the electronic record of sales, because its harmfulness is not only given in what will be the state, it is not only given in the economic impacts, but, unfortunately, in relation to the other steps of Sobotkův's government, it is also socially dangerous, because it deepens the artificial trench between individual population groups and fixes in society, or aims to fix in society part of the government coalition's conviction that entrepreneurs are frauders or potential con artists. And I think it's unforgivable, and we can't stand by. It is also shown by the quotes I have made here from emails and letters from businessmen and entrepreneurs. It has one more impact and that is that the government basically demotivates the citizens of the Czech Republic to do business. This is something that in the future is a significant threat to the entrepreneurial spirit that is needed for this country to prosper. I know that - and this is also seen from the actions of the current government - you are interested in the present and you are not interested in the future. You guys can cancel the second pension pillar without knowing what to do with pensions. You guys can cancel health fees without knowing how to finance the health system in the future. And you can simply bind businessmen, demotivate them without knowing how to ensure the prosperity of the Czech Republic in the future. Yes, we are now in a situation where the economy is growing, where you have large revenues for the state budget without your credit, but it is the credit of a sensible policy of previous governments. But this will stop one day and the government cannot think that way. The government must take care of the future of the Czech Republic and also of future prosperity. Averting or disrupting social cohesion and demotivating people to do business is dangerous in terms of future prosperity. I also think it is a huge paradox to assume that the introduction - or to justify the introduction of electronic records of sales by aligning the business environment, reducing tax evasion and combating the grey economy. I understand it's part of the rhetoric, the propaganda, but it's not true. Last time I performed, I tried to show you - and here somebody said: well that was inaccurately interpreted - on very specific figures, but mainly on relevant interpretations of authors such as Feld, Schmidt, Schneider and OECD analyses, including interpretations that the fight against the grey economy must be conducted by completely different means than the deterrents of the area restrictions. But I understand that you're trying to inspire some kind of fairness and transparency of this system with your stated reasons. However, that must be said clearly, that is not true. The system will bring no fairness and transparency, on the contrary, as I have tried to show here, will lead, firstly, to the deepening of the trench between the state and private sphere, unfortunately also probably to the tide of part of the grey economy into black, thirdly, to the emergence of competitive advantages for privileged groups, and fourthly, unprecedentedly, it interferes with citizens' personal freedoms. At the end of my performance, I'm going to explain the four points that I just mentioned a little bit. Firstly, I ask how the government wants to create greater conditions for the fairness of tax collection in a situation where the state will redistribute almost half of what it chooses, thereby actually creating large groups of people who depend on contributions from the state. I'm deliberately using the same logic here, she's a little absurd, I admit it, but it's the same logic that the government coalition argues. In fact, if we use the same logic with which the government, for example, accuses tradesmen of cheating, parasites on the system, or parasites on employees' contributions, we can say that everyone who is dependent on income from the state is thus favoured against tradesmen at a high rate of redistribution. You feel that this argument is absurd in many ways, but it is in the same logic that you argue against businessmen and entrepreneurs here. And the rhetoric of fairness here conceals the socialist logic of class struggle. [[11.00 hours]] Two. According to a number of findings from abroad, one of the important prerequisites for reducing the share of the informal grey economy is to strengthen confidence that the State supplies useful services. On the contrary, as I mentioned in my previous speech, many empirical studies show that the grey economy is growing with increasing restrictions on the part of the state. And once again, here we have the subject of freedom and trust as a key factor that contributes to the prosperity of the country. But that doesn't include electronic sales records. The electronic record of sales is just another area restriction from the state, which does not help to create wealth but to distribute it more. Why a bigger redistribution? Because we're going to have to have money for salaries for new officials, state and customs, the cost of new software and hardware and other things that the state provides. In the logic of these foreign experiences, there is therefore a great likelihood that the government will help spin the wheels of the grey economy. And we don't want that, because we said here, even though some of you are smiling over it, but it's just true that the grey economy is below the level in the Czech Republic, or at the level of the average, it's a bit fluctuating, developed OECD states, and it's closer to Germany than Croatia. Three. The government is trying to devalue the private business and the consumer's freedom of demand to a large extent with the caricature of the innkeeper who cheats and the customer who pays for the wood, and that's why we need an electronic record of sales in order to level up the business environment here, and customers have been deprived of the manner of stealing greenery. But electronic sales records, and that's what we need to see behind the cartoon and behind the superficial rhetoric, electronic sales records will generate a huge amount of data. And let's not be fooled by the fact that this concerns only cash payments. Payment will be registered by cheque, bill, meal vouchers, gift vouchers, and will also be recorded by the relevant revenue affecting the company's tax base, fines, periodic penalty payments, bail and so on and so on. And when I mentioned here the Croatian finance minister, who, as we heard earlier, was a source of inspiration for our Ministry of Finance, Mr. Babiš, I will quote him once more. During his visit to the Czech Republic, he praised the benefits of EET and said: We see not only how much money an entrepreneur has in his account and how he transfers the money, but we can also see whether the person was buying real estate, vehicles or shares. We can manage not only taxes but also economic activities, because the state has the information immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, the opposition has not invented this, which is haunting something. This was said by the Croatian Finance Minister, where electronic records were introduced. And a huge amount of data about who, when, what, and how much he buys, when it all comes together, electronic records, control reports, and other things, that vast amount of data is a very valuable source of information. Of course, for the Finance Minister, as the Croatian Finance Minister praised, but if anyone could access the data, it is also a large and valuable source of data for any big businessman. And I apologize, but there is just one and the same person in the Czech Republic, so let no one be surprised that there are questions about who will use the data, how it will be used and whether they are by chance exploitable and why the Minister of Finance is so attached to the project of electronic sales records, and in that Croatian form, with the huge amount of data obtained online put into practice in the Czech Republic. It is clear that whoever holds the information that will be obtained in this way will have an enormous advantage. I'm not accusing anyone here, I'm not saying that it's 100% true, but we'd be blind if we didn't see the danger, and if that suspicion didn't exist here, if it hadn't been repeatedly mentioned. And even this should be tried to disprove, because the huge amount of data - and we here and the example that I set at the beginning of my performance - see that the state is unable to protect a number of data at all - so this huge amount of data is incredibly exploitable. If someone has them and is able to evaluate which company is suitable for purchase, which competitor sells when and what, with whom it is appropriate to negotiate market positions, who can be ignored in peace, and so on and so on, then they can use it to liquidate competition and, of course, especially to liquidate smaller players on the market. That's what I think is a danger that we can't possibly underestimate. I still don't see any advantage in electronic sales records here other than facilitating the central management of our economy. So this is an advantage that I consider to be a complete disadvantage, a step backwards, and it is an advantage that we should all fight as hard as possible. I think that voters should be concerned, including the voters of government parties, that government-designed law that gathers a huge amount of business data and our behavior, that the law doesn't actually protect data from escape and abuse. The government introduces electronic records of sales without any guarantee of privacy and security for each of us, and I therefore do not consider that to be an increase in fairness and cannot be considered. Four. If electronic sales records are to contribute to the settlement and improvement of the business environment, why is the law, as it is prepared, why does the law create legal uncertainty and force entrepreneurs to live probably according to the practice of judicial interpretation? What do I mean? For example, the fact that it contains terminological confusion and does not explain who is entitled to authorize and issue one of the essential elements of the EET system, the so-called fiscal identification key. Above all, the law is full of exceptions and it will not affect all market participants equally. For example, without parliamentary scrutiny, the government will be able to determine what revenues can be recorded in a simplified regime, which sales will not be covered by the registration at all. Yet, when a government can do this without parliamentary scrutiny, it creates room for corruption, or at least suspicion of corruption. Groups will be formed to use economic privileges at the expense of others, all of which are limited to one of the basic principles of representative parliamentary democracy, such as the legislative control of executives. So even in this case, the law raises a number of questions and a number of suspicions for which it cannot be accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, I think I have also explained enough in response to the debate that started here on December 18 after my speech, that he has explained enough other reasons that lead us to reject electronic sales records, that I have convincingly shown that the current government is trying to regulate society's behaviour and conduct instead of caring about what it really has, and that is the effective enforcement of the basic rules of the game, because that is what we would agree with the government. But we disagree with her in an attempt to regulate our lives, behavior and behavior, and we disagree with her in the idea of broad restrictions with the belief that everyone is stealing and that it is necessary to tame entrepreneurs in this way. [[11.10 hours]] I want to make it clear that we understand the role of a state as a state that is actually looking for all the solutions to collect taxes, but cannot transfer this role to entrepreneurs and businessmen, even with their own money, as is happening in the case of electronic sales records. And I wasn't convinced by the Minister of Finance in his opening speech when he said that electronic records of sales levelled the environment and was not discriminated against by small entrepreneurs and businessmen. I do not know if it is so easy to question data that only a small part of the planned tax evasion, i.e. 7 percent, goes to the detriment of businessmen and entrepreneurs, and yet the Ministry of Finance is focusing its main efforts on this group. I think a much more likely interpretation will be the one that I offered here, and that is that the focus on small businessmen and entrepreneurs is precisely because the government coalition does not trust them, considers them suspicious and tries to make their business more difficult. Ladies and gentlemen, of all the things I have said, the obvious view of the Civil Democratic Party is that Sobotkův's government by its own measures, including electronic sales records, destructs the natural economic and social processes and values on which this company has been operating for 20 years, and we are worried if we don't stop it, if we don't stop it, and if we don't stop it from doing so in such matters as electronic sales records, we will all bear the costs of the Sobotkův and Babišův's surveillance experiments here in the future in the event of their successful enforcement. Therefore, have an understanding of our principled and unchanging attitude that we will do everything we can to ensure that one of those socialist measures, namely electronic sales records, does not come into force. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u17	Thank you to Chairman Fial. Another duly registered priority right is the President of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Sorry, there's one more point of fact. Mr. Bohuslav Chalupa. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u18	Good morning, esteemed colleagues. First of all, let me wish you all the best in 2016. Now, get to the point. I don't want to, because here the impression may be that we're sitting here in those benches, and apathetically, it's like we're looking at what's going on here. We've just been meeting here for a few times, and I just want to disprove that feeling. We're not gonna sit here apathetically anymore. I want to say this: it is perfectly legitimate for the opposition to disagree that it simply does not agree that it seeks problems, that it raises amendments, but if we are referring here to parliamentary democracy, then the only relevant procedure is to put it to a vote, because all of us here have been elected by a mandate and we are entitled to fulfil this mandate and to fulfil the political will of the electorate. And the only way we can figure out whether the House agrees with the law or disagrees is to vote it out. For the third or fourth time, we meet here to the exact same thing, listen to the same things, waste our time, which we should spend in committees over solving really serious problems, and there have been so many words about this that it is really time to put it to a vote. Let the House show its will and respect the will of the citizens who elected us here, whether we are from the opposition or from the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u19	Thank you, Mr Chalupa. Mr Josef Hájek, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u20	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I understand President Fial, through Mr President. He took over the party at a time when a proud blue bird became a wet hen. With preferences of 5%. Now for the hard-working, and it has my tribute, with the constant dullness of the nation trying to win on its side a certain group of tradesmen. I think the dishonest ones. I, by common sense, calculate a 3 percent increase in preferences, it's some 150,000 voters on the electoral base. So when you're here to discuss how many of the dishonest ones there are - I think it's the 150 grand who are rightfully worried that EET is gonna be looking at their fingers. That's my layman look, and I don't think I'm wrong. I'll pick on both of them. Please, this is the Rules of Procedure of the Municipal Council of Prague 2, where the mayor is Mrs. Černochová. Here in these Rules of Procedure, the same rules are laid down for all. Every representative, whether he's coalition or opposition, has the same rights. There's no vice-president here, as we have an envoy. That's what bothers me. Here we have an envoy who can perform here anytime, anywhere, talk about anything, etc. What's the difference? I've become a representative too. I was told here at the beginning that the representatives and Members are working on the same principle. Yes, I agree. That is why there are some rules of procedure, 6,000 municipalities and cities where they work with their constituents, and they respect the rules of procedure. Here are the limits, twice five minutes, there is Mr. Svoboda, how can opposition Mrs. Michaela Marksová benefit from her opposition rights when she is strangled here? [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] So either these Rules of Procedure are wrong in Prague 2 and another 6,000, or our MP here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With another factual remark, President Fiala. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u22	Mr Hájek, through Mr President, I have noticed in the past that when someone touched you, perhaps your speech, and mentioned your former profession or made a joke of it, you responded very deeply. And I understand you, and I find these things tacky. But it's just as tacky and offensive to me to say that I'm defending someone dishonest. You may disagree with my political views, you have the right to say so, but you have no right to say so. Look at my life, look at what I've been through, then look me in the eye and tell me I'm defending dishonest people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u23	I thank the President and now duly signed up with priority rights, Mr President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u24	Thank you for the floor. Well, first of all, beyond what I've prepared, short reactions. As a longtime member of the city council of Opava, I must say that in the municipal law, the right of Members to speak at any time at the council. No one has suggested, nor have you, Mr Hájek, through the Vice-President, that this right, which all Members have with regard to municipal politicians, be abolished. When you talk about your superiors, you seem to mean Members with priority rights. So let's figure out how many preferential rights a government coalition has, how many preferential rights the opposition has. We have two, colleagues from TOP 09 have three, communists have two, and from Dawn it's one. That's all. The government has 17 members, you have 17 priority rights to that House leadership, you have three, that's 20, then you have party presidents, club presidents, so let's say 24, sometimes those functions intersect, so you have more than double the priority rights. And when we discussed the Rules of Procedure, and we last approved the amendment in 2014, you did not suggest such a thing. It's just to the edge of the show. Unlike you, I will try not to engage in personal assaults and insult anyone. First, I must return to what happened in this Chamber of Deputies on Friday, December 11, when the government majority under the baton of the movement, of which Mr Hájek is a member, decided, namely, that it was directed and under the baton of Mr Faltýnek and Mrs Jermanová, knowingly flagrantly breaking the law, the Rules of Procedure, the rights of the democratic opposition, but also ordinary human decency, to take the floor of someone who speaks to the point. On the other hand, maybe surprisingly, I want to thank you for that. Even in the best scenario of our fight for the EET, I didn't think that after two hours of third reading, most government MPs, not all, would break the law. I didn't expect you to make it easy for us from the very beginning. [[11.20 hours]] We can argue whether we're performing long enough, whether we're stalling or obstructing this law. I want to say that we are using the Rules of Procedure, in particular the provisions that for the third reading they are set aside in the Law of Hours, on Wednesdays and Fridays 9 to 14. I mean, it came into the law after 12 years of the operation of the Czech Parliament. It was not in the law since 1 January 1993, it was in the law in 2004, when the then government majority wanted to facilitate the negotiation of government bills in the Chamber of Deputies, it was a government coalition of social democracy, the KDU-ČSL and the Union of Freedom, and they pushed this paragraph into the Rules of Procedure. If you look in the anals, you'll find that there was a very tight government majority back then. As former Prime Minister, I know how difficult it is to have a majority every second in the Chamber of Deputies, so you've made your job easier. I mean, none of the ODS members at the time voted for change at all. Even then, we said that the restriction was not right, but today, those who put up with it are whining. To be nominal, when I looked at the screen, the vote was 437, it took place on April 8, 2004, and let's see who was among those who were in favour. I don't want to read all of them, most of them were tight, but they were. For example, for today's Prime Minister, Mr Bohuslav Sobotka, the leader of the change, the one who presented it and defended it, today's foreign minister, Lubomír Zaorálek. Among those who voted in favour is today's Minister of Industry and Trade Mr Mládek. But that's not all. I often read the angry comments of Professor Jičínský in Law, how the opposition exploits obstruction and how wrong it is. Professor Jičínský voted in favour of this amendment of the Rules of Procedure because he wanted to facilitate most of the government's work. Also today's president of the NKÚ, who very often critically talks about the work of the executive, or the Chamber of Deputies or the Senate, voted in favour. Today's President of the Office for the Protection of Competition, then a member of social democracy, also voted in favour. Why am I talking about this? Because it became clear that the deliberate amendment to the Rules of Procedure eventually turned against those who, for their own reasons, wanted to make it easier on themselves. And today I hear again the reflection on how the Rules of Procedure need to be amended, because the government coalition is failing to enforce one single law. Maybe you'll succeed, maybe you'll be happy. But I'm almost certain that in a few years, either you or your successors will be whining about what a bad negotiating order is and how the opposition is using it, that you thought otherwise at the time. I'm warning you about this. But you have a majority, you can change that. On this case, however, I want to show where the special-purpose changes to the law lead. In the end, they often turn against those who suggested it. Very often you see it in electoral law. On the basis of the previous elections, many think about how to change the rules so that, with the same result, they have a larger number of mandates, a stronger majority, and also very often, changes will eventually turn against the person who proposed them. I'd like to lose a few words at the beginning of my performance about whether or not obstruction rules. We've had approximately two years of operation of the Chamber of Deputies, a little bit longer when we count the constituent meetings before the institutions and so on. During that time, the Chamber of Deputies passed a total of 167 laws. That's the pace of 83.5 law per year. That seems enough to me for someone to be oriental about it, more than one law per week goes out for those who are to follow it. Of this, 146 government, 18 parliamentary bills, regardless of whether they were filed by government or opposition MPs, and three Senate bills. As citizens' democrats, we voted in favour of 93 government bills out of 146, 53 cases were when we did not support the government law, so overall we supported 63.7 percent of government bills. For the MPs, our balance sheet is 12 pros, six versus, which means exactly two-thirds, and for Senate proposals, the balance sheet is exactly the same, twice we were in favour, once against, once again two-thirds. When we add this up, we as an opposition club supported a total of 107 laws out of 167 and that's 64 percent. I think the words about someone holding back the House's work simply don't correspond to reality when you look at these statistics. You guys are always figuring out that little has been done today, and there's not much tomorrow, and there's more we could do. But the 167 laws passed in the Collection for two years really don't seem to me at all. I think it is not obstruction, but the standard work of the opposition, when it votes with the government in about two thirds and votes against the government in about one third. In the same way, I could argue with obstructions regarding parliamentary bills, especially opposition ones. You know as well as I do that some of the bills were filed in 2014, that is, year before last, and they haven't gotten to the first reading yet. How is that possible? Why are you doing such obstructions? 15, 14, 13 months. We do not want you to vote in favour, you have your political opinion and you will vote in favour, as Mr Chalupa said. Why did we not vote on the dozens of bills that lie here for a year and a half about any rejection at first reading or release for further reading? Because it's the political attitude of a government majority that I respect. So, in return, respect the opposition's political position, which in other bills says that it is against and that it will be used - as you use the rights of the Rules of Procedure and do not negotiate the bills, so we will do the same. So you're either gonna be strict with everyone or tolerant of everyone. But it can't be that if it's a government proposal, of course we're going fast, fast, but if it's opposition, we won't even discuss it. That's how it is. I do not complain that you understand, it is not a complaint, it is a statement of facts, and each of you, when you look at our website, finds House prints, gives "not yet completed," finds that, for example, the bill to transfer competence from the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Finance in the management of some state enterprises, we started at first reading more than a year ago, we started it, we interrupted it, and we have not continued since then, because you will never put it on the agenda, and then the last day of the meeting you vote with us, I have to say this, about the elimination of all unnegotiated points. And it's just a bill that has some sort of ratio that even the Social Democrats might like, on the other hand, it's strongly opposed to the finance minister, like probably any finance minister that the House would like to take away some competence and give it to another member of the government, so you don't want to reject it, because it might come in handy once in an intra-police fight, on the other hand, you're not even discussing it to create a coalition conflict. And I understand that. It's natural, normal. But then don't complain when we're on one single bill, and we're here on Friday, December 11th, December 18th and January 8th, and compare it with the time when the bills lie here for 18, 16, 14 months, and you don't mind. I understand. They're not yours. But then don't ask us to do it all according to your notes. Such a "general election has decided, and you are delaying us, and the opposition is supposed to allow the government to rule" Then why are we here? We would almost accept such a motive for nothing, but of course we do not want to accept that. So I just want to say one more thing. Since the end of December, you have been releasing such information that when the right time comes when you think that there has been enough debate, you will end the debate, you will break the Rules of Procedure, you will vote this bill, you will certainly applaud it and you will be satisfied as you have reached the opposition. But I say that conscious and planned violations are not good news of political culture in the Chamber of Deputies. How would you view other citizens who would long-term, consciously and organizedly prepare to violate another bill? I don't think you'd vote for any good words and words of admiration and applause. [[11.30 hours]] Now we can get to the EET. Mr Faltýnek calls for a factual expert debate. And I'm in. And today I will try to have specific comments and specific questions, and I look forward to answers. According to government propaganda, I can't call it anything else, the EET project has three objectives: reducing the grey economy, settling the business environment and increasing tax collection without raising rates or extending tax bases. For myself and for my political party, I want to say that these are good goals. And if anyone from government or government ministers today said that this is supported by essentially relevant political parties, he's right. These targets are good and we support them. Unlike you, we believe that the chosen tool - electronic sales log - is absolutely wrong and will not lead to any of these goals. I'll explain in detail. I consider this only as a marketing project of the ANO movement, which seeks to catch up on the fact that so far this Sobotkův government is primarily implementing the left-wing social democracy programme. When you look at the proposals that we have approved and then remember the comments of many of the important actors of the ANO movement, the comments are very often: this was a coalition compromise, we do not like it at all, but we voted in favour of maintaining coalition unity. Again, I mean, I understand. I was also a government MP who was a member of the coalition, and I sometimes found it very difficult to vote for an agreed coalition compromise. So I don't want to ironize it or downplay it. It is, of course, something completely different, if any political party had a monochrome government, a majority in the Chamber of Deputies, then it would be fully responsible for all the government's actions and all the administrative ideas and all the laws adopted. But this is not possible in the Czech Republic thanks to the electoral system, so coalition governments have been created and formed and thus coalition compromises arise and I do not consider it a dirty word. I just want to say that if someone is blaming us for something and maybe even rightly for what we did in the past or the previous parliamentary term, I want to remind you that they were coalition governments, too. Even then, coalition compromises were made, and not all the steps that our governments or the governments we participated in were fully in line with our political agenda. But it is interesting that, for example, some of the steps that we have proposed and pushed forward for the years 2013 to 2015, which, in particular, criticises the ANO movement very harshly, has extended the validity of these steps for years to come with a conscious vote. When we talk about an unfortunate measure, such as a solidarity premium, she shouldn't have paid for eight days. It's been approved for three years. And I'm talking about this tough coalition compromise where it was hard for me to press the yes button personally and raise my hand. But you consciously extended it. We also proposed to return to lower VAT rates, so you're criticizing us here. Today, Mr. Finance Minister... And when we proposed it, you repeatedly voted against it. And when the bill has been here since July of last year, we haven't even let it go to first reading yet. So the criticism could be. At the same time, we offer you the opportunity to remove or amend certain measures with us, reduce taxes, but you are against them yourself. So you can't say at the same time, or you can, but it doesn't make sense that you're criticizing, for example, the introduction of a solidarity premium, and if we want to cancel it, you're against it, and if it's effective, you're willing to extend it by your vote. Then you sign up for it as those of us who voted for it with a heavy heart. There are often paradoxes in politics, and I want to point out one of them today, which is really special. I think that it would be best for us, for our political success and for us to gain greater public support, to allow the approval of the e-booking of sales law to fully demonstrate shortcomings, weaknesses, risks to this project. And we could benefit from it and say, "See, we were right. And yet we're defending it. Many of you, even if you don't say it on the microphone, who so strongly publicly support the introduction of the EET, are equally concerned that the project might not work. That's the paradox. You say that you are in favour, on the other hand many of you are in favour, that the opposition is blocking it, and therefore the law is not effective. Let's remember when it was meant to be. In my opinion, this should have been the case from 1 January 2015. 2016. [[Voices from the diaper: 16.]] I'm sorry. We're only eight days in the new year, so I'm still confused about those years. And for the first time, we discussed the third reading on December 11th. That means, even if we didn't perform a minute, even if we didn't perform and vote on December 11th, you couldn't make it to January 1st of this year. That's not much to talk about anymore. Everything goes against the opposition. The question is, why are you doing this? Why don't you take advantage of the potential benefit of believing that the law is wrong, that it will cause complications for small businessmen or businessmen? I mean, it could bring you some support in the election. There's going to be an election this year. There'll be an election next year. And that's how it's gonna be for another ten years, except in 2016, that there's gonna be an election. The reason is simple. We might even have done that if we hadn't put hundreds of thousands of small businessmen and businessmen into the role of guinea pigs. We do not want to subscribe to the view that the worse the state, the better for the opposition. Even if it's more comfortable for us and more risky for you. Minister Babiš said quite a lot in his speeches on this bill. I was intrigued, and today I want to comment, only three statements. First of all, that's what he said last time, it's a revolutionary project. As a conservative politician, I say that I fear and fear revolutionary projects. Today, the Minister said that it was basically easy, that we shouldn't be scared, that the machine would talk to the machine. I don't want to live in a state where our lives are controlled by machines. I really don't want that. A depersonalized society where everything is controlled by machines and we're just parts and we're doing programmed tasks. And then the Minister said his target was low taxes. And that's where we agree. So I call on him to release our proposals to reduce or abolish taxes and to vote in favour. Then it turns out that it was not just a declaration and that it was indeed a political position supported by a vote in the Chamber of Deputies. And it is possible that left-wing Members will not allow this law to be passed. But when someone says let's vote on it, let's vote on tax reductions. It shows who really supports it by being ready to vote yes, and who says it just like that because they think it sounds good, but they don't really support it. I'm going to divide my performance to EET into five parts so it has some structure. The first part will concern the legislative preparation of the law and, in particular, the IT solution proposed or considered. The second part of the speech will try to disprove the myth that this law is fighting the grey economy. The third part of my performance will try to disprove the myth that the EET will contribute to the settlement of the business environment. The fourth part of my speech will try to disprove the myth that the EET will lead to higher tax revenues for the state and public budgets. In the last, fifth part I will have questions and reservations about the individual paragraphs and the specific wording of the law. If I go back to the first one, that means the entire legislative road to the chosen solution, so I want to remind us all of Government Resolution No. 889 of 2 November last year, which, among other things, provides for the obligation to submit all IT projects worth more than CZK 6 million, respectively. services for a period of five years in total over 30 million crowns to be assessed by the main architect of eGovernment of the Ministry of Interior, who will issue an opinion within 30 or 60 days within the meaning of the annex to this Government resolution. This applies to all ministries, central government bodies and its components. According to all the documents and also from the speech of the Minister of Finance, as well as from today's words, the IT project will cost more than CZK 6 million. My first specific question to the factual expert debate is: Does the Government resolution 889 of November 2015 apply to the EET project? If not, then why. If so, I want to ask if the project was submitted to the chief architect of eGovernment at the Ministry of the Interior. Whether this main architect fulfilled his obligation and issued an opinion up to 30 respectively. 60 days. [[11.40 hours]] The proposal for an EET solution has been accompanied since its beginning by a number of problems that are overlooked by the Ministry of Finance. I don't know whether intentionally or unintentionally. Some of them are unsolved. I'd divide these problems into several parts. The first part is the non-standard legislative process of bypassing the external comment procedure for the part of the proposed law. As we know from practice, and both the coalition and the opposition know, this may be one of the reasons for attacking the passed law at the Constitutional Court, when a number of legislation has already been abolished in the past due to failure to comply with legislative rules, not because of its own content. Because the version of the law that the Treasury finally submitted to the government did not correspond to the version of the law that was sent to the external commentary procedure. I think Vice-President Petr Gazdík has discussed the issue in detail, so I will not repeat his speech and I will not say any of the non-standard measures, non-standard steps and exceptions and circumventions that have so far happened in the legislative path of this law. The second point I would like to draw attention to is the issue of accounting records and their transfer of accounting units, where the proposed solution does not count at all with the amendment to the Accounting Act, which would possibly be required to identify accounting records for transmission in a technical form recognised by an electronic signature from the law, as it is there today, or, while maintaining the current legal regulation of the Accounting Act, would have to indicate an entry recognised by signature for EET for those entities concerned which are accounting units and keep accounts. The third issue is the characteristics of the tax document in respect of value added tax payers, which in the press is called. thermal printers - this is the cheapest solution that is very often presented, that it costs a few crowns, and who doesn't have a few crowns to buy a thermoprinter, better not do business. So if you use these thermal printers, very often you do not secure the two legally required properties of the tax document, namely its legibility and integrity of its content. If you've ever seen a tax record two, three, four years old, which is printed by a thermal printer, you know exactly what I'm talking about. It's unreadable, the press is losing it, and basically it's a paper you don't know anything about. Another is the issue of the method of using the certificate according to the draft EET Act, where the petitioner calculates using the electronic mark for marking the transmitted receipts and then for the initial identification of entities at the central receiving point only according to the relevant electronic mark. The next thing I want to talk about, which so far causes problems in the legislative path, is the issue of project secrecy, project security, or the architecture of the chosen solution. Because according to the proposed law and according to the data obtained from the petitioner, within the technical implementation of the projects will be a number of absolutely critical places throughout the project, which have not been consulted with the professional public, even with the competent authorities. For example, according to Law No. 365/2000 Coll. should properly submit a technical solution to the Ministry of the Interior of the Czech Republic for approval. So my second specific question: Was the technical solution submitted under the law of the Ministry of Interior for approval? Yes or no? If so, when and with what result? If not, why hasn't happened so far and why hasn't Law No. 365/2000 Coll.? In my opinion, it hasn't happened yet, because I don't have the information that this would happen, the real reason why so-called. conceals the forthcoming solution. It is an attempt to hide the wrong architectural or technological solution of the project, not a concern about data abuse, as is often presented. Moreover, if the data are not anonymous and this is not to be according to the proposed solution, then the possibility of their misuse at the central processing site is much higher than in the case of anonymous data. I'm sure we can agree on that. Then I would like to mention the issue of the timeline of the project, not on the basis of obstructions, although we do not consider it obstruction, but I would like to show helpfulness and approach your rhetoric, well, since 11 December, that means less than one month, obstructions are underway in the Chamber of Deputies. But with that, and I've already said it once before, as the petitioner constantly pushed the deadlines of realization in itself. The original date of April 1st 2016 was definitely invented by someone who never filed a tax return. I think that in March all entities are much more concerned about completing, checking tax returns, accounting statements, and not introducing a new revolutionary project - according to Minister Babiš. Whatever we're talking about, I'm gonna skip over a little bit to how I want to disprove the myth of settling the business environment. How is it possible, when you talk about settling the business environment, that you have selected several groups where you yourself have already infallibly proposed effectiveness after the next parliamentary elections? This is where you clearly declare your concern about how this project will work. Therefore, the rapporteur, if I am not mistaken, has read an amendment that has coalition support, which says that hundreds of thousands of craftsmen in particular will be involved 25 months after it comes out in the Collection of Laws, if I have counted correctly, it is at a difficult time, but if the rapporteur will definitely correct me if it is not 25 but 24. This means that you are infallibly heading up to 2018 for at least half of the subjects you claim to be obliged to use the EET. But at the same time, you are boldly talking about equal conditions! So how is that supposed to only apply to someone in seven months, someone in ten and at least half in two years? Where's the equality? I beg you, that is a question for the rapporteur to answer if he considers it appropriate. If he wants to have a substantive debate. What do you see in the equality of the business environment when half of it isn't supposed to be in two years? I mean, I support it! Every distance is good! Make sure it's not misunderstood. I'm not suggesting it applies to everyone right now. We suggest it doesn't apply to anyone. That's a completely different approach! But you, if you have full mouths of words about business equality and equal business conditions, you should justify why some are equal and some are more equal. I know that our President in the pre-Christmas event of the Young Front today exchanged Christmas presents with the Chairman of the YES movement. Mr. Fiala got a mock-up of the children's treasury, but I believe he gave the Minister of Finance two interesting books from the respected prognostic Orwell. One is called Animal Farm, there is quite well described the principle "we are all equal, but some are more equal" And the second equally famous 1984 novel, Big Brother is watching you, when Big Brother is watching you, and this is one of the tools he promotes in Czech legislation. And who among you has read that book has to say that there are amazing things. And I think that if Orwell had followed the legislative proposals of the Czech Government in 2016 and 2015, he would have said: I was holding on to the wall. It didn't even occur to me how much I could think of, how much I could control. And that we have the Ministry of Truth that rewrites the political past based on who was in the coalition and who wasn't. Even if double thinking is applied: I say something in public, something else I think. I think it's an inspirational book. President Fiala told the Minister of Finance that if he read the book well, he would understand why we reject the company, when the machine communicates with the machine, when the machines control our behavior and when the state knows everything. I think that many of you have read it and that you will give it to me for the truth. [[11.50 hours]] Another point I would like to point out is the issue of not discussing solutions at the Council of the Government for Information Society. If the government is already setting up some kind of advice, and I am quite skeptical about it, there is not enough advice; whoever has ever experienced any action knows that the Chamber of Deputies is much more productive than any government council for anything. However, the approved rules say that such large projects should be discussed at the Council of the Information Society Government, when according to my information it was not discussed by the end of last year, there is no opinion of the Council of the Information Systems on the proposed system and the petitioner also does not proceed under Act No. 365/2000 Coll., on public administration information systems, where it has an obligation for public administration information systems - which I think can be said without doubt that EET is an information system of public administration, I hope so, and not for private administration - an obligation to comply with the applicable law. And now I'm going to elaborate on my seven comments a little bit more closely so that you don't charge me with deliberately shortening it, distorting it, cartooning it, etc. I will first return to the issue of a non-standard legislative process and to the issue of certificates to ensure electronic data transmission. As I have already said, the petitioner went around the proper commentary procedure from the beginning, when he originally submitted a draft law into the external commentary procedure and the corresponding explanatory report and economic implications in such a version, which did not even contain the certificate solution at all, and after the settlement of the external commentary procedure, the petitioner submitted a proposal to the government on 8 April last year in a different version, which contained new paragraphs relating to the so-called. certificates where - and I would ask those who really want a factual and professional debate to pay attention now - the petitioner assumes the use of the so-called. electronic marks which, however, are subject to Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 910/2014, on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC, so-called eIDAS Regulation, after the application of this Directive as at 1. 7. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The name itself says enough about how clearly and clearly the European Commission is progressing -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u25	I apologize, Mr President, but I have to suspend the House's Rules of Procedure for the absence of anyone from the government, so I am interrupting the House's negotiations until at least one member of the government is present.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, we can continue to discuss this point. There are two government ministers here, in which case we will continue the debate. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u27	Thank you for the floor. All I'm saying is, I didn't demand a break in the negotiations for the tape screen. And I think that the Finance Minister's colleagues could be more collegiate and fulfill that obligation when there's only one here today so that the Minister doesn't have to sit for five hours - no, he's been talking for an hour, so he's been standing for, like, four hours so he doesn't have to sit. I said, I didn't ask for the interruption of my performance and this meeting. I'll do it again. I'm not reading the Brussels title of the directive. I say, in itself, it's so unclear and unclear that we're not surprised that there's a problem with implementation. If I simplify this, the proposers of this proposal propose to ensure electronic communication of the electronic mark, which will be prohibited under the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council from 1 July this year. And my question is logically why, and how the petitioners - and this is the third specific question that I am asking in the debate - will deal with this when this proposed solution runs counter to European legislation. I think it's a pretty absurd contradiction, but this government says it's pro-European and wants to be at the core. And then the European Commission and the European Parliament produce things as a regulation of the European Parliament on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions in the internal market, but unfortunately we have to follow it and the petitioners either have not noticed or forgotten it or ignored it. And that's a really professional and factual thing. [[There's noise in the room.]] So these electronic marks will be abolished in the Czech legal order after the repeal of the directive on 1 July this year. A technical solution is built on this. The issue of certificates will also significantly affect some technical aspects of the solution... I think it was a break, so I'd like you to give me some peace of mind, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u28	Okay, Mr. Chairman. I think there's enough peace in the room. [[Messenger. Stanjura: That's because you don't talk!]] But still, I'm going to ask those of you who have a need to discuss something to go to the lobby. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u29	Really, these things aren't easy, they're material and professional. And now I want to touch on this claim that no one has to take anything, that everyone already has the equipment and that no expense will arise for entrepreneurs and businessmen. But it's not true. Thanks to electronic brands, it will not be possible to use the older hardware resources available to many entities affected by the EET bill. This means that these business entities will be forced to replace older technical means with new ones. This means that it will bear higher costs on the part of the entities concerned. The situation around the commentary procedure can be easily traced in eKLEP, where the opposition also has access, so who wants, can read all the comments made by the various departments, including this professional character, and can also read how they were taken or not taken into account by the Ministry of Finance as the petitioner of this bill. It's not classified or surprising information. When you compare the wording that originally went into the external commentary procedure with the wording of the bill that went to the government, as I said, on April 8th, it differs especially in the sections that are currently related to certificates. Another problem was the unconstitutional definition of the entities concerned, which has not been resolved until now despite the opposition of the Legislative Council of the Government, which was discussed by Petr Gazdík during the last discussion of this proposal, and despite the opposition of a number of departments. This definition must be stated directly in the law and cannot be dealt with by decree or by regulation of the Government of the Czech Republic. What could be the impact if the solution, as proposed, was actually adopted? By choosing the path to use the signing of data messages transmitted and collected between the cash register system and the central trailer system, so - I repeat - it is not possible, it is not possible to use older cashier systems because their hardware will not be able to work with certificates. It will grow substantially in the size of data messages, that is, the entrepreneur will transfer significantly more data than is technically necessary and thus will increase the cost of Internet connection, or sooner will be exhausted so-called. FUP limit and slow down data transmissions. And there is a risk of misuse of the certificate, because its private part will have to be decrypted at the cashier's facility. The above risks and deficiencies were not justified in any way either in the RIA or in the explanatory memorandum. It's all bogged down and ironized. As a result, a significantly larger number of subjects than the government is presenting so far will be forced to buy new hardware. [[12.00 hours]] Another impact is the solution when receiving the central revenue point when checking only the existence of certificates, such as authentication of the originator, without linking to application logic. It can assign the number of the receipt to so-called. fake receipts. Just copy the certificate from the device, and it can be done by service, service. And you know what it's like when you have an employee. I was here at first reading pointing to the phenomenon of the cuckoo that is in Croatia. As part of a competitive fight, he sends employees to avoid fulfilling their obligations and thus damage them. Then a very often pre-selected person is not given a receipt, and at that point one calls the Financial Authority for control and is already a business entity in trouble. This means that both the operator will have access to it and the service will have access to it. I'm sure we can agree that every such device needs service. We can lead the argument once a year, once a month. That's what practice's gonna show. However, the service will just have it. These people will have access to this part of the certificate. This means that a receipt will be possible, which will subsequently be designated invalid, with the number of the receipt allocated by the financial administration. [[unintelligible]] Another impact, of course, will be the need to renew certificates regularly, which in any case will cause complications for the operators concerned. I don't know which one of you has a lot of experience working with certificates, own electronic signature, electronic signature, installation of a certificate, for example, some internet connection with the bank, renewal of certificates, etc. It's really nothing trivial. Very often, especially those small and businessmen need professional service. Some Members may be better able to do this, but believe me, do not always judge computer literacy and the ability to control application software, certificates by yourself, and look especially at small establishments where they do not have professional devices. Of course, with big companies, there won't be a problem. There are professional apparatuses either in economic, personnel, or IT areas. I'm not talking about them either. That's what we blame the Treasury Secretary for, what he doesn't want to hear - that he's aiming for those little fish. Well, they're heading. And we say - the minister says he's aiming at everyone - that much better would be targeted control than horizontal. That everybody's dirty suspects like that. And very often we hear in the debate: We already know who doesn't actually pay taxes. And now, when we have an EET, we're gonna catch up to them. And I'm asking, since we already know, why don't we just deal with it? And if we don't know that, let's not say that we know that you or they, this sector, another sector, are cheating and not fulfilling their tax obligations. I spoke about the European Parliament's regulation and from 1 July this year it will be necessary for legal persons to use the electronic label...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u30	I'm gonna ask you guys, I've said it before, even though there aren't many of us here, so if you need to deal with something, go to the lobby. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u31	So, from 1 July, the obligation for legal persons in the Czech legal order will be to use the so-called electronic brand instead of electronic brand. electronic seal. And the effectiveness of this law will be after 1. 7. We already know that today. Given what is proposed, there will be an obligation after 1. 7. Electronic tags simply replace. I told you, I've got quite a lot of things ready. I don't want to talk any longer than the finance minister who's been talking for about an hour. So then I'm gonna sign up sometime with my other colleagues with another gig. First of all, I will finish the professional perspective, especially on IT solutions. Perhaps I could ask another specific question, to which I expect an answer in the next debate. It is clear to me that such expert questions from the IT area cannot be answered immediately by the Minister of Finance. That's perfectly understandable. It doesn't matter that we're at third reading. I really do, Mr Vice-President, I don't know if you should consider running the House, holding a seminar and explaining what the third reading is. The only thing that law says I can't put forward amendments. Otherwise, it says that there is a debate at the third reading. The debate is held at third reading. I keep hearing that I can only make legislative technical comments. It's not true. I can design them. And I cannot propose any amendments. That's absolutely true. But there's a debate at the third reading. And we have also promised, and we have also done, that we will not delay first and second readings. I don't think that if you look back, many of us didn't perform at second reading. The second reading took place quite quickly. And if the President of the ANO Faltýnek parliamentary club calls me to a factual, professional debate - I said I welcome it. And that includes specific questions that I expect answers to. At the same time, I understand that the Minister of Finance cannot answer a specific technical question immediately. That would be unfair to ask. On the other hand, we all know that today is not the last day we are discussing this, and I would like to get an answer to those questions next time or the next time, or when you consider it appropriate that we have to deal with those comments and questions. I am really interested - I will sum up the first and third questions - whether or not the Ministry of the Interior will be involved in the technical solution. Minister Chovanec, if I remember him correctly, was not at the hearing once. Maybe part of it. But since this is an information system for public administration, the Ministry of the Interior is in charge of this issue by law, I expect it, and it is a challenge for the Prime Minister to not answer questions as much as the Minister of the Interior, in whose direction this applies next time. There is the main architect of eGovernment. That's where opinions are made. Mr. Home Secretary is creating a new state enterprise. We don't know how successful he's gonna be or not. We are quite skeptical about these plans, and I believe that the government will not approve, but I think that his people too should be involved in the preparation of the EET technical solution. And he can't have the Home Office's face, his civil administration section, and the section that he's in charge of eGovernment, that he's not involved and that everything belongs to finance. So I expect questions about whether they discussed this, when it will be discussed to the Information Systems Council, etc. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u32	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Laudat. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u33	Good noon. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by saying that my colleague, Vice-President of the House, Petr Gazdík, spoke here this morning with a factual remark. His speech is interpreted in such a way that perhaps there are some contradictions between our position so far in the matter of continuing arguments against this law. That there may be a different attitude in the TOP 09 and the starosta, which may lead to the fact that not all of us will continue to maintain our position. So I would like to very strongly point out to you, as well as to the media, that this is not the case. That we continue to insist on our position. We will use all constitutional possibilities, all possibilities of the Rules of Procedure, so that this criminal law is not passed. We will use all the means to possibly attack, if you proceed to what you have announced, this law in the administrative and constitutional courts. And please note that with this opinion, all members of the TOP 09 Club are identified, including those who are not members of the TOP 09 Club. So much for an explanation. For the next one, I'd like you to be organized so that the House doesn't break up before 2:00 p.m. Today we have a consensus that we will be finished at 14 o'clock. But then there is the vote, there is the agreement of the MPs that we would vote on the suspension of this meeting by 22 January to 9 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u35	Mr. Ambassador, I'm counting on it to be by 22. As with other political parties, we respect that on Saturday 16 there is an ODS Congress or an ODS meeting. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u36	I'm just pointing out that it's not just the ODS Congress, it's the day before Jan Palach's anniversary, there are other events, the Social Democrats have something and more and more. So that's not the point, I don't want to, but I don't want there to be a problem with the procedure, that there won't be a match on the interruption at 14 o'clock. Now it is on its own issue of electronic sales records. To begin with, since we have last met on this subject before Christmas, allow me to take a brief reflection on what was being said in the media and how the House's activities at this point are interpreted. I feel sad in Czech countries because I met a few small businessmen and entrepreneurs, who are mainly targeted by electronic sales records, and they, even though the Ministry of Finance has made a rather large information campaign, so in the spirit of the Czech nature that doesn't fall on me and what I can postpone for tomorrow, I will do it and I will start caring either when it's too late or when I suddenly have that duty ahead of me. You know, for the last time, with the re-entry of brands, which are placed for safekeeping and so on. Last day, even though citizens have two years and so on. Tax returns, fronts at the main post office at 12:00 or just before the 42nd of that decisive last day, etc. etc. Well, however, from the discussion, and unfortunately the media didn't help at all, the public is convinced of it or virtually. There are such questions, or there are rhetorical questions and question marks in the area, why we are blocking this law, for, as one journalist from Hospodářské noviny said, "it is a common box office." It's not just a checkout. After all, it is naive to think that nowadays someone will simply go on to make a major turn in terms of citizens' freedom, citizens' rights, at one point. But yourself, if you take what laws have been passed, what laws are being discussed here, and what laws the coalition is still considering to discuss, certainly those for whom freedom and democracy are the highest values must at least acknowledge for themselves that here the salami method of democracy and the personal freedom of people, the personal freedom of entrepreneurs, their rights, their right to trade secrets are dangerously breaking, and please, under the baton of the Prime Minister, who is not able to protect his mail freshly. I assume that almost none of us have any special levels of e-mail protection, but we also do not deal with a number of basic sensitive issues, we are not government ministers, we are not on some secret committees, or where classified information is being handled, and we are not, in particular, Prime Minister of this country. So, as I'm supposed to be telling myself, the Prime Minister is just convincing us, and the Finance Minister is also convinced that the data will be safe, they won't be crashable, that there's almost nothing to be analyzed except for issues related to payment, payments. I simply have great doubts about it, and practice proves that their promises are not credible. In addition to why we are speaking to him in this way here and we are trying to take advantage of all the possibilities for him not to be approved, and not to need a check report on how he passed recently and how we were not allowed to discuss it in a proper programme at an emergency meeting on 22 December last year. A number of laws that this coalition has passed, which significantly intensify the freedoms of professional groups or individuals, so if they get to power in the future, and I believe in that, whether it takes six years, two years, the parties that will have in their shield and will actually follow principles and have the highest value of freedom, so that they can, in general, redo these standards very quickly or even cancel them. In case I'm in this process, I'm going to do everything I can to make sure that a number of things that have passed through here stop paying at the very shortest time. But electronic sales log is a bit of a different keg. She will therefore fall in addition to the larger entrepreneurs and large entrepreneurs as well as the smallest entrepreneurs who do business in the countryside, in the outskirts such as large cities, in the not-market best and most suitable locations, and often they are the last institutions that - in the quotes of the institution, I do not mean the public, but institutions that create there even a life, some supply of services, often the last that exists in the country. And if - I do not believe - I do not agree with the Minister of Finance that there will be a loss of the business sector, that it will not simply happen that it will not cost 30,000 or more, but 30,000 for the country's innkeeper may be its profit for a number of months. Indeed, those people, their greatest offense is that they don't go to the employment office and try to take care of themselves. And you know that if there is a high unemployment rate in these regions, which we have more and more in the Republic, where they are dead or dead in terms of business movements, there is structural unemployment, then you will give this sector another crushing blow. If you take it and we return in history, the Czech countryside has not yet coped with the consequences of communist rampage during the collectiveization. And because I have this experience and personal, so in the countryside, in the depopulation of the countryside, if someone cancels the pub, because it doesn't rent it anymore, or because of the very small profit of adding additional obligations, another annoys exactly the last drop that will lead to the pub shutting down, or the establishment of some kind of service, or some kind of craft, you're going to liquidate this business microstructure, so even if someone cancels it, your project, so that the entrepreneur or the pub doesn't come back after a few years to reopen the pub. The odds are very low. What's going to happen is that somewhere those services can disappear completely, or they get into pricing sessions such that it will somehow increase the costs of those service providers, that they will get into trouble again the poorest, that they will not reach those services anymore, they will draw more money out of their pockets. And, of course, when the services are not necessary, they will not use them. [[12.20 hours]] In any country that has been mentioned here, and especially Croatia, this has certainly not contributed to the promotion of business and has certainly not contributed to prosperity, it has not contributed to higher tax collection. The protagonists themselves in these countries say that this is not the case and that what the Vice Prime Minister and Finance Minister are telling us is not true. Therefore, for these questions, and often stupid, and I have to say really stupid performances by so-called political commentators, I want to say why we are defending this incredibly. Because there can be irreversible damage here. With a number of other laws, even if it's painful, it's gonna ruin a lot of people's lives, it's gonna ruin their lives, it's gonna change their careers, so I still think it's reversible. And I would really like you to think in this category. The law itself. I started here last time discussing the final report on the impact assessment of RIA regulation, whose processor is the apparatus, officials of the Ministry of Finance. I said I wouldn't have to continue discussing the discussion further, their arguments, their figures, their claims if they provided some service, that they would contact me, and we would discuss the whole analysis. Of course, as expected in the state in which the Ministry of Finance is located, no one even bothered to call and offer this. However, today, because I do not know how long you will allow us to speak on this issue and not interrupt the debate violently, you will not relieve us of the constitutional right to draw attention to the errors, the shortcomings of this law, so I will interrupt my speech or I will not continue it to regulate RIA and I will take some things and I hope, because there are not all ministers here, and I would like them to respond specifically during the next follow-up, and not in all cases I want the Minister of Finance to answer that, but, for example, the Minister who is in charge of legislation, which is Minister Dienstbier, so here I will raise these questions and I hope that I will get an answer to them during any further discussion. And the best thing to do is to cut back on the time during the next performances, that a written answer will be processed, which you will get on the table. So what's first, I would just like Minister Dienstbier to respond to this as the highest guarantor of the Government Legislative Council. I was warned by some lawyers that - and it was some reaction to some weekend performance by Prime Minister Sobotka, who said: We stopped preparing electronic sales records, there is no law. The Ministry of Finance started some preparations, then it was declared by the opposition that the law was broken, that the ministries and state institutions, as well as other levels of public life, could do what they had the authority to do, what they had to do in the law. The Act on Electronic Recording of Sales has not yet supported the Act, so those steps have been stopped. However, if I take this statement consistently from the Prime Minister - we have stopped preparations. This means that some preparations - something that was not before can not be stopped, which means that the Prime Minister inadvertently admitted that there has been a violation of the law. Now it's just a question of whether any payments were made for it, whether it was worth any money. And I think this matter should be investigated by the Supreme Audit Office. I would just point out here that in the past there was a case in which Minister Vladimír mlynář, at his time, I hope I remember the name well, so he took a similar step, but no House, no one publicly pointed out that this was a very dangerous and legislatively unconstitutional step. In the first standings, he was even sentenced to years of imprisonment, then to probation, and only after a ruined life for several years, and his career was set free. There was no damage. And here, at least, the Treasury seems to have gone in the spirit of these steps. This means that there may have been a breach of the competence law here, because there was no proper authorisation to carry out a specific type of operation, that is, transfer of money and so on and so forth. Of course, it may be some transitional situation, which the authorities, which sometimes do very quickly, sometimes do not do at all, I don't know, so maybe it will be over. However, I have been warned that as far as authorisation and competences are concerned, it has been legislatively addressed, so that even what is to be approved here at third reading is not okay. So I dare to call on the absent Minister Dienstbier to present to the House a real analysis and a statement that all the matters of competence relating to the law of competence and all the powers necessary for the electronic record of sales to be launched are legislatively sound and do not contradict any other laws, because the authorisation is not supposedly in this law, a mandate, which may also happen to have been spoken of accidentally by Prime Minister Sobotka. So, even if that claim were relevant to some lawyers, the Ministry of Finance and, in particular, its senior officer may also be exposed to the risk of prosecution or lawsuits. So I would ask the absent Minister Dienstbier to make a clear statement on this. Today, former Deputy Minister Mrs. Hornochová has already said that, in order to organise the project, the Ministry has said that it is sufficient for them to pre-select those who will participate in it, in some way to make a technical system, a competition between suppliers, and so on. That's literally how it sounded somewhere. So I'm just saying, the competency guy isn't here, and he hasn't been solved. [[12.30 hours]] As far as logic is concerned, I have no doubt that the Minister of Ťok Daniel not want to harm this state either. On the contrary, it wants to in some way move the electronic toll so that it can be selected at all from 1 January 2017. And you know that he's put the issue in a completely catastrophic crisis situation, which is definitely not going to be so easy to back out of today. There's no way out of this, or we're gonna be losing hundreds of millions every month. That means, often good intentions are paved the way to hell. In my opinion, and again, I have met many times at the level of municipalities, cities with that someone tried at all costs, and it often had a head and heel, I do not deny it, push something through, and always, or often it was said that the community could not do this, that one cannot do this because the municipality, or in this case today the state can only do what is allowed to him. Allowed by positive reading. And there are only two places in this EET Act that state authorisation, and there is therefore the view that this authorisation should also be carried out vertically, that is to say, after the individual degrees of leadership and subjection in the direction not only of the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic, but also on certain points of independent administration of the administration of the agenda, control and administrative procedures for Financial Administration and Customs. That means we're heading towards them. There's no such thing in the law. The exercise of powers is governed by Section 2. The Ministry of Finance is in the form of an authorisation or a positive statement determining the direct relationship or obligation to be fully mentioned in a single place, § 19 para. 3, method of creating the signature code. Here, this thing is adjusted exactly in terms of what I'm saying here, but not in these other situations. Given that it has been taken from the beginning that there will be no too long discussion at first and second reading, that the discussion will focus on third reading, of course it has not been too much time for even philosophy to be thoroughly dissected, or that if the Ministry of Finance or Sobotkův's government already wants to implement any of the instruments, so whether it is good to do it by a separate law, or to use existing legislation and to change the tax code, because in a way what the Minister of Finance says will lead to some goal, which, according to his claim, is a higher tax collection, a reduction in the grey economy, I think that in this case the law could be understood as a refinement of the tax system. I say, that's my opinion, I don't impose it, but there was no such discussion, vacations, vacations first, hectic stuffing through the second reading as quickly as possible. So that's why I'm coming back here, because I don't think there's gonna be another chance. Of course, then it wouldn't be so medially interesting, but the fact that it complicates the already complicated tax system in the Czech Republic is simply obvious. In Section 33, the relationship to the tax rules, unless otherwise provided for in this law, only administrative offences are exemplaryly different. This means that in practice, and I return to the very beginning again, whether entrepreneurs who remain silent and who touch it are aware of the risk of this paragraph or this part. Save as otherwise provided in this law, it will only be administrative offences. They're also exemplaryly different. Well, what can that mean in practice? You yourself know, and I fear with the advancing virtual world, the information age, the increasingly disheartened employees, the disheartened managers will avenge their owners or their successors. And it's already happening, it's happening a lot in IT, it's happening even when you submit offers for public contracts, that someone, i.e. a processor, suddenly appears as an employee of another company, and of course it just suddenly gives the offer more advantageous. It is also happening, or it has been reported to be happening in the past according to publicly available sources. And here you can actually... Here, the company can get into a frantic situation if someone in the area of the EET takes non-standard steps, which will be contrary to this law. It's gonna run all over another line. Thus, the Section 33 can potentially be abused. The big deficiency, and often it is quite a frantic error, is that there is no interpretation of the terms used in the law, and then a number of those entities that apply the law or which are burdened with the effects of the law as to how they should explain the matter. And if in any future performance, the Minister of Finance will correct me, if I'm wrong, there's one problem, and I don't think it's an isolated problem. But that really should be judged by some team of lawyers, I suppose the Legislative Council of the Government will. There's a term used... [[Shut up for the noise in the hall.]] It uses the term fiscal identification code. For the first time, it is written about in § 20. a), which is somewhere about very far away, maybe it will be some half of the law, and there it is said that they also relate to mandatory data on the receipt. But actually, there's no explanation of what a fiscal identification code is before. It is therefore not defined by what it contains, who issues it, on what basis. [[12.40 hours]] It seems, I know, if I'm not mistaken, that Minister Babiš was performing at press conferences, and I'm not available, and I don't screen his performances, or anyone's making them to me, but I feel like he always said in explaining that everyone gets assigned a code and then sends it to the report, and that's it. But explaining at press conferences or conferences or here in the House is one thing and for society, for subjects is given only what is written. So please, if I'm wrong, you can tell me I'm missing an interpretation of the term fiscal identification code. Otherwise, we already know about the relatively well-known cases where the House, the Senate and the President simply signed, went through some bill, were not precisely specified interpretation terms or were unclear, which gives enormous potential for questioning the interpretation of the law or that part of it, the litigation then burdened, and in this case would obviously burden the financial authorities or the General Financial Directorate. If it were possible and it was not corrected by legislative means, we would have gotten, the state would have gotten into a situation that normally, if there was a sustained pace of dispute resolution, there might be a problem somewhere, even in the order of years, in some similar cases it was five to seven years. So if there's nothing else, then maybe somebody should go through that law step by step, even though it's already here at third reading, and these shortcomings, if I'm not mistaken, should be corrected. The Minister also mentioned it here today and tried to disprove it, but the issue of electronic sales records is publicly perceived that it concerns pubs and retail. In the period of this government - and in a few days it will be exactly half of their mandate, two years after they took over the country's administration - quite strange things are happening. Previously, very strong and uncompromising trade organisations, the chambers of commerce held their members. This is not the case now, at least some examples literally hit the eye. I've been alerted to the fact that... I know I didn't have enough to swallow on the budget committee over the appearance of a representative of the Association of Hotels and Restaurants, if I'm saying this right, however, in connection with the fact that those who promote electronic sales records used it, now I don't know which one it was, such an example to prove that we're the ones who protect the thieves. In some pub or restaurant facility it is divided so that grandma has breakfast, father lunch, mom does dinners, daughter does accounting and son has a separate business to run in front of the garden. Well. And here they're trying to suggest to the public that there are tax evasions on VAT, because they're getting below that limit, and that's why they're not VAT payers, and no one really knows how much they're gonna make and they're unchecked. Apparently, there's a dog buried here that apparently they thought in Croatia when they were implementing, they called it some sort of fiscalization project, or, as they labeled it, they didn't tell electronic sales records that they were gonna squeeze these little businessmen, and they're gonna take the money out of them. If it didn't happen then that's why the Czech system didn't show up, not to mention that it's a fatal attack on a family company, so of course these people are acting according to the law. However, the fact that they divide their sales and do not pay VAT on output is equal to their added value, does not mean that it is a fraud because they buy inputs with value added tax. They buy electricity, water, connections, internet, petrol, food and other things, i.e. I'm sure they're paying VAT. They don't take it as VAT payers, but they buy it at prices where the VAT is. And if they pay, then everything is legal and proper, then VAT is paid by their suppliers. So where's the VAT loss? The suppliers, as far as I know, will now be intercepted by a check report. Of course, either the Minister or the proponent of electronic sales records can oppose this, that they can therefore buy or seek those products in the grey zone. Personally, I think who knows the innkeepers, etc., so the probability that some major part of these commodities will be bought in the grey zone is very small and it would certainly not be worth going with cannon on or not sparrows, because sparrows are too big in this case, perhaps for some ants. So the claim that the introduction of an EET that comes into business in family companies, it's just... I don't know if the screams - if it wasn't up to me... weren't - the forms that 15-year-olds use belong to the Chamber of Deputies, but it wasn't even here, but still someone should be restrained. Thank you. So I don't believe there's just any major tax evasion. It defies the logic of thinking. And it's a segment of those companies or businesses that can make our country poor, and then Minister Jurečka and KDU-ČSL can write a thousand-fold rural recovery projects and so on, it will be too late and you won't revive it even billions after that. On the contrary, you can accelerate the depopulation and loss of rural attraction, which can have very fatal consequences for our country in the future. Of course, a lot of these entrepreneurs are buying, I'm not going to be here to introduce these large-scale product suppliers for these small-scale businessmen, and of course when you ask about how small-scale businessmen, and in most cases you can go to that wholesaler, he's obliged to cooperate, provide synergies, otherwise he's under punishment, so why would he simply risk huge problems, even prosecution, because of the often sold mayonnaise or mustard? That is, if the tax office wants to check on this family business, there is no problem. I'm warning you. [[12.50 hours]] Mr. Finance Minister here today, so excuse the pace of my performance, because I want to respond to most of the things he said today, so ad hoc, not what I had prepared, what I could probably tell you here without a problem for two hours. In particular, this law aims at cash payments. However, see the cash payment law, cheque payments, electronic payments, payment of notes, payment of meal vouchers, payment of gift vouchers and employee benefits in professional form, also credits, bonds, advances, their cancellations and contractual fines, periodic penalty payments and so on. All of this is considered by law a decisive income. Here it goes even significantly further than the Minister of Loved Croatia, because it is said that this detail does not have their law there. So that's where they only go after cash sales. Everyone gets a receipt, now I don't know what it's called, the minister said it here in Croatian, "duck," I don't know. However, with the assumption that there are already assumptions that a legitimate discussion could begin slowly about how long cash will still be paid, and this will not only be paid electronically. Of course, it will still take some years, but I do not know the last numbers, but gradually the number of cash operations decreases in a natural way, because it is very dangerous to carry cash with you, to take care of it. There are already legal limits on restrictions, even if they are still large amounts. However, I believe that even if the state does not have social pressure on citizens in this, with the process of changing generations in full strength, most of society will be made up of generations that are already going through the age of computers and information age, so that cash payments will continue to decline more and more. Just because it will be connected with others, and it is already happening, comfort, so even from the perspective of the future, probably not too far away, my estimate is some ten years, cash payments will further retreat into marginalization, as regards the above and the extent. All the more will be shown how unnecessary and unnecessary this project was. Another thing that is, and which may be, if any, if anyone were to attack this law, whether in an administrative court or rather in the Constitutional Court, with which I have a big problem, is the question of setting exceptions for sales. With the fact that many people who have not worked in the public sector in their lives, whether at the level of municipalities, cities or regions, regions of the state, believe that it is the best, and often it has the head and heel, when we are not able to figure out all the shades of life and all the possible cases, we will give the government competence, and she will be our product, which we approve, or rather semi-product, legislative scumbags - often journalists have marked it in times past - so we will give power to the government, and she will adjust it by decrees and other illegal standards. This means that here in Section 12, as is the revenue under the simplified regime, the government provides in Sections 10 and 12 para. 3 such a solution, which essentially receives an instrument, how to fundamentally tune, is therefore in quotation marks, the legislative bastard coming out of here, and the effects of this law, because the effects are clearly not all premeditated. Even the creators of this law are aware of this. This means that a very crucial decision, which will then even liquidate certain groups of entrepreneurs, will be made by the government by its resolutions or by its powers. And Parliament will watch it, and people will send and curse parliament. Another thing that grows like mushrooms in the rain. Together with my colleague Kolovratník and others, we are trying. You know how Prachařův's amendment about the purchase of land, or the Act on Accelerating the Construction of Transport Infrastructure, where it was not entrusted to the government, but even to the Minister of Transport and representatives of the investor at lower levels. It ended with a fiasco, so next week in the Senate maybe next week we will discuss our proposal, which we are here in a state of utter despair from the state in which we found ourselves after Prachařův's novel buy-out of land for key transport constructions, approved by one turn on my personal intercession and pressure to take it as the priority of this House, otherwise it would be here today and it would not be discussed and coalition politicians would continue to go to various media to explain how we are blocking the House. This is going to be quite the same case. You guys were just in the past election campaigns, and after the beginning, you promised you weren't politicians. I've also heard from you that legislation is evil, inconspicuous. And what you're doing here, you're making legislation undefined, unpredictable, evil, so no one's gonna be sure of a minute before your legislative spree even when he's asleep. Another thing, and I've already put it here, is data protection and privacy. Analogy, and it has also happened that, so far, thank God it has not happened that someone has hacked into the system of financial offices, the General Financial Directorate. Thank God for that, however, the law, if it is approved and if such new projects are invented, we should not risk and temptation to raise it, but at least not increase it. It should stay standard. There's a first time for everything. First we see in this country... [[The MP's gone silent.]] Vice-President of the House, thank you very much for having been a very fair and decent approach since this morning, even some Members have maintained that they did not make a scene, such as, for example, a colleague of Komárek and others, I would ask very much that we bear in our ability to act solidly. Here's the screams.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u37	Ambassador, I didn't interrupt you, you may proceed, the noise level is slightly below normal, more than the normal meeting of the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u38	I wasn't asking for silence, I was reacting here to the screams. One starts out, even if he's not rude, and it ends up you know how.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u39	Mr. Ambassador, you have raised only four factual points, from three of your colleagues and one of your KDU-ČSL colleagues, that is all. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u40	There's never enough decency. [[Slight cheer in the hall.]] So as far as this is concerned, I would like to know, because there have been recent reports that, as is technically not yet being prepared, a project may be being prepared to use protection that is easily contested and easily decoded. [[13.00 hours]] I don't think there's a system in the world today that's safe enough not to be countervailable. Plus, these data will send you hundreds of thousands of subjects, if they don't like it, this Balkan news, and they'll stay on business, they obviously won't have their systems protected. That means the desire to look at the data with this will greatly increase. Until now, discussions have been very often conducted on whether the General Financial Directorate or the financial authorities or someone from the state level will have the desire and urge to collect these data selectively on selected people, persons, selected entities and then intervene there, even if they may not have anything on their conscience. I'm more worried, and I've already pointed it out here long before Prime Minister Sobotka's e-mail became public, that I'm worried more and more, and the last case is just confirming me that the more risk the other side will be. Because if someone today has a business plan, whether local or even a network with a range of cities, regions or the whole republic, they have to pay for relatively expensive research and data collection, so it may be cheaper, so it may be cheaper not to deal with it, in terms of time faster, to try to get this data and it may not be by burying the mole at the level of the government, but by going from the outside with trying to hack into the system. However, well, if so, then the laws, and not only this one you approve, you say: Citizen, fulfill! Citizen, pay up! Citizen, send a report, citizen, register in this or that register! And if you don't, there's sanctions. With the law you passed on the inspection report, those sanctions are draconian, liquidation. They even make businessmen slaves, because if they already have a health problem, or sometimes they might want to leave after many years of vacation work, they'll come back and have a huge fine on their hands and often the end of the company. And, well, I believe, if you want to push this through at all costs, then in that case, not only give what threatens the citizens, but what threatens the state and the particular culprits when it comes to failing and breaking and using these data and it becomes a bad behaviour of the state administration. That means why didn't you put it there to be a 50-50, a straight classification of the crime of abuse and leaking information? This should, by the way, be regulated in all possible laws relating, for example, to wiretaps and the like. Of course, I know that there was a debate or a debate on the Committee on Budgets. The Director General assured that there would be such measures that this could not happen. I prefer to always take the more pessimistic version, and if it can't happen, then why are you afraid to put that paragraph in there? Just as we are being assured by the Financial Directorate today that this cannot happen, we are often assured by the police, even by intelligence, or by the public, and you know the outcome. Why hasn't it been so far? Because the state hasn't been gathering as attractive data as it is now. I'm convinced of that. And it doesn't really have to be about the product. Okay, I take it he's not gonna be there, he's gonna sell a dozen pilsen and so on, but there's a whole bunch of things that are going to be simple numbers analysis, money, you can figure out and formulate. On-line data collection, I would say here, so for example, when I think about it, and if the finance minister sometimes disproves me, then margins can be calculated - this is a very important indicator of the price of the business or business entity. And it doesn't really have to be about how much he sold the person at Bati's grocery store, bread or pair of Bat's shoes or other Bat's shoes. This can also be calculated by sociodemographic indicators or by purchasing power in place. But these things can be counted. And as I was saying, today an interested party who has a business plan and explores the environment has to hire an analyst or a company to do it and pay very dearly. And the more accurate the analysis, the better. Apparently, some political parties may know how expensive polls are, and I would say that business surveys may be even more expensive or the same, comparable. Another thing is that it is presented to the public that a business environment has been cleaned up in Croatia, that it is now clear that only those who pay taxes can do business there, and those who do not pay taxes, so they have finished, or they have closed their business to end the past, it will probably be one of those reasons for some of the disappearance of those business entities, and they have made some of their limited liability companies that start from scratch. So that's where they're going to show some revenue. However, in this very tricky experience of the only country, there is a general theory of how the functionality of the system will look and how taxpayers will behave in the Czech Republic. Croatia is the size of the grey economy of black sheep. Some even say that I have the term from crooks in Brussels, "the streetmen of Europe." And, Czechia, if you look at the data, I would like to get to them today, too, because some analysis of the Supreme Audit Office, the Minister of Finance, has obviously quoted or inspired here, so the Czech Republic is, I would say, somewhere around Wednesday, about tax evasion. And an economist told me he'd see it at two minuses. So it is quite absurd that, consequently, when the Croatian model or argument by Croatia was challenged, Sweden and others fell. So, however, in general, I do not know why we take as a role model a country that is labeled by somebody even in this area as "the streetman of Europe." It means, it's the same as giving the biggest troublemakers at school as role models. [[13.10 hours]] It is always good - I don't know how it is from whom, or if ever, even if at least according to the faith of members of the club ANO Babiš is excellent and has always been the best where he entered, so he never wrote, but I don't know if and how effective it would be for him to copy from fours and fives, not from 1s. And you're the one who wants to release your votes here, that we're gonna copy from the fourth graders. I do not think that we should take a role model and study in Croatia at all as far as political culture is concerned. I think for us these patterns are Germany, Benelux, the United States, Japan and other cultivated countries that already have a long tradition, some vision of another existence, etc. Not Croatia, which has not long gone through the tragic experience of civil war. So I don't know. And when I asked a Chorvat, he's a regular citizen who did it with morality or how it bounced off morals, the functioning of this system, he said to me, "Well, I know a lot of your beautiful Praha, and you know, when I'm here, I drive a tram. And I noticed that a lot of people are probably already trained for non-paying reviewers, which means they're black passengers, and that they already have such grown instincts and they're gonna know the controller for the length of the whole tram. And he says - in our country, when I transfer it from your Prague trams to our experience, in Croatia, the different treatment of their analogy of the EET system begins to spread again. That means people are already divided. Traders or service providers have categories: foreigner - ours, our friend and our snitch and according to this, data falls into their system. So please, once again, I'm stressing this to you, on the contrary, you can achieve the exact opposite of what you're saying and what you're blaming the right-wing opposition for defending some criminals. You know, sometimes even laws can lead to people becoming even more cynical. So please again, and probably this can happen especially in cities where there is great tourism etc., so maybe the public should start learning Croatian experience by now. Payroll or customer-stranger, ours, ours-friend, ours-squealer. You don't find it weird - it's a shame the Minister of Justice isn't here. I do not know whether he is present in Prague or meditating in India, but I would expect that if you promised such a fundamental revolution in everything, he would start working intensively on a concept that will change a situation where a nation that is certainly not better or worse than the Němec than all the peoples of Europe has almost the most people sitting in prisons per thousand inhabitants. And by introducing these systems, the first step - distortion of morality, the second step - criminal. It's not the answer. I mean, there was a totalitarian system here, and you know how it turned out, and how the vast majority of society was raised by such cynics that they said something at home, and the exact opposite they said in public, abused all their lives from morning to night with fear of what would happen. So I would ask, and I repeat again, that at one of the next discussions here Minister Dienstbier, or sent it to us in advance in some form, brings an analysis as to the competence law and other standards that relate to it, that this law is correct up to all levels of application. And from Minister Pelikán, I would like him to tell us what the problem is to bring to the law that liability for misconduct, in the case of the State for misuse of data, of course, if proven, criminal liability of the culprits, including compensation of damages, was somehow guaranteed. So I'm hoping to see it through. And it shouldn't be a problem for them if they live that way with this system and it's your priority. Now I would return to one sentence, which the Minister of Finance said here in my almost an hour's performance in the morning, namely that only you or he says publicly, now I will not quote him precisely - we are only now fighting tax evasion because Kalousek or the previous government, when I say it freely, did not fight it, did not do anything. Well, I would just say here, and even that was somehow mediated, obviously, or one of the possible objectives of how badly taxes were collected in the past period or in the period of right-wing governments, so it was that the SAO carried out a rather interesting analysis of the administration of value added tax in connection with legislative changes that were made in some period. It is a pity that, even if there are corrective measures - it could probably be kept quiet, it is a pity that someone has not done this before and does not do so continuously in a quarter of four years to create a longer time series. The reading is very interesting. It is therefore control action No. 14/17. Of course, something is hard on this to question the previous functioning of the Ministry of Finance or the financial authorities and so on, but I would like to think about the Minister of Finance's statement. He says the government didn't do anything, or the Treasury. I haven't had time because I'm responding ad hoc, getting all the laws that the Minister of Finance has put in place, and he'll be in office in a few days, two years, about tax evasion or VAT evasion. And I'm sure I'm going to get an analysis of how many changes that would lead to are saying what amounts they're missing; one version is 160 billion, the other is 100 billion. That depends on how you look at it, what the interpretations are, what the methodology was used, etc. etc. He's right about that. However, I will certainly have to make a comparison as to whether it was also as legislative as it was during the era of the right-wing government. I'm just pointing out that I'm going to get an analysis of the legal interpretations since the end of the coalition I think was June or late June, early June, I don't exactly remember 2013. Today we have 2016 and at least the strongest part of the coalition government, which is a social democracy, must bear the moral responsibility for Rusnokův's government, which she supported here, although most of the House had a different opinion and ruled without the House's mandate. The Supreme Audit Office has just examined - and for your information only - what happened in a relatively narrow time frame for the legislative changes that were supposed to be aimed at - some of them, some in part, some probably even according to the analysis - in order to avoid tax evasion on value added tax. [[13.20 hours]] Thus, the first of the items examined was the publication of bank accounts that are effective from 1 January 2013 and obliges tax administrators to publish the number of bank accounts used for economic activity and designated payers for publication. Publication of bank accounts. That was the first law. I said, have you done anything else? Or any technical measures to those to whom it belongs that have increased efficiency in this? Did you come up with anything similar? Not yet. Another law that in that period... is a transfer of tax liability. It took effect by commodity between 2006 and 2012. This is a specific scheme which means that for the provision of selected taxable transactions it is obliged to grant tax on the recipient of such transactions. That's exactly what we would support. This means targeting specific things where carousel or other fraudulent business is happening. But you here want to terrorize a decent majority. There is a fundamental difference between us, the right-wing opposition, the TOP 09, and the YES movement, respectively. Mr. Babiš, by all means. Next thing you know. Unreliable payer. The Institute shall be effective from 1 January 2013. A tax entity which has seriously violated the obligations relating to the administration of the tax and whose unreliableness has been decided correctly by the tax administrator will become unreliable. So another attempt to clean up the business environment, virtually. It's just the part that cheats on taxes. Liability of the beneficiary of the taxable transaction. This institute took effect between 2011 and 2013 by type of guarantee and consists in the fact that under the statutory conditions the recipient of the taxable supply is liable for the tax paid by the provider of the performance. I repeat, most don't care. Another law was and took effect continuously from 2011 to 2013 - the liability of the beneficiary of the taxable transaction. Another very powerful tool, which can prevent its intensive use, can prevent the release of value added tax. Another measure was a special method of securing the tax. It is effective from 1 April 2011 and allows the recipient of taxable transactions to pay the tax on the provider of transactions directly to the financial office. So another option in which it is a very advantageous measure for the state. Unfortunately, the obligation or possibility of who is the beneficiary of the taxable transaction has passed. Additional item or other provision of legislation - ensuring payment for unpaid or not yet fixed tax. This mechanism shall be effective from 1 January 2012 and shall allow the tax to be secured by issuing a freezing order, which shall be exercised at the moment of its issue. Another legislative instrument. Correction of the tax on debtors in insolvency proceedings. The measure has been effective since 1 April 2011 and should have brought about a reduction in the collection of value added tax. This institute increased the protection of creditors by allowing them to claim a refund of the tax not paid by the debtor in insolvency proceedings. Its aim was to support business in the framework of anti-crisis measures. There. Here I read to you, including how it is defined, how to become, virtually. through the Ministry of Finance tried and what he said in life. In fact, in 2010, if I'm still generous, until 2013, including the fact that it was effective. This means that the legislative processes were still taking place a little earlier. However, the Ministry of Finance's materials that were aimed at this have always been a priority here in the House and a coalition's priority. There were no priorities such as significant market power, virtually. an instrument invented by the Office for the Protection of Competition or allegedly needs it. And restrictions on selling time. Those are really figurines without which this republic cannot exist. So it isn't true to the claim, or, of course, if the Minister of Finance says that only the selected things relating to VAT in fact at some three years, that quite a lot of important or substantial decisions or attempts to reduce tax evasion in three years, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, is not enough. But I'm saying, I'm just coming out of the SAO's information or what she was researching. I don't know, I'll compare it to what you've done so far in this area. Certainly no one here would block selectively targeted regulation of standards on specific areas and specific perpetrators who simply do this activity or specific methods that are used for tax evasion. But I'm saying again, it's just not the problem that's being set up here. When I read the SAO's report, what's going on in there? That often the standards began to apply very quickly after approval or entry into force. And the financial authorities didn't have the time to get ready for them. And I think about it, or I can sense it missing the relevant data over the last few years, and it would certainly be interesting to have it gradually as the newer data will sometimes be available, to put it in some time series to make it quite clear whether the tool is effective or not. And hand in hand with the use of financial authorities. How it is applied, how it is used, what are the options, how it is simply given in practice. I take it from the SAO's information that the intensity of this exploitation is not good, and if you really want to, they really mean to start a faster and more powerful fight against tax evasion, so always a reasonable person first uses all the tools at his disposal at the limit of his ability, and only when it doesn't help, so comes up with something new. However, when I think about this report, even with a much smaller volume of data of those possibilities, and not that there is no automation in some laws, it means the use of information systems, so I wonder what intensity of use will be even if it occurs that this system will be put into practice. Even if the Minister says that he has accepted or accepted 300 or 400 new employees, which will lead to an increase in the number of possibilities to work with data, he will use them more intensively. However, I believe that the increase in the data will again be so enormous that I simply consider it very unlikely that it will be an effective tool. [[13.30 hours]] If I ever wanted to look for any practical implications - the Minister of Finance, I was thinking about it, here at one of his previous performances he said that, for example, the carousel shops moved from Slovakia to here, that they closed the faucets, the possibilities, so it moved here. If they're closed here, I'm assuming they'll move on or this part will disappear. However, Minister, it is not only that it would be right from a moral point of view, but that it would not increase tax collection but only remove one part of the virtual economy. I may have understood that they didn't just pay the depéháčka for the carousel, but they're still going to withdraw the VAT from the state, which they're not entitled to as a vomit. It will probably be a question at all in the information age in the future, and I am coming to an end, so whether the classic value added tax construction today is sustainable within open economies at an information age, whether it is becoming more and more a real attraction not only to not be paid, but rather to not be tunneled, tunneled by the system or money from the collected taxes of those decent people. This is a big question that is offered for the future. However, the discussion, of course, here I just want to mention that this as a support argument for the fact that I am sure, but one thing is what the Minister will say after the possible introduction of this system, so surely he won't say I didn't choose anything. When the lower money was collected, he said, well, the economy started to cool or we had to pay some old skeletons from the closet, which is why we have smaller withdrawals. I'm afraid that the relevant data, and I don't want to give anybody antlers, can just get to a relatively distant future, according to the citizens' decisions in the next and the next elections. So, ladies and gentlemen, if nothing else, this time, I would like to get, if possible, binding or relevant, and all of you, along with me, answers from both Minister Pelikán and especially Minister Dienstbier to the two things that I have said here. Thank you for your attention for the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u41	I can see that my colleague Gazdík is reporting, but he's unlucky because I have five factual points here. I note that, of course, we have not exhausted one Member who has been duly enrolled in the debate. So far, we've only exhausted priority rights and factual remarks. Then there is the question of what democratic debate serves and who is defending democratic debate here in the Chamber of Deputies. [[Applause from the left side and from the center of the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, my colleague Gazdík must, according to the Rules of Procedure, know this very well, wait with priority right, because I now have the factual point of Mr Kučera, after him Vice-President Bartošek and then other colleagues. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u42	Thank you for your word. Of course, I was very pleased to learn about democracy from the mouth of Vice-President Filip. However, let me actually comment on two matters. The first is to put a little bit into context at which time we're discussing this one I won't say snooping Balkan tunnel, he doesn't like it, although that's true. We are discussing this at a time when Minister Took does not work at the Ministry of Transport, there are problems, online transmissions do not work, people arriving at the STK have problems with the online transmission. Please note that the electronic sales log has many times more transmission than the STK. We are discussing this at a time when the Minister Němeček at the Ministry of Health does not work electronic recipes, for another reason. Again, the online transmission doesn't work because of some database licenses. We're discussing this at a time when the Prime Minister's hackers, who I don't know who to pay, were mopping out an e-mail box at a time of great risk. The fact that electronic sales records are a huge security risk, and I repeat here again, mentions the study itself, which was prepared for the Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. In the context of these events that have happened at this time, I do not understand why the Minister of Finance wants to enforce such an unprepared project - such an unprepared project - at all costs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u43	Mr. Colleague, your time for a point of fact is over. I insist you don't abuse the Institute's factual remarks. I'll insist on it with everyone! [[Let's hear it for some Members.]] A factual point serves to comment on the course of the discussion, not to replace the debate. My colleague Bartošek isn't here, so he's losing his point of fact. Mr. Colleague Plíšek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u44	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues, I would like to respond to the speech by the Minister of Finance, who has spoken more today than at first and second reading, but at first and second reading did not respond to my fundamental reservations, which consisted in the fact that the draft law presented from my point of view - and partly said so by the Legislative Council of the Government - contradicts the law of the European Union in this area of business management by the State, because the fundamental founding act of the European Union speaks of the state having to treat business operators equally and equally. This is not the case in this proposal. For some entities the obligation is introduced after a certain period of time, some business entities have a permanent exception by law and for other entities the government can even literally check with its regulation when they are incorporated into this system. Then there are other business entities, which are small entrepreneurs and businessmen, who are to enter this system more than two years after the effectiveness of this law, which is already in the next parliamentary term, and that is the question of how it will be. That means there is a discrepancy with the law of the European Union. And the second fundamental point concerns non-compliance with our Czech constitutional law, because the Constitution provides that obligations can be based on the law. This bill refers to the fact that the government, by its regulation, means implementing legislation, will say who will have a temporary exemption and who will be included in the system or, on the contrary, excluded from the sales registration system. Even some of the Treasury officials did not hide out that there was a problem. That is why we will certainly turn to the Constitutional Court on this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u45	So, colleague, thank you for keeping time. Now, a colleague of Farský, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u46	Thank you for the floor. I would like to follow up on the opening words of Mr. Speaker, who mentioned that all other areas of the state are essentially covered, and that is why it is necessary to rush into EET and tradesmen. I am not convinced of this even after the original, and I would like to make a few arguments. Today, a draft bill on electronic records of sales is presented, which means that every businessman will document to the state the turnover of every penny, every crown that is. I think it's going all the way from the other side. First, the state should manage effectively, transparently and well with every crown it collects on taxes today. When we had a three-year debate on the register of contracts, the resulting compromise by the government was that it would only show contracts over CZK 50,000. Invoices, orders fell out of the system. So the government, state, public administration, on the one hand, is willing to go at the most in excess of CZK 50,000, and after the tradesmen wants a penny and a crown? It's similar with a check report. It's been there since 10,000 crowns. Everyone must report a movement in invoices of over CZK 10,000, but the state will say 50,000 and even a penny at EET? That's the next part. The next thing I knew, the second step would be that billions would start chasing each other. And one example that was mentioned here, Synthesia, from 2010 to 2013, net profit of 1.8 billion, paid in tax terms, how much? Zero. The dividends are transferred to Agrofert, but the taxes are not paid. Not a crown of income tax is paid out of billions of profits, and at the same time 3 billion subsidies are requested? Is that what EET is supposed to do for subsidies? Now that we've managed to collect taxes in billions, we can go to millions. And once we've managed to collect the million dollar amounts and the million dollar leaks, it would have been a theoretical law...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u47	Please, Mr. Ambassador, keep the time to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u48	... start chasing after the penny that's in the EET. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u49	Please observe the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Herbert Pavera, also a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I will also respond briefly to the speech by Minister Babiš, who is promoting a brand-new law on electronic records of sales. It is referred in his discussion and enforcement to the Croatian model and, as I have heard from his speech, to my experience. I confess that I was a little tempted to feel that he had some experience in bending laws and not paying taxes, and now, based on that experience, he knows how to keep others from doing that. I hope that's not the case. Mr Babiš also said that the law would be important for municipalities and cities in that it would probably bring him more tax money. What it will bring, we know for sure today, whether the taxes will be higher or not higher, we don't know yet. But what we know 100% is that it will bring more unemployed people to the village. I don't know, Minister Babiš here said about some restaurants in Prague that he goes to, that he always gets a receipt. I go to an ordinary restaurant, a pub in a village where three guys sit by a beer, the innkeeper so much that he survives, and actually the pub definitely ends. I know you're saying, yes, it's true that everything should be okay there, too. Everything should be okay everywhere. We all have our truths. You too. Of course we'll let it be voted on. But you have to tell people that they have to realize that on the one hand, they're called A, on the other hand, they're not going to tell B that it's going to affect them a lot more than the tax increases promised here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u51	Please, Mr. Ambassador, keep the time to make a point of fact. Well, thank you. Now two apologies from today's meeting: Mrs Chalánková from 12.45 and Mr Karel Tureček until the end of today's meeting day, from 12.30. Mr František Laudát's final factual comment, then with priority rights, Vice-President Gazdík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u52	Thank you, I just want to respond as Chairman of the TOP 09 and starosta Club. Mr President, please do not raise your voice to our Members. The fact that members of YES and others applaud you when you are talking about freedom and free debate is one thing. It is theirs - I have already accepted that the deficit of democracy is also very strong. However, please don't scream. Today was a very correct course of the debate, I appreciated that Minister Babiš abstained from his political Filipik this time compared to other performances, and please do not spoil it. Jermanová's not here, so there's no chaos to be done with dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u53	Thank you for your point of view. It is for each President to lead everyone to respect the Rules of Procedure. If not one of the Members kept the time to make a point of fact, I had to warn them. We will continue with the priority right of Vice-President Petr Gazdík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u54	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I would reiterate that I appreciate the fact that the debate today was really substantive, that the Minister started answering very accurately and much more sophisticated than before on our questions. I would like to clarify that, although about three of my roughly 20 comments, the serious comments I have on the EET, the Minister replied, that does not mean that I have already become a supporter of the EET. But I consider it meaningful if we have a substantive debate in the Chamber of Deputies on such a technically demanding and complicated law. You know, many of your colleagues want to propose restrictions on speaking time. The Minister himself spoke of our comments, which we made at the last meeting, for about an hour. Just none of us are Ježíš Kristus, and the law is very complicated and ununited. The way it simplifies, the way it is said when the EET is introduced, the dishonest ones will no longer be, they will all be honest, the grass will be greener and the sun will shine more, so it really isn't. And there are technical and other details of the law, which may mean a significant shift in the lives of citizens of the Czech Republic, a significant shift towards non-freedom, a corrupt environment, and it is necessary to really clarify these things. And you can't do that if you're doing it in, like, 10 or 20 minutes that you'd have the right to do according to your suggestions. So I appreciate the fact that the Minister has made factual arguments and answers questions from the opposition, even some of the citizens who are writing to us, and I will put forward more. Another objection that I have against electronic records of sales, and I would also very much like to explain it, and I have not found it too much in the explanatory report, is the situation of municipalities and cities. The municipalities and cities are also VAT payers, and I would like to hear from the Minister what it will look like in some specific cases that I cannot imagine today. I'll elaborate, but before I discuss it, I'd like to read a letter from a mayor who wrote to me and described it very accurately. Hello, Mr. Ambassador, I would like to describe some of the negatives that have not yet been presented in the present Act on Electronic Recording of Sales. Our community is - and not only our community, but also our community - the annual organizer of the pilgrimage. On this pilgrimage, he sells more than a hundred stallions of his goods. I can't imagine that we could provide for all of them an electronic network connection or that their electronic devices would last a day running on batteries. We also have no Wi-Fi available in the locality, and I highly doubt that mobile operators can handle so much online connection in the given location and time. Not to mention the fact that we like to see salesmen of folk crafts at the fair. I am very worried that these will disappear after the introduction of electronic sales records entirely from pilgrimages and social events like this. They are mostly pensioners who make wicker baskets, wooden rakes, scythes, cookers and other goods to retire. So are women who, for example, are suturing. [[13.50 hours]] For social life in our village are also important associations and their organized balls or folk entertainment in the open space. After the methanol affair, they have concession licenses for the sale of alcohol and therefore trade certificates. The village associations don't have Internet today, they don't need it. They will need several cashiers to organize proms or veselices, as standard: twice in a dressing room, once in a bar, once in a meal, once in the sale of desserts and coffee, twice in a raffle. I can't imagine selling through a cash register in a bar where there's a bunch of people standing on a junk bar and three people having something to throw at each other. They'd have to earn a few years to buy so many cashiers. So I expect they'd rather not throw proms or party, or become private events just for the invited. Yes, that is a solution that could probably be solved in order to avoid cashiers and hence taxes. A separate chapter is formed by village football or other league with sale of famous beer and sausages, and by collecting admissions for matches. I am also very worried that the village craftsmen, today tradesmen, will again become minions, who will also be registered at the employment offices, and therefore the state will pay them twice. It is also worth considering that taxpayers who do not pay for the low income of not reaching the fixed tax ceiling. If they're selling something, they're gonna have to get a cashier themselves. That, from my point of view, is another argument that we should consider. I am very concerned about how electronic sales records will be dealt with in particular by small municipalities, by village dancers. We have here a so-called anti-smoking law whose ideas were that the organizer of the event would have to ensure that he would not be allowed to smoke at a public event, even in the outdoors. I believe that this is a particular example of this, I believe that this House of Deputies will not approve such nonsense. But the idea, and both of them are government proposals that you should make sure that people don't smoke at the village dance after midnight, to make sure that sellers go under the e-booking of sales law, don't be angry, that is, from my point of view, the actual liquidation of federal activities and fun events, especially in the countryside. So much for one question. I'll make another question, or another one close to me who doesn't know what to do with the law. Hello. I will try to think about the electronic record of sales from the perspective of a smaller accounting firm that keeps accounts and processes the tax agenda for small businessmen. Accounting firms are often the ones who are most concerned about electronic sales records because they have experienced various tax changes in the history of many times. And even past governments weren't clean about it. We know that some things have been approved and approved at the last minute today, and accounting firms are the ones who will have to deal with it in some way. First of all, I think it would be a fundamental mistake to look at EET isolated as one duty that a businessman has. In view of this, it might actually seem like getting involved in some clever box that sends something somewhere shouldn't be a problem. However, the problem is not so much in the electronic record of sales, but in the totally liquidation mix of obligations that entrepreneurs already have to comply with. To be objective, I must say that the first problems have already occurred during the predecessors of Minister Babiš. The state administration has learned to use computing and communication -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u55	Mr Vice-President, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment, please, to the House for peace. Hold on for six more minutes, I'll actually fulfill what I promised that under § 54 para. 9 I will have the House vote on the suspension of this meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u56	I, Mr Vice-President, will be happy to work with you on this. Sorry, I don't know where I left off... The state now wants to gather information that if it wanted to get on a paper form, it wouldn't be able to process it. It started with innocently mandatory data boxes for legal persons, later followed by the introduction of a delegated tax obligation, and thus the obligation to submit a record report pursuant to Section 92, compulsory electronically. An improvement followed in the sense that whoever already has a DS must only submit most of the submission to the Financial Office electronically. In addition, electronically, this means not serving in PDF format, which everyone usually understands, but in XML format, which almost nobody understands, but must submit. There was such an absurd situation where, for example, a carpet rug was placed by another payer, and thanks to this, the idiots had to deal with how to put something they didn't know and didn't understand electronically at the financial office. Therefore, those who could not solve the submission themselves must necessarily contact the accounting firm, which carries with it the first increased costs. If he'd stayed with it, there wouldn't be so much going on. Unfortunately, there is an additional, different obligation or modification of the obligations already in force. It followed under the pretext of combating tax evasion by extending other forms, corporate taxation, and thus increasing the diligence of compliance with legal obligations towards the tax administrator. In addition, other authorities and in a similar spirit, such as the Czech Social Security Administration, have not lamented. We haven't gotten to the EET yet, and entrepreneurs are already dealing with what they didn't have to deal with before, unfortunately, namely that they filed something in XML at the tax office and the tax administrator called them to remedy the defects in the submission generally formulated by the call that it was not done in a specified format. A small businessman instead of a business must deal with an absolutely incredible bureaucracy in the removal of "incorruptible errors" where, for example, the submission is not accepted due to an error in the number descriptive or in the telephone number, e-mail, and so on. This probably caused the multiple number of hours needed to process the previously trivial administration. Our company charges for its services by hourly rate, and therefore we have the number of hours worked on individual submissions recorded in detail. This, of course, made a significant price increase, as the number of billing hours increased. The problem is that small businesses no longer have such expensive services. After the introduction of electronic sales log, then the control report will increase the number of hours even more, and this, according to my estimate, will be reflected not only in the number of billed hours, but also in the rate increase per hour, because they will have to accept additional strength for all of this, and so will wage costs. A small comparison for one client to whom we process approximately seven identical reports. The average time of processing of one corporate tax in 2012 was two hours, in 2013 it was three hours and in 2014 it was five hours. [[acknowledgment]] Until processing tax returns, you also have to calculate not only the time of filling out the form and identifying the data, but also the solution to calls and calls with the tax administrator, which is caused, for example, by the fact that the tax administrator has failed to load something or there is some formal error in the submission or simply something is not right and so on. I also listen very often to my clients 'we don't have the money for that' in a situation where electronic sales records or control reports do not yet have to be dealt with. We are currently having several disputes with the tax office, where the tax administrator is unable to understand that if he fails to import the XML file from the taxpayer, this may not necessarily mean a mistake on the taxpayer's side. I could continue to do so, but since the 14th hour is approaching, and I promised the Vice-President that I would allow him to vote on the suspension of this point, thank you for your attention, dear fellow Members.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-08-ps2013-037-03-001-999.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen, ministers, pursuant to § 54 para. 9 of the Rules of Procedure Act, on the basis of the agreement of the Presidents of the Members' Clubs, I propose that this item be interrupted and that this meeting be suspended by 22 January to 9 o'clock, which means that as soon as we start the meeting on Tuesday through next week, it will be suspended on Thursday afternoon for the continuation of this meeting. I think we all understand each other. We will decide in the vote number 12, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 12, from 153 in favour of 126, against 1, the proposal was adopted. The negotiations of this meeting on these two points in the merged debate shall be suspended until 22 January 9 hours. Thank you. Have a nice weekend.
