ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-004-223.u1	223. Government bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended /German press 839/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill in the first reading. With priority rights, Mr Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-004-223.u2	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the opposition is well aware of the precarious position of the government, which, due to its laxity and inability to implement the new rules on excise duty refund, has already been under an unauthorized public support regime on the 12th day. Although the government has already imposed on itself in December that new rules must be submitted to the European Commission by 1 July, we have 12 July and there is no such thing. So we understand, we understand the government's attempt to approve this at first reading, if possible. However, we would really like to help you in this case. We do not like it when the government of the Czech Republic, even though we are not members of it, looks like artless people. But we would only help you if you were able to keep the law. At the time when the Government asks for the reasons that it states here that it is the implementation of the European Union, so if the Government asks for approval under Section 90, directly Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure says - and I am quoting the law: If the reason is that the implementation of the obligations arising from the treaties by which the Czech Republic is bound - which in this case certainly is - the petitioner will submit a full translation of the legal standards to be implemented. I have now checked with my colleagues from the two parliamentary clubs whether the petitioner fulfilled this legal obligation or not. I didn't. It's the law. Why would he do that? And as much as our heart hurts, however much we really wanted to help and accommodate you, so because you can't, you can't even comply with the legal order of the Czech Republic, we can't allow a hearing under a paragraph whose wording you haven't fulfilled, and on behalf of both the two MPs, TOP 09 and ODS, I would like to express the veto on the proceedings under Section 90, whose letter you were unable to fulfil in your inability to fulfil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-004-223.u3	Thank you. And now, under the authority of the Government, I ask that the proposal be made by the Minister of Agriculture, Marian Jurečka. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-004-223.u4	Thank you. Madam President, my dear colleagues, my fellow Members, allow me to introduce the Government's bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended. The aim of the bill is to extend the tax advantage of mineral oils consumed in plant production, as well as to mineral oils consumed in selected animal production and animal production activities. The draft law is intended to ensure that persons engaged in selected activities of animal production and animal production are allowed to claim the refund of excise duty on mineral oils which have been consumed for selected activities of animal production and animal production. In particular, it is the breeding of bovine, porcine, poultry, sheep or goats for the production, production and processing of animal products or the production of breeding and breeding animals of those livestock species. The introduction of this instrument will contribute at least partly to reducing the risk factors currently manifesting in animal production and animal production. The refund of part of the excise duty on mineral oils to persons using these mineral oils for animal production complies with all the conditions laid down in Commission Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009 of 20 November 2009 laying down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulations (EC) No 1224/2009 and (EC) No 1224/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and repealing Council Regulations (EC) No 1224/2009 and (EC) No 1224/2009 and (EC) No 1224/2009 and (EC) No 1224/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 354, 31.12.2008, p. 1). This Decision is addressed to the Member States. However, the aid must be notified within 20 working days of the date of entry into force of this draft law. In view of the length of the legislative process and the need for accelerated approval of the proposed measure, the Government proposed to discuss this draft law pursuant to § 90 para. 2 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended, so that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic may give its consent to this bill at first reading. However, in view of the current deepening agricultural crisis, it would be appropriate to discuss the government's proposal in the standard legislative process and to consider, in committee discussions, how the Government's bill could still be adjusted to help farmers more than proposed in government-negotiated material. In view of the need for an accelerated approval of the changes that will lead to a reduction in the agricultural crisis, I would also like to ask for the possibility of a short hearing in committees for 30 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-004-223.u5	I thank you and now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-004-223.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, before I submit my intelligence report, please allow me to briefly recapitulate the government decisions that led to today - unfortunately only today, I thought we would have it much earlier in view of the decisive date of 1 July 2016 - this draft. History, considering the approval of the consumer refund from green oil last year, the history of this draft began at the meeting of the Government on 7 December 2015, when the Government discussed the material submitted by the Minister of Agriculture and adopted a resolution on the refund of part of the excise duty on mineral oils to persons using these oils for animal production, as the current adjustment always concerned only plant production according to the size of hectares. The government also adopted this day's resolution by imposing on the Vice-President of the Government for the economy and the Minister for Finance on this point to draft an amendment to the Consumer Tax Act, as amended, as proposed by the Minister for Agriculture. Of the 13 ministers present, 11 voted in favour. And it is not difficult to guess that the two ministers who have benefited from this are not voting - the Minister of Agriculture is shaking his head, that is, not only the Minister of Finance, who is benefiting from it. If the Minister of Agriculture has supported this, he will also benefit directly from it, because regardless of the fact that he has transferred his agricultural assets to his wife - we know all the institutions of the joint property of the spouses, i.e. the economic benefits of Mrs Jurečková concern logically also Mr Jurečka. But I mention this only for the sake of order, so that it is clear from all the ministers of the Czech Government that finance ministers and agricultural ministers benefit from this property. [[16.40 hours]] The Minister of Finance did not fulfill this task until April 18th! Given that the government was aware that July 1 is a decisive date - I am not really able to understand what lasted four months on those two paragraphs, but it did so, and until April 18, the Minister of Finance submitted this proposal to the Government. The government adopted this proposal by the Minister of Finance and ordered him to defend the Minister of Agriculture. In paragraph 4 of its resolution, it requires the Minister of Finance to defend the Minister of Agriculture. And then she thought, I don't know what led to this thought, because in paragraph 4, she authorised the Minister of Agriculture to make this proposal on behalf of the government, which, of course, and at point 5, she still empowered the Prime Minister to think and seize another minister. The Minister of Transport here has the authority of the Prime Minister, and he was indeed prepared to submit it on the basis of his authorization. Probably the gentlemen at the last minute realized that this would be too embarrassing, so they do not present the Minister of Transport, as we could still believe at noon, because he was equipped with the Prime Minister's authority, at least the Minister of Agriculture is presenting. However, there is no doubt that here, as in many other cases, we are faced with a really megaconflict of interests. At the same time, the Minister of Finance is the biggest beneficiary of the advantage that we are being given here, and so is the Minister of Agriculture. The government was asked for a task for the Minister of Finance by one of the ministers involved in the property, the other Minister of property submitted it to the government, the government approved it, and since both ministers are engaged in the property, he and the Prime Minister signed a bill that you have before you - which member of the government, ladies and gentlemen? Now, you can guess if it was the Finance Minister who submitted the bill or the Minister of Agriculture who was instigated by the Ministry of Finance to process the proposal. No, the bill was signed by Minister Tok next to the Prime Minister! We have on our tables a draft of the Consumer Tax Act, which, in terms of competence, belongs to the Minister of Finance, in terms of materiality it belongs to the interests of the Minister of Agriculture, in terms of the private interests of their families' income it belongs to the interests of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Agriculture - and is signed by Minister Tok. I therefore believe that it is absolutely impossible for us to discuss this proposal without the presence of the Minister of Finance. Maybe everything's perfectly okay. But the questions, the suspicions, there are so many that I can't imagine discussing this proposal without the presence of the Minister of Finance. I firmly hope that, as rapporteur, I will not be forced to ask my questions until the Minister of Finance arrives. I am prepared for this, but I think that the effectiveness of our actions could not benefit. I have already asked you, when approving this programme, if we could not discuss this point tomorrow, when the Minister of Finance will be here. He is in Brussels today on Ecofin, it simply cannot be discussed that he is fully excused, but also tomorrow we have a meeting day, a number of important points ahead of us, and if this proposal is interrupted and firmly included for tomorrow afternoon, we are able to discuss it in the presence of both interested ministers. If we insist that we have to discuss it today, we'll just discuss it for as long as both interested ministers are here. I am asking for rational consideration of each of us in this House due to the extraordinary sensitivity of this issue, which should be particularly tormented by the Government of the Czech Republic, if it claims, however, that it is the government of anti-corruption. I would therefore like to put forward a procedural proposal in order to interrupt the discussion of this point and to include its continuation as a fixed point tomorrow immediately after lunch break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-004-223.u7	Thank you. So, rapporteur, just to reiterate your procedural proposal. You're suggesting that the item be interrupted and its fixed classification for tomorrow as the first item, but that's the program's adjustment. So if you don't mind, I'm gonna interrupt the House meeting for five minutes and then we'll get back to the hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-004-223.u8	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, we will continue. The rapporteur, who wants to modify his procedural proposal, is still reporting with priority rights. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-004-223.u9	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Following the discussion of the Members' Club Chairs, which I respect, of course, I would like to modify my proposal when I proposed to interrupt and continue tomorrow immediately after lunch break, I would like to propose that we interrupt and continue tomorrow immediately after the discussion of paragraph 224. I note that paragraph 224 is "against the legalisation of the proceeds of crime' presented by the Minister of Finance, and then we would immediately follow up with the continuation of the point of excise duty. So this is my procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-12-ps2013-048-05-004-223.u10	Thank you for the modification. This is a procedural proposal that we will vote on without debate. We will vote on interrupting this item by tomorrow until item 224 is discussed. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 180, 169 Members and Members registered, for 121, against none. The motion has been accepted, and I am interrupting item 223. The next item is:
