ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-009-007.u1	7. Government bill amending Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on assistance in material distress, as amended /house print 783/ - second reading Under the authority of the government, the bill submitted will be introduced by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová. Madam Secretary, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-009-007.u2	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Members of Parliament, this bill has already been explained in detail in the first reading. So I would like to remind you that this amendment was made in particular in the context -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-009-007.u3	I'll ask the House for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-009-007.u4	- thank you - with the amendment last, when a section was given here by the Member's proposal to the Law on material distress, which concerns the conditions for the approval of the municipality in the case of the assessment of the entitlement to the housing supplement at the applicant who is staying at the so-called hostel. This adjustment has been effective since May 2015 and has actually started to cause major application problems in practice. But since there is also a requirement for municipalities to enter into the decision-making process, we have prepared an amendment that takes into account - which leaves the approval of the municipality, albeit as a recommendation, nevertheless sets criteria for assessing whether someone really has or does not receive the supplement. Within those criteria, for example, he states that the person who is entitled is a person who is somehow connected with the community. That means it's justified that he should stay there. At the same time, it is clarified that it is actually justified that it needs to be accommodated in a non-standard housing form, such as a hostel. At the same time, mutual cooperation between the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic and the municipalities in the delegated scope, or those entrusted by the municipal authorities, is deepened and defined more precisely in order to evaluate together the applicants for this benefit. At the same time, we propose that the maximum eligible cost of the hostel for the benefit be only 80 per cent of the so-called standard for housing. Otherwise, I would also like to say that, of course, I am not opposed to the various partial amendments, but that I do not support the amendments either to Mr Pastuchová or to Mr Vilímec, who have been discussed and discussed in the Committee on Social Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-009-007.u5	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. The Committee's resolutions and records were delivered as House press 783/1 and 2. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Pavlína Nytrová, take the floor, inform us of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-009-007.u6	Thank you for the floor. Let me introduce you to the resolution of the 45th meeting of the Social Policy Committee of 1 September 2016 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on aid in material distress, as amended. Following the opening words of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová and Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jiří Vaňásek, MP Nytrová Pavlína's intelligence report and after the debate the Committee on Social Policy of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic adopted no resolution. When voting on the recommendation that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic should agree to a government bill amending Act No. 111/2006 Coll., on assistance in material distress, as amended, with approved amendments, 7 Members voted against resolution 5, 5 abstentions. The motion for a resolution has not been adopted. No other motion for a resolution has been tabled. The Social Policy Committee has dealt with two amendments. Parliament's amendment to Mr Pastuchová and Mr Vilímec. The purpose of Mrs Pastuchová's amendment is to formulate a procedure in which, when deciding the Czech Labour Office on the admission of the housing supplement to substandard housing forms, considerable cases, the employment office can recognise a person as being worthy of special consideration when a person is actively seeking adequate housing - which is consistent with the current wording of the Act on aid in material distress; asks the municipality in which he has a permanent residence or in which he is actually staying, for assistance in obtaining an apartment - in line with the current wording of the Act; the municipality does not make the offer of the apartment and gives the person a recommendation of the next procedure. [[After?]] The Office of Labour of the Czech Republic decides with the proposal of the House Press 783 using information in addition to the recommendation I spoke about above, the municipal authority responsible or the asylum office. Furthermore, if a person has been offered housing from the municipality and the person does not accept it, the municipality informs the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic about this, in line with the current wording of the law on assistance in material distress. The petitioner releases the obligation of the Czech Labour Office to process the motivational plan for the recipients of the housing supplement and further deletes the adjustment that if the recipient does not provide synergies when drawing up the plan or behaves without serious reasons in a way that does not comply with the incentive plan, he is no longer recognised as a case of interest and loses entitlement to the benefit. Concerning Mr Vilímec's amendment to the amendment to the Act on Assistance in Material Need: The petitioner releases the obligation of the Czech Labour Office to process the motivational plan with the recipient of the housing supplement in substandard housing forms. The reason, according to the petitioner, is the formality of the procedure. It also releases an adjustment in the transitional provisions that the reduction of the maximum deductible amount from 90 per cent to 80 per cent of the normative housing costs for hostels will take place only after 12 calendar months from the date of entry into force of the amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-009-007.u7	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate to which I record Mr Vilímec's application. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-009-007.u8	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I have already announced at first reading that we want to assess in committees and during second reading the adequacy of some of the provisions of this amendment, both from the point of view of the competence of the municipalities at all when approving the housing supplement, while ensuring so-called local knowledge, but also the deductible limit of justified housing costs at the residential hotels, in the case of the substandard housing. [[15.10 hours]] The Minister mentioned that the proposal, which he submitted in a way other than the current regulation, involved the municipalities in the housing supplement approval mechanism. Even in the debate on the Committee on Social Policy and here the Minister has done so, overlaps the concepts of the municipality municipal office, delegated municipal office etc. I think that's absolutely essential. And when we talk about the entry of municipalities into, let's say, the so-called survey. local knowledge, so we cannot reduce it to municipal authorities and to a certain type of delegated municipal authorities, i.e. more or less state administration carried out in the territory of more municipalities called. social workers. That needs to be realized. I've been looking at how many municipalities there are. At the moment I know this almost by heart, but it is 6 253 according to statistics and delegated municipal authorities, i.e. the type that's incorporated into the bill, the so-called. 2nd municipalities, is only 393. So if the government's proposal for some sort of competence to delegated municipal authorities is set up, that basically means that 5,850 municipalities, i.e. municipalities which have neither an authorised municipal authority nor a separate authority have any possibility to influence or regulate the provision of a housing supplement. That's just the situation. In particular, however, in the case of residential hotels, the payment of the housing supplement may lead to an excessive concentration of certain social impacts for a particular municipality, without at least preventing such a risk from being mediated by the relevant municipality. I note that a number of residential hotels are located in municipalities which have neither an authorised municipal office nor a municipal office with extended scope. It's just located in small villages. The representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs stated on the Social Committee, not directly the Minister, that the original intention of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs was to involve all municipalities in the assessment of local conditions, but the Government Legislative Council refused to do so with the fact that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs had to choose only one category of municipalities. Well, I don't really believe it, but if that's true, then there's a lot of evidence of the work of the Government Legislative Council. It is evident that the municipality also has to be given a certain opportunity to comment on the housing supplement, respectively. the local conditions in particular in the case of the substandard housing. Indeed, this cannot be done with authority by an unelected official working in yet another community. The authority which the municipalities obtained when deciding on the housing supplement on the basis of Mr Stanjura's proposal is considered not entirely in accordance with the Constitution by the Ministry of the Interior. I don't want to discuss it. Of course, the only institution to say this is not the Ministry of the Interior, but the Constitutional Court. The Ministry of Labour therefore proposes a change in this matter. In such a legislative scare, they choose a path that, once again, places many communities more or less in the role of the statists. I have already tabled an amendment to the committee, which was discussed here by the rapporteur Nytrová, who was concerned, on the one hand, with the abolition of writing conditions. motivational plans. In fact, the proposal was identical to Mrs Pastuchová, only otherwise formulated. As well as in a situation where the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs eventually leaned towards a very slight reduction in the so-called border. I consider it unthinkable that the period of legalisation of this measure should be 12 months. I don't see any justification for that. Maybe some political stuff, but I don't want to talk about that right now. Therefore, I have already proposed to the Social Committee that the hostels should not have the exception, because I consider it unfounded that the effectiveness of the measure, the reduction from 90 to 80 per cent, should occur as with other provisions of the law from six months after the application of the law. I consider this obviously sufficient time to adapt, which should, on the contrary, motivate the applicant to seek adequate housing. These proposals from me to the Committee on Social Policy have been approved, but, as we know, the Committee has then not adopted any resolution. I must say that even after the meeting of the Social Committee, I consulted the Union of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic about the whole problem of the housing supplement and the involvement of municipalities in the process, because it is important for me that the municipality in its own capacity can express itself in some form on the housing supplement. I therefore add to the amendment, which I will then read in a detailed debate, the possibility for municipalities to participate in constitutionally in the prevention of socially undesirable phenomena associated with the further concentration of the population, the applicants for a housing supplement in the residential hotels. The purpose of this amendment should not be, as Dan Jiránek told the Social Committee, to trade in poverty, but rather to set certain rules on how to prevent such phenomena. The essence of my proposal is the authority of the municipality - and here I am pointing out in separate scope, i.e. municipalities, not municipal authorities - to identify on their territory locations where further concentrations of persons with a housing supplement may entail significant social impacts on the territory of the municipality and, where appropriate, recommend the maximum number of persons to whom an additional housing supplement should be provided in the locality. It is a kind of addition to identifying local knowledge by the municipal authorities, which gives the municipalities adequate powers. This proposal is more or less not designed to be directly vetoing the provision of a housing supplement, such as the current regulation in its present form, but it is an important instrument with which the labour authorities must deal in administrative proceedings. Similarly, I propose to provide for the authority of the municipality to require from the employment office, as part of the interaction between the aggregated data on the number of persons to whom the housing supplement is provided in the locality. These are partial proposals which the Minister does not defend, as he said, but I note, very important proposals, which are also supported by the Union of Cities and Municipalities of the Czech Republic. Even these proposals fell in external commentary proceedings by the Union of Cities and Municipalities of the Czech Republic and, above all, allow municipalities to participate in decision-making on the housing supplement within a separate scope. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-009-007.u9	I thank and ask if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. I ask the plaintiff if she is interested in the final word. That's right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-009-007.u10	Thank you and I'll be very brief. I just wanted to remind you and point out that we were actually told by the President of the Government's Legislative Council that we should address the situation with the approval of the municipality by simply removing it from the law. And I didn't agree to it. I told you he must stay there in some form. So that is my answer to that when, for example, Mr Vilímec feels that the Ministry of Labour has chosen too slight a variant. We voted for the option to make sure the community had something to say, and at the same time we weren't attacked by violating constitutional order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-009-007.u11	Thank you. And I'm asking the rapporteur if she's interested... He's not interested in the final word. Therefore, at this point I am opening up a detailed debate to which I am registering Mr Vilímec's application. Please get him to the microphone, Mrs Pastuchová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-009-007.u12	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will only apply to the amendment which is marked under House document 4834 in the system. This amendment really ensures that the municipality, not the municipal authorities and the state administration in the designated municipalities, can intervene effectively in the whole housing supplement approval process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-009-007.u13	Thank you, and please, to Mrs Pastuchová's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-009-007.u14	Thank you. I would like to sign up for my amendment under number 4829, which actually addresses the same thing that Mr Vilímec proposes, with the fact that the municipalities must be able to deal actively with the situation on their territory. Another part of this amendment is the abolition of the proposed incentive plan because it would be the fourth document. I think instead of writing and creating another dead document, it is necessary to pay attention to a living client. I would also apply to Amendments 4846 and 4854. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-009-007.u15	Thank you, and I ask if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate? I see no one, so I am ending the detailed debate and ending the second reading of this proposal. We will now proceed to the discussion of the point.
