ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-021-014.u1	14. Government draft law on the collection of selected data for the purpose of monitoring and management of public finances / House printing 746/ - second reading On behalf of the Government, this item will also be presented by the Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-021-014.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I present to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic the Government's proposal for a law on the collection of selected data for the purposes of monitoring and management of public finances, which was referred to the second reading after the discussion of the Guarantee Budget Committee. It is a government proposal for a lesser-scale law, but substantial in terms of compliance with EU membership commitments and the International Monetary Fund in the field of reporting and government financial statistics. The Act is intended not only to complete the transposition and implementation process of Council Directive 2011/85/EU of 8 November 2011 on requirements for the budgetary frameworks of the Member States, but also to follow up directly with the Act on the rules of budgetary responsibility. In terms of transparency and consistency of legislation as well as bindingness and a certain degree of flexibility, a variant of the new law and the implementing decree has been chosen. Other variants would mean a great fragmentation or non-systemicity of the relevant legislation across the Czech legal order. The main purpose of the bill is to obtain economic data from, say, the remaining entities of the general government sector. It is a very diverse group of entities from the point of view of legal form, size and subject of activity, from which the Ministry of Finance does not yet receive any data under the applicable legal order, or are completely insufficient for the purpose of fulfilling the obligations of EU membership and the International Monetary Fund. Their list is listed in the explanatory memorandum on page 1. 8 or 14-15 of Parliament's Press No. 746, their planting throughout the general government sector demonstrates the scheme on page. 7. In the light of the proper fulfilment of the requirements of Council Directive 2011/85/EU and in the light of full compatibility with EU law, it is necessary that the scope of the addressees and the obligations of this proposed legislation be fully maintained or not modified in any way. The addresses of the proposed legislation will provide information on their revenue and expenditure in a simple breakdown, which will allow data consolidation, inter alia. Central government must report data on a monthly basis under the EU Council Directive. To limit the excessive administrative burden, it is agreed with the European Commission that small units will have a quarterly reporting obligation, as will local government. These units shall be selected on the basis of the cost criterion set out in Section 3 (3). Furthermore, from the point of view of the rule of law system, the obligation has been transferred from accounting legislation to the draft law on government guarantees - it applies to state funds, local authorities, voluntary associations of municipalities and regional councils of cohesion regions - and public-private partnerships projects - it applies to state organisational units, state funds, local authorities, voluntary associations of municipalities, contribution organisations, public universities and centrally managed public research institutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-021-014.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 746/1 and 746/2. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Roman Procházka, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and of any possible amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-021-014.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The honourable Member, colleagues, the Committee on Budgets dealt with this law at its 45th meeting on 31 August 2016 and adopted Resolution No 501, which reads as follows: After recapitulating the rapporteur of Mr Procházka and following the debate, the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic first recommends that the Chamber of Deputies approve the Government's draft law on the collection of selected data for the purposes of monitoring and management of public finances without comment; Secondly, it empowers the rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, which I am doing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-021-014.u5	Thank you, too. I am opening up a general debate and asking who is applying for it. I don't see anyone. If that is the case, I am ending the general debate. I refer to any final remarks made by the rapporteur or the appellant. It's not like that. I therefore launch a detailed debate and ask who Members of Parliament are reporting for a detailed debate. No one's reporting, in which case, I'm ending the debate in detail. Here, too, I ask the appellant or rapporteur whether you want the final words. It's not like that. In that case, I shall end the second reading of this proposal. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
