ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-009-047.u1	47. Proposal by Members Michal Kučera, František Laudát and others for the law amending Act No. 44/1988 Coll., on the Protection and Use of Mineral Riches (Mountain Law), as amended /German Press 220/ - First Reading The debate was interrupted yesterday, Tuesday 12. 7. I therefore ask who is reporting for the debate. First, the plaintiff. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-009-047.u2	Thank you for the floor. I'm just going to fill in my opening report more or less briefly, which I said here at the beginning. I would like to point out once again that we are going to decide here today whether or not to prohibit dangerous extraction methods that are used in the mining of shale gases and in the underground gasification of coal. These methods are dangerous because they can significantly endanger the state of groundwater. We have heard discussions here today, especially in the morning, about how some segments of our economy affect drought in the countryside. I want to say that these mining methods are so devastating that in the event of an accident of such a well, for example, in the exploration - because it is important to realize that the same technology is used both in exploration and in mining - that the research itself is as dangerous as mining - so the accident of such a well can cause irreversible damage to groundwater, which means contamination of groundwater with the hydraulic fluid. I mean, by this law, this amendment, we do not go against the spirit of the upper law. In the upper law, one dangerous mining method, which is banned, is cyanide mudging of gold, has already been exhaustively listed. This means that this dangerous mining method, the cyanide pudding of gold - we all remember those demonstrations that took place in Moskre and Sazava and Vltava, in the region, and these huge demonstrations led to the ban on cyanide mudging of gold in the upper law - so this dangerous mining method would add two more, and that is a ban on fracturing in the extraction and exploration of unconventional natural gases and an ban on underground coal gas gasification. Yesterday I mentioned here that the report submitted by the government is not entirely accurate in many matters. It says that the concept of unconventional natural gas is not known, although I have already mentioned here that unconventional natural gas is referred to as terminus technicus in professional studies. It is even directly defined by defining the basic concepts of what conventional gas bearings mean and what unconventional gas bearings mean. In this, the government report is very inaccurate. I believe that we will have the opportunity here to debate this proposal in the committees, that we will not come to this here - without getting to know this issue further, and it is a professional topic, it is no policy - that we would reject it at first reading. I think that this discussion should certainly take place at least in the Committee on the Environment or Economic Committee. In the event that we do not agree to this, we can, of course, say no at third reading. I think that rejecting this law at first reading would only be contempt for those people who feel threatened in the given locations. I have been talking more or less about the extraction of shale gases, but I would also like to mention the underground gasification of coal. I don't know if we're all aware of what's going on. This is - and now, if you'll excuse me for saying this in a little layman's way - about drilling two wells, pumping oxygen through one well, and actually burning the coal component that starts to burn uncontrollably underground. The gas generated by the burning is taken and mined to the surface. I'm sorry to say this in a bit of layman's terms, but I think it's understandable that way. I mean, so far, we haven't been able to invent a technology that would put out this coal shell that is ignited. There's no such technology. Even though the gas or oxygen will not be pumped there to support the burning, it may continue to burn. I would like to point out that there are such bearings in our country. Such bearings are between Mělník and Venice nad Jizerou. Here I would like to draw attention, for example, to the Central Bohemian Members - between Mělník and Venice nad Jizera, there are about a billion tons of geological reserves of coal. Of course, not everything can be exploited by this method, but about 50 to 70 percent can be extracted by underground coal gasification. That's the kind of reasoning that's been going on here. So I think that banning these mining methods after expert discussions in committees can contribute to the certainty of the people in these regions. [[15.00 hours]] Again, I'm not going to extend it anymore. Again, I hope we can have this expert debate. This law is not political, it is purely professional. It doesn't involve any emotional insights, but it's purely technical. This means that committees should really decide about this, and not reject this law at first reading only from some sense that it is redundant. I hereby very much intercede for this amendment to be admitted to committees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-009-047.u3	Thank you, Mr. plaintiff. The rapporteur is another one registered with priority rights. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-009-047.u4	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, colleagues. Yesterday we are to this House press No. 220 have already paid enough attention, and here the relevant views have fallen on this House's press. We need to think more or less about what arguments have fallen here. And today we have also heard that this counter is mostly politically argued. Unfortunately, by mixing political arguments with technical arguments, there are such inaccuracies as we have just heard. We discussed the draft of this House press, as I said yesterday, in the context of the debate of the House press 500, where in part C and part D we rejected these two proposals with full seriousness as the House. I won't repeat the reason. We'd be spinning into useless discussions again. I just want to assure you that there is no threat that this proposal will not be incorporated into the upper law - which I think should be decided by the House - that there is a proper protection of public interests in terms of the environment, both for the protection of citizens and for the protection of the rock environment itself. Believe that the regulations in the field of mining business, which would, of course, fall into, are very strict given the start of the work on the new method of construction. And that's how we'd have to go. It is not in any way acceptable for such a survey to be carried out contrary to the wishes of the regions or citizens. You know what the problem is with finding nuclear waste storage. So I will no longer prolong today's negotiations. I appreciate the honored time of the Chamber of Deputies. Therefore, with full seriousness, Mr Vice-President, I propose that the bill be rejected at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-009-047.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. Another with a factual remark by Mr Josef Hájek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-009-047.u6	Good afternoon, Mr President, colleagues. I've been talking about the issue here yesterday. I said I'd propose rejection at first reading. But I didn't suggest it, the legislation brought it to my attention. The translator has already said that for me, so I'm not gonna suggest anything that's proposed again. Anyway, I would mention one more thing, and that is that the scientific and technical progress cannot be stopped. And as far as gasification is concerned, I know that in 2012 a new single well integrated flow tube method was invented, so it's kind of called a tenfold increase in efficiency for example here in this process. That means killing something that could show up in ten, in twenty, in fifty, in a hundred years as passable, I don't think it's good. One more factor is the safety issue. I have no objection to the petitioner who says that in certain situations, and mentioned here the Central Bohemian Region, this method can be harmful to groundwater and surrounding areas. But that's what we're dealing with with today's legislation. The Geological Law and indeed the Ministry of Environment will not allow that survey. So I think at this point, it's a good idea, but it's unrealistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-009-047.u7	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Ivan Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-009-047.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, I would just like to support the view that this issue has already been discussed. It took place twice on the premises of the Economic Committee. It took place in the House with the participation of representatives of the Environmental Protection Committee. If we decide to send this back to the trial, we'll just repeat the arguments that have already been made here. There's really no danger. This was agreed both by the Members of the Economic Committee and at the end of the House, which rejected the amendments. So repeating this whole process is completely counterproductive. We're going to discuss this twice again on the guarantee committee, and they're going to repeat exactly the same arguments that we've heard x times before. I will definitely support the rejection of this proposal, because there is no real threat to the environment or to the potentially affected regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-009-047.u9	I thank Mr Pilný. This has been the last one entered into the general debate so far. I'm asking if anyone else is applying. It's not like that. I am therefore ending the general debate. I'm asking for final words. There's no interest in final words. I will call our fellow Members from the lobby and we will vote on the proposal to reject the proposal as presented by the rapporteur. I'm checking you all out first. Please sign up with your voting cards. I hereby initiate the vote to reject the motion tabled. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's the number 225 vote. 130 Members and Members are registered for 99 against 23. I note that the proposal was rejected at first reading. I thank both the appellant and the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-009-047.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We will continue to discuss individual points. New apologies have arrived. From 14.30 to 15.30, Mr Holík apologizes for reasons of work. Mr František Laudát apologizes until the end of today's meeting. Furthermore, Minister Babiš apologizes at the afternoon meeting. And so far, those are all the apologies I have here. [[15.10 hours]] Let's open another point in today's meeting and that's a point.
