ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-012-037.u1	37. Government bill on consumer credit / House print 679/ - first reading We dealt with this House press on 10 February this year at the 39th meeting when we interrupted it in the general debate. I therefore ask that Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš and rapporteur for first reading, Mr Jaroslav Klaška, take their seats at the rapporteur's table. We will continue the interrupted general debate and the first to speak is the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Václav Votava, and Mr Adolf Beznoska will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-012-037.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I hope I can finish my speech this time, which was not possible last time due to the time constraints. So let me comment on the bill on credit for consumers. I believe that the credit law for consumers is the right step in the right direction. I would also like to point out that this law responds to the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. At that time, the House called on the Government in connection with the deterioration of consumer rights precisely in the provision of consumer credit and in the light of the usury practices of certain non-bank providers to increase claims, in particular, on non-bank providers, credit intermediaries and the introduction of supervision of them, which is insufficient. This is also one of the priorities of social democracy, and that is, as I said, protecting citizens from loan sharks and the unfair practices of certain providers, intermediaries in particular from the non-bank sphere. The proposed bill also responds to this, so its aim is, above all, greater consumer protection, but the aim is also to unify credit arrangements for consumers, namely consumer loans, but also mortgage loans, and to define more precise rules for the credit granting process. I would like to say that the issue of providing primarily consumer credit has already become such an evergreen. It's not the first time we've dealt with this kind of material. Social democracy, although in opposition at the time, also sought to strengthen the position of the consumer, i.e. the debtor, towards the provider, i.e. creditors. But, of course, with the fact that debts have to be paid, in any case, but the relationship between the two parties must be balanced. At the time, for example, we advocated the authorisation of the Government to set the maximum amount of RPSN, and we advocated restrictions on the aggregate amount of the contractual penalty in the event of default by the debtor. For example, we have also advocated restrictions on the decision-making of disputes through arbitration procedures. However, this parliamentary proposal by Members of Social Democracy was returned in 2012 by the Chamber of Deputies for work and, in view of the then government amendment of the law, it was no longer submitted to the House again. The amendment to the Consumer Credit Act, which entered into force at the end of February 2013, also brought some positive changes, whether it was the setting of conditions for responsible lending, i.e. the assessment of the consumer's ability to repay credit, or that was to prevent the use of notes and cheques to repay or secure credit. It was also about ensuring the credit protection requirement of value, such as real estate, relative to the value of the claim, and a number of other things that were able to be discussed and approved in this law. I would also like to point out that a seminar took place in the House last year under the patronage of the budget committee and with the participation of Members, the Ministry of Finance, the Czech National Bank, as well as credit providers of both banks and non-banks, but there were also organisations for consumer defence, but also the general public. I would also like to say that the number of topics and contributions that have been made in the debate has finally been reflected in the new credit law presented for consumers, which we are now able to discuss at first reading. [[17.20 hours]] First of all, I welcome the biggest change that concerns non-bank providers, and these today are nearly 60,000. It's not just providers, it's intermediaries. So there are nearly 60,000 of them and they are not subject to more or less any relevant control. All you have to do is have a trade license and do business on this market. Anyone who has the relevant trade license can therefore lend. Today's legislation gives only limited opportunities for dishonests, especially from among some non-banks, to prevent them from operating, to limit the use of unfair practices, to prevent usury practices against consumers. It is also a system of licensing providers to lend money, only with permission from the Czech National Bank. And the control of the Czech National Bank of these entities, I think it is very important for consumer protection, for safer lending of money, but also for the protection of own business in this market. It should be said that the measure that is proposed to license the Czech National Bank and entities on the market are subject to the control of the Czech National Bank is not only our invention or is not only in our law, in the draft law, but it is in a number of countries. I can name Ireland, Italy, Hungary. In Germany, only banks can do so. The Czech National Bank is therefore such a natural regulator of the financial market. That is why I think it is entirely justified for her to carry out this control and this licensing as well. It is also important that the entity that wants to do business on this market must demonstrate a level of professionalism, it must demonstrate a certain credibility, but also a capital background. There is a requirement that the entity that is licensed should also have the appropriate capital background. This is proposed in the amount of CZK 20 million as equity. This will certainly lead, of course, to a reduction in the number of these mainly non-bank providers, or mainly non-bank providers, when, as I have already mentioned, those providers and intermediaries are 60,000, which is an incredible number. I dare say that the market will clear up and stay, I believe that above all the honest ones, maybe to a hundred. I also expect a rich and interesting discussion in the Committee on Budgets, although, as I said, a number of things have already been discussed at the seminar. It will certainly be possible to renegotiate everything with the participation of all stakeholders, but there are things that I think we still need to have fun and which need to be taken into account and perhaps some amendments to these things, which are in the law, need to be adapted. Whatever the amount of the contractual penalty, since the contractual penalty must certainly be such, it must be proportionate that it is not for the debtor to liquidate and, above all, to ensure that the debtor is able to repay the debt. This may therefore be a reduction in the contractual penalty proposed in the draft law. But it is also, of course, an option in terms of repayment, early repayment of mortgage loans. It is good that the law also contains mortgage loans or consumer credit for housing. I think that we should also consider whether, in the case of the sale of the property, the possibility of early repayment was possible, without payment of costs or reimbursement of certain penalties to the provider, creditors. Once again, this is no news that should appear in our legal order. This is something that is common in Germany, which is common in France and also allows for a certain mobility of the workforce. Because if people who have a mortgage are to move to work, as if we often want it to be mobile, they must have the option, if they have a mortgage, to pay it back and not to impose sanctions. But it's also a question of the credit register. There are just more of these things, and I believe that, even in the Committee on Budgets and here on plenary, a number of such topics will also be heard in this material. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-012-037.u3	I thank Mr Václav Votav. Before we continue, I will make an apology to Mr Karel Fiedler, who apologizes from 17 to 17.49 hours for personal reasons. We will continue with Mr Adolf Beznoska's speech in the general debate. So far, the last in writing entered into the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-012-037.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, good afternoon again. As the President of the Committee on Budgets has said, we are going to go a little thinner and debate in the committees, and it will have to be very thorough here in plenary. I have considered this a little bit, how to sum up a short opinion on this proposal, and although I do not like regulation, I still think that this is a real step in the right direction, however it is regulation. The law is, in a way, groundbreaking. It sets the conditions. By the time I get to some points that I would like to poke, I would like to tell you that this law or similar law was adopted in Slovakia and out of the hundreds, maybe thousands of providers remained 21. So it's obvious that he's recording, especially in the area of non-bank providers, the larger and stronger ones. Otherwise, the proposal is based on a directive which largely reflects legislation on consumer credit according to the European Union. They therefore seek to cultivate the business environment and increase the opportunity for serious, especially for those serious credit distributors, because they, together today, are paying for some unfair and unprofessional acts and practices of a number of non-bank providers and intermediaries. The law therefore clearly sets out requirements for banks and non-bank distributors in particular in the field of expertise. There is a shift in financial amenities. The additional cost of adapting the new legislation should be borne by normal and serious entrepreneurs without any problems. The system should be supervised by the Czech National Bank. And it has its own specifics, because we're going to get into a situation where the bank, however central bank it is, also oversees non-bank providers. So here's a little thing to think about. The Czech National Bank should license individual providers. The proposal also categorizes on the principle of responsibility of a separate intermediary and tied agent. A separate intermediary may bind to more than one financial service provider, be responsible for itself and its tied agent and cannot be a co-sponsored agent. A tied representative may be represented only by one person, a separate intermediary or a provider responsible for it. So he can't have another tied-up rep. As far as expertise is concerned, it's increasing. There is a basic requirement for graduation and proof of professional examination. This should be done within some kind of carry-over, transitional period. It is also proposed in the law the creation of accredited services. They would be accredited by the Czech National Bank after meeting certain requirements. Besides, of course, there's no criminal record. A big change, and I think it will cause a great deal of resentment, and some of the knowledge from the seminar I'm going to tell you, I've noticed, of course, is also a big one - increasing the capital amenities of providers. There is a sum of CZK 20 million. There's gonna be a discussion about it, if it's 20 or another amount. [[17.30 hours]] The draft law also limits contractual fines to 0.1 per cent per day, but to a maximum of 70 per cent of principal and a maximum of CZK 200,000. This price regulation is justified here by the frequent occurrence of unfair non-bank market practices consisting in shifting the cost burden from standard credit costs, such as interest, due fees, to relatively less transparent contractual penalties, which may have liquidation effects for customers. I don't know if this is against any - maybe it's a little against economic principles, against the free competition, maybe it's a little against legal principles. And once again, the seminar that we co-organized for the co-operation of the budget committee, there were some headings that were particularly worthy of consideration. At the seminar it was said that the legislator disproportionately intervened in the contractual relationship of the creditor-consumer without giving the creditor the opportunity to compensate for the intervention in any way. That's the first note. The second issue, which has been discussed and will certainly be subject to further discussion, is the unclear concept of setting the overall limit of the contractual penalty on existing contracts after the law has been effective. That's gonna be a big deal. And other insights, entities covered by the law, also required a longer transitional period to implement changes to their own documents and processes that they have to process in their societies. Overall, the seminar sounded like there might be a consensus, probably the regulation is really in the right direction, but we need to find the right measure so that we don't completely clear the market. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-012-037.u5	Good evening, dear colleagues. Thank you, Mr Beznosk. With a point of fact, Mr Volný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-012-037.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the honourable House to reduce the time for negotiations between first and second reading by 30 days, i.e. to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-012-037.u7	Thank you, Mr Volný. I'm registering his request for a 30-day reduction. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If no one is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. Not interested. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. I am opening the vote on the commandment to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 260; 152 Members and Members are registered, for 112, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been directed to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee for discussion. Anybody got a suggestion? Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-012-037.u8	Hello, thank you for your word. I think there is no doubt that this proposal has its legal excess, and I suggest that this press be discussed in the Committee of Constitutional Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-012-037.u9	All right, Constitutional Committee. Does anyone else have any other proposal for a committee to discuss? It's not like that. We will vote on Mr Vondráček's proposal to further order this proposal to the Constitutional Legal Committee. I have begun voting on the commandment of this committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote 261, registered 153 Members, for 93, against none. The motion was accepted. In the last vote I have here, a proposal was made by both Minister Babiš in the introductory words and Mr Volný to shorten the deadline by 30 days to 30 days. I have begun the vote... Excuse me, there's a check-out request. I hereby declare you all and declare this vote misguided. Please sign up with your voting cards. Initiating vote to reduce the deadline to 30 days. Whoever is to shorten the deadline, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? The vote is 263, 121 Members and Members are registered, for 74, against 8. The motion was accepted. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee, a constitutionally legal committee, and we have reduced the deadline to 30 days. I'm done discussing the first reading of this bill. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is point 38.
