ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-012-061.u1	61. Government bill amending Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended, Act No. 141/1961 Coll., on Criminal Procedure (Criminal Code), as amended, and other related laws /German press 753/ - first reading Even this bill, under the authority of the Government, will be presented by the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-012-061.u2	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, in this case, this is a transposition of Directive 2014/42/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council, the implementation period being set by 4. 10. 2016. The directive concerns the provision and draining of property in criminal proceedings. For the most part, we were already ahead of the directive. However, certain interventions are necessary. First of all, the addition of a new safeguard measure will prevent parts of the property that can be deposited if the perpetrator has been found guilty by a deliberate crime of at least four years or by the offences listed, has sought to obtain or obtained property benefits and other facts have been identified on the basis of which the court considers that certain property of the perpetrator is derived from criminal activity. The gross discrepancy between the legal income and the property situation of the perpetrator is typical. At the same time, that is the second element of the proposal, legal guarantees are strengthened, on the contrary, in the case of the provision of movable items which are instruments or proceeds from a criminal offence, by introducing a form of freezing decision or for which a form of resolution against which a complaint is admissible is introduced, and that is decided by the court. So something that has not yet been under such control of the court, so it gets under it, which we also consider beneficial. Thank you, and I'm asking for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-012-061.u3	Thank you, Minister. I now ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Helena Válková to take the floor. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-012-061.u4	Mr President, dear colleagues, my dear colleagues, basically the essentials of the amendment have been said here. For your better information, I think it should also be pointed out that some points of reference have proposed to regulate this issue by means of a separate law, given its essential nature, because it is a draining of property in a way that our rule of law is not accustomed to so far, if I were to express it in such a clear way. It's basically two phases. The first is the hedging phase where the purpose is to identify and secure such suspicious property. By that suspicion, I mean that it is a return on crime or an instrument intended to serve in the financial form of crime. And phase two, it's about definitely draining the perpetrator or another person on the basis of a final decision. So the amendment concerns both the relevant detention institutions within the framework of the Criminal Code, which means that the conditions under which the competent law enforcement authorities decide on collateral and, of course, the relevant provisions of the Criminal Code, which must be supplemented when the court decides by means of a new measure on the definitive draining of the property of the perpetrator. I myself would be in favour of a separate law, but it is precisely in the light of the implementation deadlines that it is possible to do so, i.e. implement it, already within the set timetables only through amendments to the Criminal Code and the Criminal Code. The Act should take effect on 1 October 2016, with the exception of Part Eight, which is to take effect on 1 May 2017. So practice will have plenty of time to prepare for change. So I also support the adoption of the Government's proposal in this form of an amendment to the Criminal Code and the Criminal Code, not a separate law. However, I recommend that the wording of the amendment be clarified so that it better expresses the purpose pursued and actually affects only those cases where it is found to be gross, not, as proposed in essence, as I have therefore understood from the text of the explanatory memorandum, any discrepancy between the value of the property and the legal income of the perpetrator in the reference period. This can be done, for example, in the framework of an amendment or in the course of discussions at the Constitutional Legal Committee with the Ministry of Justice - it was originally tabled in this sense, but it was changed in some way in the Legislative Council. Thus, there would be an explicit expression of the gross imbalance between the value of the property and the legal income of the perpetrator, which would also correspond to the wording of another provision. 4 The same Section 102a, which I am talking about now, already contains a gross discrepancy, and the caselaw would certainly then provide a guide to the interpretation of the concept of gross ratio soon. Similarly, as regards the addition of the list of persons for whom it is considered to prevent parts of the property, this is § 102a para. Two and three, one person close. I think that, in view of the seriousness of such interference with ownership, it would also be appropriate in this case to require prior knowledge of the reasons for such transfer with a close person. So to prove that even a close person, given the circumstances and circumstances of the case, could or should have known that the perpetrator had transferred part of his property to it precisely because the property was acquired in a way illegal, such as criminal activity. So if I sum up, I definitely think that we should support the proposed amendment. It should be forwarded to a second reading, with the fact that it is still being precised in order to make a better statement about what we are trying to do, and, at the same time, the extension of a certain circle to those close to it, which will be explicitly specified, will benefit it, and I hope, therefore, that during the second reading, the amendment will still acknowledge certain changes. But what remains, of course, to the substance and the main purpose, if we agree to this today, or it could remain and should be preserved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-012-061.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate which I do not register any application for. And Mr. Vondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-012-061.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm just very brief in the debate. This is the implementation of the European directive and we have some time limit here that will expire 4. 10. 2016. The law here, the truth, doesn't lie long, it's been here since March 29th, but in any case, I'd like to intercede and propose a reduction in the time limit for the committees to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-012-061.u7	I thank the honourable Member and I note his proposal. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. I am asking about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur, as appropriate. It's not like that. We will therefore consider the proposal for a committee's order for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering the proposed proposal to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. I am opening the vote on the commandment of this motion to the constitutionally legal committee as a guarantee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 443, registered 158 Members, for 137, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee? It's not like that. In the general debate, a proposal was made to shorten the time limit for discussion pursuant to Paragraph 91 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 and 3 for 30 days. Initiating vote to shorten the deadline to 30 days. Sorry. I declare this vote confusing. There's a check-out request. I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. Initiating vote to reduce the time limit for discussion to 30 days. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 445, registered 139 Members of Parliament, for 76, against 17. The motion was accepted. I am therefore of the opinion that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutional legal committee as a guarantee and we have reduced the time limit for the hearing to 30 days. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur and end the first reading of this bill. The next item is:
