ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u1	224. Oral inhalation which are addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic or the Government of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifiers, we have drawn a ranking of Members in which they will speak and interpelate first to the Prime Minister or to the Government of the Czech Republic, from 14.30 to 16 hours, to other members of the Government from 16 to 18. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I now give the floor to the first drawn, Mr Antonín Seďa. Mr Jan zahradník will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, I am sure you will give me the truth that the issue of addressing the migration crisis and migration in general is now taken in the Czech Republic and not only in Czech society as a fundamental problem, despite the fact that the current effects of migration in our Republic are minimal. On 15 February, a summit was held between the Visegrad Four countries, where plan B was proposed if plan A, adopted by the European Union, had failed. However, on 17 and 18 February there was a meeting of the European Council, where, among other things, the issue of migration was addressed. I would therefore like to ask, Prime Minister, what are the current conclusions of this European Council and what are the main priorities in the approach to tackling the migration crisis, as well as how you have been or have not been successful in promoting the V4 proposals, or whether the Council has adopted some of the priorities that you have agreed with Visegrad. Thank you for your specific answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u3	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u4	Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr President, honourable Members. So allow me to make a few comments on the current situation in migration. I attended this morning's meeting of the Committee on European Affairs, where we had the opportunity to discuss in detail the situation in Europe today. We have an extraordinary summit on Monday. Germany has requested an emergency summit to be convened. Emphasis on this extraordinary summit will be placed on negotiations with Turkey, with the Turkish Prime Minister present. I would probably start with the expectations associated with Turkey. Because what is the priority of the Czech Republic, and I am glad that the atmosphere in Europe has changed, that is, today it is the priority of the whole European Union, the protection of the external Schengen border. The greatest weakness is the protection of the sea Schengen border. At this point, the critical points are located on the sea border between Turkey and Greece. I'm glad we have a tool to look for a solution with the Turek. The instrument is called an agreement between the European Union and Turkey. We have an action plan. We agreed with the Turek that Turkey should take active measures to prevent human trafficking, to limit illegal migration, but I do not think that enough has yet been done. That means there are still too many people coming over the Turkish-Greece border. In my view, the urgency of closing the migration route in the Western Balkans is growing. This means, at the meeting that awaits us, after the meeting with the Turkish Prime Minister, the Czech Republic wants not only to talk about how the agreement works with Turkey, but also to talk about the need to conclude the Balkan migration path so that we send a clear signal to send it to those who trade with people, who create unrealistic hopes, what all refugees in Europe are waiting for, and, of course, to refugees themselves, that it is not possible to get from Turkey to Munich or to Berlin within a few days. It is simply necessary to close the Balkan route. In addition to the closure of the Balkan route, it is necessary to help Greece. Greece cannot be left alone in this. If the wave of refugees passing through the Balkans is limited, not only Macedonia will be closed, but, of course, Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia, Austria for free passage of refugees, it is clear that in the coming weeks refugees will remain in Greece. We must help Řecko. The greatest aid to Greece will be the pressure on Turkey to finally start taking back refugees from Greece. Today, when we look at the structure of the migration stream, the situation is that about half, 60 percent, are war refugees, but 30, 40 and sometimes up to 50 percent are people who come to Europe for economic reasons. They come from countries where there is no war. They just go to Europe to improve their living conditions. But no whole in the world, not even Europe, can work by having no boundaries, no rules for immigration policy. So we want to put emphasis on Turkey's starting to take back the economic refugees that are coming to Greece. We want to help Greece in the humanitarian area, undoubtedly financially. I am pleased that the European Commission has prepared an instrument for humanitarian aid to Greece, and it must be part of the comprehensive solution that we want. You asked about plan B. The plan B actually triggered Austria because Austria was the first to say that it wanted to regulate the migration wave. I fully understand Austria's position, and that is to be expected. And so did the V4 countries. And you know that we made it clear a few weeks ago that if Germany or Austria restricts the number of refugees that it allows to cross its borders, the Balkan countries, including Macedonia, will have to respond to that. The situation has happened. And I would like Europe to provide support for the countries of the Western Balkans that have the will to protect their borders, including the support of Macedonia, but also Bulgaria and Albania. I would like this to be a joint European coordinated solution, so that countries in the Western Balkans feel the support of Europe and are able to help us in the practical solution to the migration crisis. So, if I sum up very briefly what I am going with at the European Council: To insist that Turkey fulfil its commitments, as Europe should fulfil its part of the agreement, to help Greece, to conclude a Balkan route for illegal migration. Those are the main targets I'm going to the summit with. I think there's nothing left to wait for and we should act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u5	Thank you. Does the Member wish to ask an additional question?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u6	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your specific answers. However, I agree that protection of the Schengen border is a priority. But I will remind you that, in mid-January, Donald Tusk said that there are only two months to resolve the migration crisis, otherwise Schengen is said to be falling apart. And since this deadline is coming to an end, I want to ask how you look back at this claim and what is the position of the Czech government to preserve Schengen itself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u7	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u8	Thank you. They talk about Schengen all the time. Interestingly, we began to talk so much about Schengen at the moment of the migration crisis. What does Schengen guarantee? Schengen allows us to move across borders within the countries that are part of the Schengen Treaty, which is the vast majority of the countries of the European Union. That means there are no border controls, people, goods can be freely transported across borders, no one can stop you at the border. This is Schengen, among other things. But when we canceled the internal borders, it doesn't mean we broke the external borders. A number of European representatives and representatives of the European Commission were still pretending that there are no external borders in the spring of 2015. V4 then came up with the need to protect the external borders and that everything needs to be done to ensure that rules are respected at the external borders. Then they looked at us strangely and said to themselves, "What is this V4 suggesting? Today, everyone agrees with that in principle. This means maintaining Schengen. We do not allow any minischengens, no break-up of Schengen, we do not want to exclude anyone from Schengen. We know that Greece does not fulfil its obligations. I welcome the fact that the European Commission has called on Greece. Greece has three months to prove that it will fulfil its obligations. We should help Greece do this. But not to reduce Schengen, not to break Schengen, but to strengthen the protection of the external border. Indeed, those who designed Schengen did not count on a massive, concentrated immigration wave in one time. Schengen was not prepared for this, Dublin agreements are not prepared for this. This means that we need to improve the protection of the external Schengen border now, and at the same time we also need to look for solutions for those countries that are on the outskirts, and, in fact, according to the existing rules, all refugees should seek asylum in these very countries. Of course, Europe must help these countries.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u9	Thank you. Mr Jan Zahradník will be the next interviewer and Mr Petr Fiala will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u10	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I appeal to you, Prime Minister, with the following tariff interpellation submitted by the Energy Regulatory Authority. The Energy Regulatory Authority introduced a new tariff system which was developed in cooperation with the Ministry of Industry and Trade. First, a little recap. At the end of January, the MIT expressed its support for the idea of a new tariff system. After hearing from the general public, including the Civil Democratic Party, the Ministry of Industry and Trade began to reverse and eventually you joined the ERU criticism. However, you forgot that the new tariffs The Energy Regulatory Authority didn't just work out out of the blue that it didn't fall from the sky. They are based on the strategic documents produced by your government. This is, for example, an updated energy concept or national action plan for smart networks, i.e. documents approved by your government. At the same time, last year, an amendment to the Energy Act was approved, which prejudices the new tariff system. I quote here from the explanatory memorandum to this law: "The variant of the new tariff system is therefore designed so that customers in the new system of collecting payments to support electricity from renewable and other supported sources pay the maximum amount they have in today's system, and if they optimize their reserved power consumption or the value of the circuit breaker, then they can pay even less than the current situation." I would remind you that this law was passed in the House by a very close majority of 86 votes, i.e. by a majority of just one single vote, and thus only by coalition Members. The opposition did not support or oppose the vote. So the current proposal is essentially contrary to government promises. My question is whether, as Prime Minister, you are willing to accept at least the responsibility for this proposal. For a proposal that goes against the trend of savings and against the trend of decentralised energy. [[The President draws attention to the time]] It's not just the ERÚ that came up with this new tariff. It is a government that has secured the new system's conditions. How do you intend, Prime Minister, to ensure that energy-saving people do not get more electricity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u11	Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u12	Thank you. Madam, honourable Members, first of all, I would like to say that this is a model that has been promoted in Europe. I think it has its shortcomings, but we have the Energy Regulatory Authority's system, which is a separate authority that has its powers, which the government cannot interfere in any way. I think there is a need to distinguish between the Energy Regulatory Authority and a need to distinguish the government. And even there are European directives that say that the government has no way of putting pressure on the Energy Regulatory Authority and ordering it to do what it has to do. Indeed, the ERU is an absolutely independent institution and has competence. What the government can do is change the law. And the question is, is there always the ideal cooperation between the independent regulator and the government in terms of law change? This brings me back to a topic that is often held here in the Chamber of Deputies, and that is renewable resources. Because it was the Energy Regulatory Authority that set the level of support for renewables. But it was a government that ultimately had political responsibility and that in the finals had to pay for the costs of renewable resources, and it cost us a lot of money from the state budget. About the new tariffs. New tariffs have been prepared by the Energy Regulatory Authority. I am pleased that the Energy Regulatory Authority published the proposal in good time and that a discussion could therefore be held on this proposal. The discussion made clear the great weaknesses of the Energy Regulatory Authority's proposal, and I welcomed the decision of the head of the ERO, Mrs Vitásková, that the proposal was hiding that it was no longer in play today. That even the task force that prepared the proposal was abolished. Government criticism didn't go that far. Of course, we didn't ask Mrs. Vitásková to shut down the task force. We, as a government, criticized the nature of the proposal. I will now try to express at least some of the issues of the proposal prepared by Mrs Vitásková and published it. I've asked the Minister of Industry and Trade to process a rapid analysis for the need for my opinion. From the analysis that we received, the new tariff system would increase the electricity payment at 1.9 million, almost 2 million. households. Which is 38%. This means, as the proposal was presented, 38 percent of households would increase the price of electricity. An increase in the electricity charge would affect all households with a low consumption tariff and 44 percent of households with a normal consumption tariff today. The purely technical approach to the new tariff structure that this proposal presented was indeed a technical approach which did not take into account any social aspects at all. After all, it is not possible for the state to address the social problem that will create a new tariff structure by having to compensate citizens for these costs. I think that the proposal was wrong from this point of view, and it is good that the ERÚ was finally hiding the proposal and that a new proposal would be prepared. I just want to say that the current tariff structure needs a change due to technological changes in electricity. The government didn't make up the changes. The changes didn't even start with the current government because it's been here for two years. These changes are simply part of technological changes within the energy sector. This means that there is a gradual transition to decentralised models with all the related consequences for the management of the whole system. But in my opinion, what we need is to take into account the gradual changes in the tariff structure, depending on the rate of change that occurs in the energy sector. This means that we must justly divide the newly created costs. There's no way that, as it was in that canceled proposal, a new tariff structure would distribute money from the poorer to the richer. This means that the new system would affect the poorest in particular. That's the kind of thing anyone who's met the proposal had to say no to. We met him, I met him personally, I requested an analysis of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and based on this analysis I published my negative opinion on this proposal as presented. I think we need an analysis of the adequacy of the impact on low-energy consumer groups when the new tariff structure is coming up. What was the main problem of the proposal is that there was a completely low weight of the variable component price. That means the proposal absolutely didn't motivate savings. And here I think it was the main weakness, and I hope the new proposal doesn't look like that. [[A Member of the Gardener is reporting for the floor.]] .
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u13	Please, Member, if you're interested in a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You, Prime Minister, should have considered before you passed the law. That is where the strengthening of the tariff significance of the circuit breakers appears and where it is anchored. And then you should have, if that was the case, so you should have predicted that this would happen, and you should have motivated the Ministry significantly to set conditions in its competence that would not so burden the citizens of the Czech Republic. But my question really is, and you haven't said anything about whether you're really ready to take responsibility for what happened. Do you really understand that this whole thing was created in my opinion by a failure in the government bill that caused all this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u15	Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u16	First of all, honourable Members, no law, no law, no government concept defines what tariff policy should look like. The tariff policy is about how people pay for electricity consumption, how much their consumption weighs. This means what a variable component is, that is what you can influence as a consumer, to what extent you use electricity. And then there's a solid file that you're already paying for today. The problem with the proposal, which he published and prepared by the ERÚ, was that the weight of the solid component increased dramatically. This means that the consumer's ability to influence what is paying for electricity by his behaviour, for example through his austerity behaviour, has decreased dramatically. I think it was a very comfortable suggestion. And I was watching, and I'm glad that Mrs. Vitásková provided me with the information in a letter she sent me recently that I saw how the working groups that prepared the proposal were composed. [[14.50 hours]] When I looked at the composition, there were mainly electricity producers represented, there were mainly electricity distributors represented, there were representatives of large companies represented, but I did not find a single representative of small customers. I didn't find a single representative of the consumer or household associations. There was just absolutely no voice of small consumers, and that's why the proposal turned out like this. Those who prepared it have made the situation absolutely simple. They have transferred the maximum price weight to a fixed component, which is of course beneficial especially for distribution companies, but it is absolutely disadvantageous for consumers with low consumption and for those who are used to influencing the price by acting austerity and saving electricity consumption. So all I can do is welcome the fact that the ERÚ has been hiding the proposal, and I think it is necessary for a new proposal to be prepared, and it should therefore be introduced according to today's information by Mrs Vitásková since 2019.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u17	Thank you. Please Mr Petr Fiala and Mr Zdeněk Syblík will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, I appeal to you as a person who is responsible for the entire government and who is responsible for the individual members of the government. As one of the objectives of your government's programming statement, your government has set a non-negotiable fight against all forms of corruption and serious economic crime, and in addition, the chapter of the Ministry of Finance states that - I quote: "The government will prevent abuse and circumvention of tax regulations." I assume that the Minister of Finance is responsible for these objectives, and he also states, as one of his objectives, the settlement of the business environment. A few days ago, as we know, the European Anti-Fraud Office, OLAF, launched an official investigation into the subsidy for the construction of the so-called The stork's nest. Andrej Babiš, in a television documentary, said it was the best project he had ever come up with. Well, of course, I believe that inventing a project that you can mainly figure out how to circumvent regulations so that you can get a grant of $50 million, that is really something that the finance minister could praise himself for. But I don't think he was supposed to praise himself. Furthermore, I would point out that the information on the initiation of the investigation is not entirely trivial, because if OLAF initiates an official investigation, it is only after a preparatory phase is underway to determine the relevance of the information, or to carry out the detection missions to the country concerned, and only on the basis of that information, if they are sufficiently serious, the Director-General will decide that it is being investigated. And that's what happened in that case. Prime Minister, I ask you how the citizens of this country can trust the aims of your government in the fight against serious crime, in the fight against circumvention of tax regulations, when companies of your first Vice-President are either charged - Agrotec, or investigated for deliberate fraud in the use of European subsidies. Do you mind, Prime Minister? Is that what you're dealing with? Are you doing something about it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u19	Thank you. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u20	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, above all, as is known from public sources, this matter is being investigated by the Police of the Czech Republic. That is, there is a police inquiry into the case that concerns Chapi's hnízdo and the provision of a European subsidy. According to the information published in recent days, this issue is also being investigated by the European Commission's authority. And I think what's important to us is that there really is a consistent independent investigation of the matter. I think it is not even appropriate for the Prime Minister to comment on this investigation, simply because it could be perceived in any way in relation to the course of the investigation. So I insist that the matter be thoroughly investigated independently in the competence of the authorities in charge, whether it be the police and the prosecutor's office on the part of the Czech Republic, OLAF on the part of the European Union. If there are any concrete results, concrete conclusions, then, on the basis of these concrete conclusions, the person involved in this matter should act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u21	Does the Member wish to ask an additional question? Please, you have room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u22	Prime Minister, it would sound credible if you weren't the leader of the opposition before, and you weren't doing anything completely different in that opposition. "Here is the presumption of politicians' guilt, if anyone is suspected, investigated, charged, should resign immediately, and only when it is proven that nothing has been done can he return to his duties" - these are the things you have declared here when you were in opposition. It seems to me that when you were in opposition, you showed a lot more courage, political courage than you are now acting as Prime Minister, who is responsible for the various ministers. Here we have a clear problem not only a permanent conflict of interest, which is also unforgivable and which you also tolerate, but also suspicions, accusations, investigations, these are things that distrust the position of Finance Minister, but not only the position of Finance Minister, discredit your entire government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u23	Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u24	I think, honourable Members, that these events, or the case described here by Mr Fiala, are the things that took place before the government took office. These are things that are in no way related to the activities of the Government of the Czech Republic. What is there is, of course, a matter directly affecting business activities, directly or indirectly the business activities of the Minister of Finance and Vice-President of the Government. But I stress again, these are things that took place before the current government's mandate began, and I do not want to replace the police investigation here, I do not want to replace the investigation by the European Union, and I also do not want to jump ahead or perhaps draw any conclusions that have not yet been drawn. I think it is necessary to wait for the outcome of the police investigation, for the outcome of the prosecutor's procedure, because as far as I know, there are no concrete results yet, which would be known in the media. And as far as the question of the European Union's investigation is concerned, even here, in my opinion, it is necessary to wait until there are concrete conclusions. At this point we are moving in the level of suspicion, at this point we are moving in the plane of speculation. This is, of course, a matter which may also be the subject of political debate here in the intercessions, but from the point of view of my progress as Prime Minister, and from the point of view of my action as President of Social Democracy, I would like to base myself on facts, and I would like to base on findings that will either be verified by the police or by the prosecutors, or will be verified by the institutions of the European Union, which also conducts independent investigations of the whole matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u25	We are going to continue with the interpelling, this is Mr Syblík's interpelling, and Mr Petr Bendl will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Even though the subject has already been discussed here, I still dare to raise my question. Dear Prime Minister, the Energy Regulatory Authority has prepared a new tariff structure in electricity. These tariffs should lead to an increase in the costs of small consumers, such as small households, often mentioned lodgers or pensioners, who are now saving electricity in the interests of savings. I take the view that there should be no redistribution of funds from poor to rich, from economical households to large consumers through energy charges. I believe that the new billing system, along with pensioners, chalets and cottages, will also damage those households that are seeking low energy consumption. Their motivation may not always be merely to spare, but also to be environmentally considerate. High flat-rate spending is to be paid by households regardless of how much energy they consume, including a marginal situation where they do not take off any energy. It doesn't make sense to save electricity. Prime Minister, I would like to ask you what the attitude of you and your government on this proposal is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u27	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u28	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, I think I can follow up on one of the previous interventions in response to the Member's interpellation. I have already described the impacts that we have identified in the proposal for a new tariff structure, as submitted by the Energy Regulatory Authority. I think it is worth recalling that, in fact, already today, state financial assistance under social policy is helping citizens to pay for electricity costs. It is actually addressed by social benefits that are provided in the area of housing. And already the largest share of housing costs is spent by family home owners in small municipalities. This means that even now the most vulnerable groups are the ones that the Energy Regulatory Authority has proposed the biggest increase in tariffs. How would that turn out? It would have turned out that tariffs would have been raised. These people, who already largely now meet the rights to social housing benefits, would actually be paid by the State by means of social housing benefits even more financial than they are now paying. I think it is a mistake that there was no representative of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in that working group, because the proposal, as originally prepared by the ERÚ, would actually make electricity more expensive for those who are already in a particular poverty trap and which we are already largely helping social benefits today. So it would lead to a wide range of people who would be entitled to social benefits and would increase the cost of the state budget. I think it is clear that the analysis of the MIT also confirmed that, in general, retirement households, whether old-age or disabled, and especially the households of one pensioner, would be the group most affected by the change in annual payments, as originally proposed by the Energy Regulatory Authority. Annual payments would increase by up to CZK 3,466 according to the analysis. I think that's a thing that really wasn't acceptable. I think it is a good thing that the proposal was published sufficiently in advance that it was possible to apply these arguments. And it is a good thing that the Energy Regulatory Authority has abandoned this proposal and that it will prepare a new proposal. I would very much like there to be a wider discussion, which would include representatives of consumers and would include representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, for example. I think it also needs to be said that we need a gradual process that will be spread over a longer period of time, and we need a process that will ensure that 38 percent of households are not there, which will increase the price of electricity by switching to new tariffs. In my opinion, the proposal was not sufficiently understandable for a large part of the public. This proposal would have a significant impact on households with low electricity consumption in particular. And this proposal would dramatically reduce the incentive to save energy consumption. So all we have to do here is call for a new debate that will prevent the preparation of a new proposal by the Energy Regulatory Authority to be more extensive in order to include an aspect of the social impact on individual groups of households, so that the debate is not only oriented technologically in terms of changes that occur in the networks, so that it is not only motivated economically, that is, in terms of how to spread the costs of connecting smaller resources to the energy network, but that debate must also be oriented socially so that people can bear it and that there is no further and more cost to our social system, so that it does not further increase the demands for payment of social benefits.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u29	I will ask the honourable Member if he wishes to speak again. Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u30	I should only make such a point on this subject. You know, if it also goes to the payment system in the future according to the amount or strength of the circuit breaker, I just want to point out that, of course, it will indirectly force consumers to secure or exchange the circuit breaker for weaker ones, for lower ones to pay the lower rate. And in this context, I just want to point out that, of course, energy plants or distribution plants will also have to pay nicely for the exchange of circuit breakers, which will burden households, especially the weaker ones, the pensioners and others. I just want to point that out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u31	The Prime Minister does not wish to respond. In that case, please, Mr Petr Bendl. Mr. Josef Nykl will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u32	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, colleagues, the Chamber of Deputies now has a conflict of interest on its agenda. In this law, we want individual representatives of all municipalities and towns and regions to publish their property ratios, how much money they have, what valuable objects they have at their disposal, or if they are indebted, what personal obligations they have, etc. I have to say, especially in small villages, this is going to be such a game of envy, or games to tell anyone who has what, regardless of the fact that it has taken on absolutely honestly, but in advance we make them almost suspects. On the other hand, imagine that I am - let me not be personal to anyone else - that I, for example, am the Minister of Agriculture, have a company that I 100% own. I get 50 million subsidies, I owe 150 million to someone. My company's liabilities are CZK 250 million. And this kind of confession doesn't appear under this law in my data I'm obliged to publish. I'm asking you, Prime Minister, why didn't you include such a thing in the bill? Because I think it's far more important than the fact that the last representative in a small village has to say what valuable items he has at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u33	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u34	Thank you. Madam, honourable Members, the proposal put forward by the Government aims to harmonise the existing law on conflicts of interest in a certain way. It aims to tighten up some of the provisions of this law and, at the same time, aims to simplify access to information that the relevant public authorities regularly submit under the current law. I think from a voter's point of view, from a citizen's point of view, it will certainly be more reasonable if it is possible to obtain information that is submitted on the basis of a conflict of interest law at one Internet address. A single register will be created here, where this information will be collected. I just want to point out that a number of non-profit organizations and a number of anti-corruption organisations have been demanding for many years that such a reform of the conflict of interest law should take place. As regards the regulation of other potential conflicts of interest, I must say that the government has reached agreement on such a proposal. If the Chamber of Deputies finds that there are still some special areas of conflict of interest that need to be tightened further, for example, in the area of government membership's business, that means introducing some new rules, I am not against it. Let us be inspired by experience from other countries of the European Union. Let us look for laws that will help us separate business from politics, because, of course, it is not possible for political representation given by the will of the electorate to be combined and business interests that are simply given personal gain. So I have no problem here in this House openly discussing how to possibly regulate the government's draft law on conflict of interest. I would merely intercede for us to accept the proposal. [[15.10 hours]] I think that the conflict of interest has been changed for many years only by partial amendments. I think it was not entirely happy, and I think that we need a comprehensive regulation that will modernize the bill, and the Czech Republic will be among the countries that are most transparent in terms of property ratios and income ratios of public officials. We have a second reading of this bill. I am ready after all the amendments are tabled to discuss how best to improve the law and how best to avoid conflicts of public and private interest, including situations where private interest takes the form of a particular business or ownership in equity companies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u35	Thank you. I will ask the Member if he wishes to ask a question. Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u36	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, I just wanted to point out that we're measuring a double standard. We invent as strict criteria as possible on the representatives of individual cities and municipalities, but in the case of many times more funds, in the event that some of the government officials may be in business, then we do nothing about it. We had a debate on this at the meeting of the Public Administration Committee. Minister Dienstbier, I must say he has shown no great interest in dealing with this situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u37	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u38	Thank you. I don't think we should take different subways. I agree with you on that. And what I can say is that we have a second reading of the bill. I support that the law, as the government has put it, should be passed, and I do not prevent us from debating, possibly approving amendments that will prevent it from being measured by a different subway. Yes, let us approve the proposal in a form that is balanced and fair to everyone. And I agree that the principle of increasing strictness with the importance of public office is appropriate. That's right. And, of course, strict criteria must be applied to the highest constitutional officials, including those of the government, and if they are stricter than those of city and community representatives, I think that is also not wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u39	Thank you and please Mr Josef Nekl, Mrs Věra Kovářová will prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister, I am addressing you with a question that is bothering many of our fellow citizens. This is the unwillingness and laxity of dealing with accidents at work and compensation for loss of earnings. Most of those who worked honestly for their employers have been injured in their work with lasting consequences, and the employer wants to get out of responsibility for this. I recently saw a TV show about it, and I encountered the same problem in my constituency. The employee of a private company operating in the field of repair of construction railway vehicles suffered a work accident on 5 January 2010 on the basis of which he was operated on the second day. Even at the time of his illness, he was fired from his job, but the employer was forced to take it back. Repeatedly resigned in 2013, when the staff member was not offered adequate replacement work. During that period, the staff member shall not be paid or paid dues for it. The district court ruled in favour of the employee. The employee then requested compensation for lost earnings, which to date amounts to more than CZK 550 000. And the game begins again. In October 2015, the Regional Court discussed the appeal of the company against the payroll compensation judgment, on 22 January 2016, the District Court sets up a judicial expert in the field of medical examiners in order to prepare a new expert opinion on the health status of the employee within eight weeks. Due to the current course, the employee and his family live under poor economic conditions. Perhaps a very specific example, but it can be generalized because it is certainly not the only one. That is why I ask you, Prime Minister, what legal environment is set in favour of the needy. Why is the matter quite clear for the sixth year? Does the government think that the next settlement of these claims will be taken over by the Social Security Administration? After the interventions at the Ministry of Justice - it cannot influence independent courts to speed up negotiations and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs does not have the means to remedy them. There is a need to find a way to protect a disabled employee legally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u42	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the current system, as it has worked in the Czech Republic in recent years. The decision whether or not an accident at work is made by the employer concerned. In the event that the employee disagrees with how the employer assessed the accident that occurred to him, the court decides. In the event that the employee disagrees with the employer, he may bring an action before the court. In case the employer recognizes the accident at work, his compensation will be paid. The system currently looks like the compensation is paid either by Česká pojišťovna or Kooperativa, depending on who the employer is insured with. In some cases, these insurance companies do not want to recognise an accident at work, although they are not authorised to do so. This system has been often criticised in recent years. Unfortunately, it has not yet been possible for this system to be clearly defined for the next period. We started a debate about this within the government coalition. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs prepared analytical material, where it proposed several options for possible development of the accident insurance system in the Czech Republic. Finally, on the basis of this material, the government decided that the system of compensation for accidents at work and occupational diseases should go to the Czech Social Security Administration. At present, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has the task of preparing a proposal for specific legislation and this legislation will then be submitted to Parliament. So I can confirm that on the basis of debates and considerations, the government has the aim of gradually preparing the transition of payouts and the administration of compensation for accidents at work and occupational diseases to the CSSS, which is a state organization in the gesture of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Naturally, I do not know the particular case mentioned by the Member, and if I had the opportunity to get to know them, I would probably be able to say more about the reasons why the matter lasts so long. In the past, we have been debating whether it would be worthwhile in an area which concerns labour disputes or disputes relating to the rights of employees to employers, to have special judicial chambers working here, which would also deal with issues of labour law or claims arising from accidents at work, but this idea has not yet been enforced. That means we have a general court system here. And what citizens rightly often criticize is the way in which the general courts today decide.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u43	Thank you. The Member shall have the opportunity to ask a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u44	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. You can see that some ice will move. It is probably due to the fact that the employer always has some greater leverage and the courts are throwing it over ping-pong because the court acknowledged, he appealed, the court acknowledged, he appealed. I don't think we can figure that out right now. But I'm sure I'll take advantage of your offer and process a certain report in cooperation with the victim and his union organization, and then I'll pass it on to you and maybe we'll find a way out together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u45	Thank you. The Prime Minister does not wish to speak. I beg Mrs Věra Kovářová and Mr Ivan Adamec will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u46	Dear Prime Minister, allow me to address you with an interview on rural depopulation. I consider this phenomenon, its qualitative and quantitative dimension to be serious, and I think it is necessary to confront it. Some of the steps of this government are causing me concern about whether my opinion is shared by the government. Whether it was a reduction in the number of financial offices that was dealt with last summer, an unsolved lack of doctors in rural areas or, for example, a recent failure to draw 14 billion. to accelerate the Internet connection, which would help the rural areas in the first place. All these problems certainly do not help people to want to stay in the countryside. Of course it's a mistake. [[15.20 hours]] Prime Minister, I call on you to ensure that first of all, non-conceptionary steps such as a reduction in the number of financial offices are not taken. Secondly, to address the problems that have long been affecting the rural population, such as the lack of doctors. Third, to make maximum use of the possibility of strengthening the countryside economically, such as by expanding fast Internet access. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u47	Thank you and please the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u48	Mr President, honourable Members, I myself grew up in the countryside, so I can perceive very carefully and I must say very carefully all the steps that may lead to the deterioration of the conditions for living in the countryside. I must say that I did not agree with the fact that, in the past, any reform of the state administration which did not respect the natural error and did not respect the structure of self-government in our country. I am a long-standing supporter of at least three-way cities to ensure that all the basic contact points relating to the state administration's activities work. We have, of course, reformed the state administration, abolished the district authorities, established the regions, we have a separate model of performance of the state administration, virtually. we have a merged model of performance of state administration at the level of troika municipalities, lower municipalities at the level of regions. And I think that in terms of, for example, the structure of the financial authorities, the employment authorities, that is, these are the institutions with which citizens come into contact most in the field, so basically those last articles in the territory should copy the structure of the so-called troika communities. That is why I did not like the intention to abolish the financial authorities, because this has already interfered with this structure, and I am glad that we have at least agreed on a certain compromise, when contact points for dealing with the most common tax problems should be maintained in those places where the financial authorities have worked. But it's not just the state administration structure. What affects rural life is also the quality of roads, second and third-class roads. And here I am so glad that we have managed to make a qualitative change that, for the first time in many years, the government isn't just leaving repairs to twos and threes and bridges on these roads on the budgets of the regions to which it has passed. We have to admit that the infrastructure was already very neglected at the edge, because in the 1990s, there were no investments in 2s and 3s and bridge repairs. And I'm glad that we've actually managed to find 7.5 billion crowns in the last two years, which will go in addition to fixing twos and threes. And when you looked around the Czech Republic last year and looked in your regions, in your municipalities and cities, construction works have really intensified on these roads of lower classes. I would like the government to continue this policy. But in two years, almost 7.5 billion crowns that go into twos and threes. Another thing related to the quality of life in the countryside is the branch network of Czech Post. I also want to thank Parliament here because I think that together we have managed to set up a method of payment of losses for the Czech Post. That wasn't here in the past either. Thanks to the new method of payment of losses for the Czech Post, Czech Post can afford to stop canceling branches and has much more time to transform branches within the Posta Partner system, but municipalities are not forced to do so. Which I think is important. This means the post office will not cancel the branches, and if the branches will transform, then only in agreement with the respective municipality. Which, I think, is also an important change from the past. Next thing you know, it's a traffic service. It is within the competence of the regions and municipalities today, but the government contributes to the transport service. And here I think that we need to achieve, in particular, in the field of rail transport, that it will extend or close a new memorandum between regions and municipalities, between state and region, in order to ensure transport service on rail in the future. What is important for rural life is also the availability of health care. I think that's the biggest problem we're facing right now. Aging specialists, aging outpatient doctors in the country. I asked the Minister of Health to deal with insurance companies. I asked him to create a program of grant support for doctors in those districts that have failed to occupy in the long term. I think that both insurance companies and the Ministry of Health should contribute financially and help those doctors who decide to practice in these districts. So once again ensuring available health care is also very important. And it's not just outpatient doctors and specialists in rural districts, but it's also a matter of keeping county hospitals. Because the idea of some health reformers that we can actually afford to cancel district hospitals, that the care should actually be concentrated here from the point of view of the Czech Republic, so it is again something that can impair the quality of life in the countryside. [[Attention to compliance with time]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u49	Thank you, Prime Minister. I ask the lady of the house to ask a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u50	Thank you. I would like to comment on the financial authorities where you claim to have found a compromise. Compromise such that municipalities must provide space for employees of financial offices. And I ask, then, who pays the rent and the operation of such rooms? As for the Czech Post, it is a repeated song over and over again. And you're right, municipalities must also bear the cost of this problem. I'm asking you again about health care. I noticed on TV, now I don't know if it was an expression of a health insurance company, that lack of doctors is a matter of municipalities. Well, I can't agree with that, please. Prime Minister, if you could comment. And the last of my vouchers is on the Internet and the drawdown of 14 billion, if you could already say a schedule if you have a plan that is necessary for drawing, available. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u51	Thank you, and the Prime Minister will respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u52	Thank you. If there was such a statement by a health insurance company, I must say that I do not agree with it. Of course, municipalities can create certain conditions for a doctor to work with them. Many municipalities do that, too. In particular, those municipalities, which may not have privatized the clinics, but rather invest in those clinics, bear from their investment costs and, of course, allow rentals which are at a reasonable price precisely to maintain a certain structure of specialists directly in the territory and in the district. So municipalities can't change that. They can create somewhat more favourable conditions, for example, if they contribute to investment. It can also happen, and there are also municipalities that are trying to contribute to the acquisition of new instrument technology, which may be used by more doctors in that territory in a coordinated manner. But what I think is important is that we set up a motivational system within the Ministry of Health and Insurance, more support for practices that choose to operate in territories that we have not been able to occupy in the long term. It can't be a matter of municipalities, it can be a matter of the state. And what we need, as well as the important support for Parliament, the government has prepared a reform of the education of doctors, which should make the system more efficient and partly shorter. And here I hope that we will also be able to agree in Parliament on the reform of education in order to support, from this point of view, that there will also be more doctors for the service and work in the countryside. With regard to national plans for the development of new generation networks, I must say that it is probably the most closely monitored national plan of all the national plans that the government has been preparing so far. The deadline is clear. This plan must be submitted by the Minister of Industry by the end of the first half of this year. This term cannot be postponed, this term cannot be exceeded, it is a fundamental task for the Minister of Industry to submit this document to the Government by the end of the first half. I hope that then the government will be able to approve it and that it will be able to run the relevant subsidy programme. [[Attention to compliance with time]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u53	Thank you. I beg Mr Ivan Adamec and Mr Tomio Okamura will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u54	Thank you. Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I will start with another case. For the second time, I've been performing here with an interview on Law No. 39/2015 Coll., Act on the So-called Act EIA. You weren't in my last interview, but you sent me a large letter with which I can agree. However, the situation has shifted. And since this really is a serious problem, I would like to ask how the negotiations with the European institutions have progressed. If there is any positive result for the Czech Republic. Because if I had the right information, then actually the EIA, which was accepted before the Czech Republic joined the European Union, it applies there, virtually. Even the EIA, before we adopted this amendment, concerns about 63 buildings in the range of CZK 170 billion, which is not a negligible state investment. I wonder what stage this is at right now. I also heard the opinion that since we had the EIA processed so long ago, why it wasn't built. I think it belongs in another case, of course. However, there is no point in going back to the situations why it was prepared, it was not built, it would be built today, but the problem is that the EIA is simply a serious obstacle. So I ask how the negotiations in Brussels have progressed and whether we can expect any optimistic solutions. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u55	Thank you. The Prime Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u56	Undoubtedly, honourable Members, the problem of assessing the impact on the environment and the state of legislation in the Czech Republic in this regard and the state of the buildings in the Czech Republic in this respect is probably one of the most serious problems the government is solving. He's not dealing with it now. He's been dealing with it for the last two years. When we came to the government, we were confronted with the situation. I have personally been confronted with the situation that they have told us from the European Commission that they will stop us drawing European funds because we do not comply with the relevant legislation. So we had two options at that point: either we had the opportunity to look for an agreement, or we had the opportunity to stop drawing funds from all the buildings for which the EIA is needed, which would mean that last year we wouldn't have exhausted the funds that we used up because it just wouldn't have made it. The government has decided pragmatically. We thought that the tens of billions of crowns that we could exhaust to modernize our economy, for the Czech Republic, are worth looking for an agreement. We found the deal. We've exhausted the money from the old funds. Finally, a law that is harmonised with European Union law has been passed. This happened in 2015. So for the first time, after many years of debates, the Czech Republic has a harmonised environmental impact assessment law with a date of 2015. At the same time, we know that we have about a hundred buildings here - a hundred buildings - which has EIA, which was still under the law that was in force here before joining the European Union, and those buildings have not been built in the 12-15 years. I have to say that it was interesting for me to find out when I was looking at what it looks like in the European Union, and we asked if anyone has a problem similar to that of the Czech Republic - no one else has such a huge problem. I think it points not only to the problem with the EIA, that it shows how the conditions for investment construction are set here, how the rules for construction of line construction are set here. I think a number of us feel that there's a serious problem here, and the EIA has reminded us again. We've got hundreds of buildings here. They have old permits before joining the European Union. And no one else in Europe is in a situation like the Czech Republic. So we're in an absolutely exceptional position, and at the same time we're in a position to speed up the construction of transport infrastructure. Many of these buildings, which have an old EIA, have been able to prepare them for construction in 15 years. Somewhere the land is bought out, somewhere there's a building permit on the way that could be issued, but it can't be issued because we have an old EIA. So we're dealing with the problem now. We are currently trying to find an agreement with the European Commission. The Ministry of the Environment, in particular the Ministry of Transport, has been negotiating with the structure of the European Commission for a long time. In recent weeks, I have started negotiations to support this initiative as far as possible from the position of Prime Minister, and I am trying to create a system where at least part of these structures can be put into a regime where the EIA is verified, where there will be no need to do a new EIA on these buildings, and we will be here in agreement with the relevant Commissioner or the relevant Directorate-General of the European Union for the Environment. It's not an easy situation. It cannot be said at the moment if we can create such an accelerated system. In any case, the Czech Republic is asking for this. The Czech Republic uses all possibilities to put such a system together, but it will not mean an accelerated verification for all 100 buildings. For most of these buildings, we're going to have to go through a new EIA. But then, of course, it is also a question for the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Transport, in order to maximize all deadlines and to deal with this matter as intensively as possible. As I was informed by the Minister of Transport, at the beginning of this year the Ministry of Transport has already entered the EIA for these constructions, which means the preparation for the new EIA takes place so that we do not waste time. And we are trying to make a compromise with the European Commission so that it does not have to be a completely new EIA and only a verification by the Ministry of the Environment is sufficient. We need to find a consensus, because if we don't find it, we won't be able to use European subsidies on these buildings and we'll have to finance them from national sources. But it's not even certain that we'll be able to complete the process successfully. And the last point - it would also be good for environmental initiatives to take into account the fact that we need to complete the backbone road network in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u57	Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u58	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I was a little amused by the last sentence about environmental activities, because I'm not sure there's a real way of making a deal, because they have other priorities, and I'm not gonna tell them here so I don't happen to get into any conflict. So I see it there very, very, very, I would say, with such caution, it's probably going to be a big problem. As far as building preparation is concerned, I agree with you that this is probably not the case in Europe. However, it must also be said that a number of advanced European states that were in the European Union before we, the original fifteens, the spinal motorways and the roads had been built de facto far earlier, were ahead of us, and at that time I think that such an EIA law also did not apply there, because I cannot imagine that they would be able to build that many kilometers of motorways. So thank you for your answer and I wish you every success, because the roads aren't right or left, the roads are for all of us, and without motorways and without capacity roads, the economy just won't go forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u59	Thank you. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u60	Thank you. I think the same thing the Member mentioned here. Because if the EIA were to pay consistently, probably countries like France, Germany would not have such an extensive motorway network, and they would not even have a network of rapid trains, because I cannot imagine how effectively they would be able to build such transport infrastructure. So I think that one big task that lies before the government, and I, of course, thank you for the support, because it is a common interest of the whole Czech Republic, is to solve the problem of the EIA, a permit that was issued before joining the European Union. At least try to achieve a faster regime for part of these buildings so that we can start them this year, next year, and then, of course, adjust the rules, adjust the legislation. We'll get another chance to do that. The window will open. The government is preparing an amendment to the construction law. He'll come to Parliament. And within the open window, we should try again to enforce reasonable rules for construction in the Czech Republic so that, if possible, the period in which we are able to build anything at all. And when I was talking about the environmental initiatives, I think it goes without saying that environmental protection is significant. We certainly want the environment to be preserved for our children and grandchildren in order to protect both fauna and flora. But I think we also have to take care of people's health. And if we look at the structure of that hundred buildings, a large part of it is the city bypass. That means there's traffic today, including heavy truck traffic, all exhalation through municipalities and cities. We've got dozens of transport projects in place that mean bypasses. This means that the people who live there will breathe cleaner air, will not be so burdened by the noise that comes from this transport - and we cannot implement these buildings because we do not have an actual assessment of the environmental impact. So this is a really big conflict of interest. And I would like to call on real environmental initiatives to take this into account as well. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u61	Thank you and please Mr Tomio Okamura and Mrs Helena Langšádlová will prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u62	Dear Prime Minister, as part of the current election campaign, you and your ČSSD have teamed up with Kalouskův TOP 09 in the attack on your coalition partner by law, which should limit the possible risks arising from the conflict of interests of a member of the government, who is also an entrepreneur. You know that your proposal deliberately doesn't solve anything systemically, because only a naive fool might think that by transferring the company to someone else for the duration of his office in the government, the owner might lose influence on his company. That is why I ask you: What really prevents you from quitting your long-term populism and supporting really systemic changes that will actually prevent the abuse of the powers of politicians? What prevents you from supporting or proposing a law that establishes the direct personal and criminal liability of all those who manage public funds, i.e. a law that provides for prime ministers and governors to manage the property entrusted with the care of a proper economy, as they already have, for example, today. Mayors? As I have already said, the bill of your friends from the TOP 09 does not solve anything in practice. If anyone wants to manipulate public property and rob citizens, then your law doesn't prevent it. It's just your populist charade to fool an uninformed citizen. Answer me: Why, then, do you really resist making policies directly responsible for the money and property they manage? Why did you refuse when I proposed this same legal obligation as the mayors already have today for ministers and captains? Let me just remind you that your MPs voted against the ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL. Prime Minister, are you worried about a direct charge in the case of OKD, in which you snatched the undervalued price from citizens and then cost both money and thousands of mining families for housing?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u63	Thank you and please the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u64	Thank you. I think we know that the situation is completely different from that described here by the Member. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the government has tabled a draft law on conflicts of interest. This is a coalition proposal, this is not a proposal that only social democracy would put forward, on which all three coalition parties agreed, and there is a draft law on conflict of interest. Parliamentary amendments are tabled to this bill. And I, as Prime Minister, cannot influence what kind of parliamentary proposal the Member or the Member shall make, that is their business. And Mr Okamura here anticipates a vote that has not yet taken place and will take place. And it will take place, and everyone will have to stand up to the proposal and those proposals that will be made, according to their best knowledge and conscience, as well as the programme that he represents and was elected here to Parliament. We are trying to tighten up the conflict of interest law, we are trying to provide citizens with more information about the proportion of people representing them in public positions. We want citizens to have easier access to this information through the registry that is proposed. These are changes which, in my view, meet the demands for a more transparent policy environment. And if there are proposals that will continue to help separate politics from business, I think that's the right way to go. Today, we are in a situation where people who have engaged in business in recent years have large assets, have large companies, come into politics today, gain constitutional functions, a senator's office, or maybe a member of the government, and this situation needs to be taken into account from the point of view of ensuring public interest and avoiding conflicts of interest. Such things have not happened in recent years, these laws do not count on it, or logically, when the environment changes, the political environment changes, so the laws need to be adjusted, changed, the laws tightened up. And that is not the question of an agreement between two political parties. For a law to be enforced in this House, at least three political parties must always agree, perhaps four, to obtain the necessary majority here and be approved. So it's not a matter of one person's or an individual's decision. We will all be voting here and examining the individual proposals that will be put forward for the conflict of interest law. I think politics must be controlled. Politics must be controlled by citizens, politicians must be controlled by the media. At the moment when political, economic and media power is linked, there is no more control in democracy. So I intercede for real media power to separate from the political power to separate economic power from the political power so that there is no direct exercise of business functions, management functions in business companies, and, of course, for our legislation to respond to these things that have taken place. That's the point. As far as criminal liability is concerned, I think everyone has criminal responsibility on the basis of the existing laws that are here, and they need to assess whether anyone has a responsibility. That's not what Mr Okamura's here to judge, but that's what the courts are for, that's what the police are for, that's what the D.A. is for. And I'm following up on the interpellation that was on me in the case of the Tea Nest, just as it was mentioned here. Even there, the police have to decide, and they have to decide the state's attorney's office.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u65	Thank you. I ask the Member for an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u66	Dear Prime Minister, I'm talking about the cart and you're talking about the goat. You are saying that citizens are supposed to have control of politics, and when I proposed here a law on a general referendum that would allow democratically to vote on all issues, and a hundred thousand-dollar vote to call for a referendum, you rejected it. I also suggested the direct choice and rebuttal of mayors, mayors and captains, once again you rejected it. Even in your proposal for a referendum, you explicitly wrote that there is no vote on the appeal. So please don't make this up. You don't really want a democracy. And you haven't answered my question at all. I asked what's the difference between the mayor's responsibility, who already have so-called today. the care of the proper caretaker, and the council, and what is therefore different from the Minister and the Governor. Do you feel that your party elites are inconvenient compared to the mayors? And if you want the citizens to control, let us consider the rebuttal of politicians and their care a proper economy and a really broad referendum. So don't say things here other than what you actually do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u67	The Prime Minister does not want a response. In that case, please Mrs Helena Langšádlová and get ready, I think we'll be able to make it, colleague Černý.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u68	Dear Prime Minister, on 20 November 2015, the Government issued a resolution on the state integration programme for persons with international protection in 2016 and the following years. Together with this resolution, he also published an analysis of the current situation in the area of the integration of foreigners in the Czech Republic. I consider it essential that those who often come from completely different religious-cultural civilization areas of the world should get acquainted with our legal order, history, and practices and values in which our society is anchored as soon as possible. In this context, I find a great lack in the document that there is no indication of how the information on these areas will be transmitted, either in part of education or through integration courses, both of which are very important for the adoption of such values. In my opinion, integration programmes should be mandatory. Integration policy also aims at the participation of foreigners in public life. This will not be achieved successfully without knowledge of the legal order, history, customs and values of the Czech Republic. And it is very likely that if we are not consistent in the integration area that I have mentioned, this could bring us many problems in the future as a society. I would like to point out the lack of the document already mentioned and ask for information on how knowledge of the legal order, history, customs and values of the Czech Republic will be achieved in the context of the integration of foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u69	Thank you and please the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u70	Thank you. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to respond to this interpelation. It actually concerns a new element on which the government has agreed and which we have decided to improve - the issue of integration of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic within the framework of the state integration programme. The Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, in accordance with the Government's resolution on the State Integration Programme, prepares a public contract to provide training courses in the field of culture and democracy for persons with international protection with a subsidy of 20 hours. This will therefore be organised following the course of the Czech language. The content of the course is a fundamental orientation on the formation and development of democratic knowledge and attitudes, respect for human rights and freedoms, understanding of the rules, rules and laws for the functioning of society and the education of a responsible member of society. The topics will be specified by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports in the award of a public contract. I assume that this clarification will therefore cover the form of teaching how this information will be transmitted. However, I am glad that we have come to the conclusion that, in addition to standard Czech teaching, we are trying to pass on information and knowledge of this nature. The state integration programme needs to be seen as a whole. It is an instrument to help people with international protection at the beginning of their lives in the Czech Republic. It therefore concerns the area of language training, entry into the labour market, housing, education of children and adults. In various forms, there has been a program in our country for almost 20 years. Its last modification has been effective since 1 January of this year, when the so-called General Provider of Integration Services was established. For 2016 he is the general provider of Charity of the Czech Republic. As regards the integration of foreigners from third countries, the conclusions of the proposed material The updated concept of integration of foreigners in mutual respect must be taken into account. If foreigners remain in the territory of the Czech Republic for a long time, efforts to integrate them cannot continue to be based solely on the principle of volunteering. We are trying to establish legal obligations in this regard, and perhaps this will require a change of law, some of the obligations associated with the completion of these courses. The aim is also to increase the required knowledge of the Czech language for permanent residence from level A1 to level A2 and to determine the obligation for newcomers to complete initial adaptation and integration courses. The government does not prevent us from taking the form of a legislative obligation to complete key basic courses that help to integrate foreigners here in our country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u71	Thank you. Please, ma'am.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u72	Thank you, Prime Minister. I really think this part of the integration programme is mandatory. If someone learns the Czech language in a different form than in integration programs, I understand that. But this part, which concerns our cultural and value anchoring, the knowledge of our legal order, is to be mandatory. I ask that it be evaluated whether the subsidy you referred to is only 20 hours, is sufficient and whether the content fully corresponds to whether it will be possible to integrate foreigners, who can often come from completely different areas and whose integration is not so simple even for those who have the will. It is certainly very important that those who come into individual communities of communities, parishes, civil society should be able to become a real part of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u73	Thank you. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u74	I would only react very briefly. Because I remember it very vividly, and now I remember it one more time, the debate that we had on this subject in the government. It's a new thing, a new program for a new tender. The lady mentioned that it was 20 hours. It doesn't seem to be much. I agree, because when people come from a completely culturally and religiously different environment, 20 hours is not much. But I am glad that, even on the basis of a difficult debate in the government, we have managed to push through this and that funds have been found for this, because it has not been easy at all. At times, funds are much easier to secure security measures than to ensure integration. I think that we should pay equal attention to both security measures and integration. I agree that it is necessary to run the system and after a certain period to evaluate whether the subsidy of 20 hours is okay or not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u75	Thank you. I beg Mr Karel Černý, who will probably be the last to intercede to the Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, one of the problems that our government is dealing with is the decline in our mining and the associated maintenance of employment in the regions concerned. In the mid-1990s, Klausův' government decided to end uranium mining in Lower Corner. The repeal of this decision by the following minority government of ČSSD meant not only finding new reserves of uranium ore in this locality, but also preventing 20% unemployment in the vicinity of Bystřice nad Pernštejn and Nové Město na Moravě and maintaining employment in this area for almost two decades. Uran ore reserves are now being extracted and more than 400 employees working in the underground are in danger of losing their jobs. Dear Prime Minister, the Rožná mine is a mine owned by the state. I know that the government is aware of the seriousness of the situation that both the Minister of Industry and you personally deal with the representatives of the authorities. What further steps are being taken, particularly in cooperation with the mayors of cities and municipalities, in relation to the maintenance of employment in Bystřicka and Novoměstsk, by the government? And how do you intend to implement them?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u77	Thank you. I ask the Prime Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u78	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that the Government is paying long-term attention to the issue of ending uranium mining in Lower Corner. It is a topic that we started to deal with as early as December 2014. At that time, the government approved the continuation of uranium mining and treatment on the bearing In the absence of a claim for State financial resources, such mining will continue until 2017. According to all the information and evidence available to the government, it was found that the continuation of the extraction would not be economically viable. Mining reserves of uranium in the mine In fact, the roast has been gradually exhausted in recent decades. The global uranium prices decreased significantly mainly as a result of the accident of the Fukushima nuclear power plant in 2011, which resulted in a shift of a number of major economies from nuclear energy and an increasing overhang of the supply of uranium over demand. These are simply factors that the government could not directly influence, but which led to the fact that profitability of further mining is no longer there. As Prime Minister, in December 2014, I asked Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek and also Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová to prepare a restructuring plan for Lower Rožínka's territory and end of uranium mining in 2017. In order to fulfil this task, a working group was established, including representatives of these ministries, also the Vysočina Region, the CzechInvest Business Support Agency, the state enterprise DIAMO and the mayors from the region concerned. The conclusion of the restructuring plan showed that if no active state approach was implemented related to the further use of the Rožná bearing, some 478 employees, mining workers at the Rožná plant and about 43 workers at the Chemical Treatment plant will be released after the winding-up of the underground mine. The total would therefore be about 521 employees. The government's aim is to minimise the number of vacant workers, possibly to prepare replacement employment offers for them. So we want to focus on three areas. The first is a bill that allows miners in deep mines to retire prematurely. This bill will not only apply to miners in deep mines in northern Moravia, but it will also touch miners who have sold out the necessary number of years at Dolní Rožínka. That's one thing. [[16.00 hours]] Second thing. The government approved the continuation of the construction and preparation of the operation of the underground research site Bukov. This is an activity that could employ around 150 of current mining workers after 2018. At the same time, the government also approved financial support for the preparation and construction of the internal infrastructure of the industrial zone Bystřice nad Pernštejn, with this industrial zone contributing to the creation of new jobs within this microregion. This means that Bystřice nad Pernštejnem will receive specific financial support to expand, improve infrastructure in the industrial zone. At the same time, the acquisition of a particular investor in this region is one of the priorities of CzechInvest, which means that CzechInvest is actively involved in negotiations conducted by Bystřice nad Pernštejn, and is trying to support investors' considerations about investing in this region. It is not quite easy to create new jobs on Bystřicka and Novoměstsko, because the complication here is the transport infrastructure, a certain distance that is here from the highway. And the government's goal is to help us maximize the acquisition of new investors.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good afternoon, ma'am and gentlemen. This calls for an end to the Prime Minister's intervention. 16 o'clock is over. Therefore, I will no longer give my colleague Černý a chance to complete the supplementary question and the Prime Minister's possible reply. Allow me, before I begin an interview with the members of the government, to add my apologies. As of 5:30 p.m., Minister of Transport Dan Ťok apologizes for his work. Mr Roman Procházka apologizes further from 14.30 to the end of the working day. Minister Zaorálek apologizes from 17 o'clock for work reasons, and Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes for working reasons for the afternoon meeting. There is also an excuse for Mr Martin Kolovratník from 14:30 to 18:00, and from 16:00 Mr Šarapatka. We will continue to interpel on the members of the government. The first question is Mr Augustin Karel Andrle Sylor, who intersects Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u80	Dear absent minister, according to my information, there is a breach of contractual relations by the Ministry of Defence in the ammunition warehouse in Čermná nad Orlicí. Until 2014, the electronic security system in the Ministry of Defence was managed by Trade FIDES, a joint-stock company. This service, together with the termination of the contract with this company, has ceased without compensation, and access to this security system today basically depends only on the good will of the lessor and is not legally treated. The Ministry's lax procedure in the conclusion of new contractual relations has also caused that the security of the premises you have taken over does not theoretically have a legitimate access to its essential part and basically depends on the benefit of the landlord. According to my information, dozens of black buildings were built in the premises without any of the responsible officials responding to repeated warnings from the landlord and landowner. To date it can be stated that the sublease agreement conditional on operation and others resulting from the report to the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic is not only in line with the applicable legislation, but also means a potential danger to the surrounding area. Dear Minister, I would like to ask you, through an interpellation, whether the Ministry is planning to remedy this situation or at what time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u81	Thank you. Minister Martin Stropnický is excused from today's meeting. You'll have your answer in writing within 30 days, Mr. Ambassador. Another interviewer is Mr. Jiří Valenta, who intersects Mr. Transport Minister Dan Ťok. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, in the fourth quarter of last year there was milling and a new laying of the abrasive layer on half of the D5 on the I/27 road in the direction from Pilsen to Přeštice. From the point of view of many drivers, the condition before the repair was better than after the reconstruction itself. The higher quality of the original road condition is best illustrated by the unadjusted half in the opposite direction. The Plzeň Region, which I am also a representative of, has very limited means of repairing and reconstruction of the second and third class roads, and is therefore always obliged to consider carefully how they will be incurred. Analogic optics on the efficiency of management generally force us to consider the repair to be a completely inappropriate and pointless waste of state resources, even now provided from the budget of the Road and Motorway Directorate. At least in my opinion, these could be used more effectively to eliminate the real damage to the roads of the first class in the Pilsen Region. Dear Minister, I beg you to give a qualified answer to the following questions. One. For what reason did the said correction take place? Two. Has the quality of the work done been evaluated properly and with what results? And three. According to what criteria are first class communications objectively suitable for repair? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u83	Thank you, Mr Valent. Minister Dan Ťok has five minutes to respond. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the inspections carried out by the administration of the motorway highway Directorate, the Plzeň administration, it was necessary to cover more cracks on the abrasive layer in 2014 and 2015 and to correct the discharges. For this reason, the administrator commissioned the diagnosis of asphalt layers on the I/27 feeder in the section of the D5 motorway and communication III/18040 including the measurement of anti-skid properties, also in connection with the planned conversion of the work of this section into roads for motor vehicles. According to the conclusions of the assessment, the road had the following defects: longitudinal and transverse cracks, older discharges, in places deep corrosion, loss of asphalt sealant, mosaic cracks in km 142,2, tracks driven in the right lane. According to the 2010 census, the total intensity of 17 402 vehicles is 24 hours, of which 2,431 heavy goods vehicles per day. In this situation, therefore, it is not possible to wait for malfunctions to be registered when passing at a speed of over 100 kilometers. During the early removal of the failures, water penetration was prevented, the life expectancy of the asphalt circuit and the track removal and the surface roughening increased by road safety. Unrealization of the timely repair risks further deterioration of the technical condition of the road and a reduction in the safety of road users. The delay would result in a deterioration in the state of communication and the spending of other funds. For illustration: one meter of the said repair costs CZK 490 per square metre, the expected repair over the period of two to three years by replacing the abrasive and bedding layer costs CZK 812 per square metre without remediation and by the fact that the closing time would also be three times the closing time. The second question I will answer is that the works performed are according to visual inspection according to the result of the inspection measurements in accordance with the specifications with the quality system of transport constructions, as well as the control and test plan. And the last question you ask about the criteria for selecting first-class communications objectively suitable for repair. The selection and planning of road repairs of class I is based on the state of construction found during the inspection of roads according to Decree No. 104/1997 Coll. and always supplemented by an assessment of the diagnosis of an independent accredited laboratory. [[16.10 hours]] I would add in the remaining time that, of course, we know what the situation of the regions with the roads of the second and third classes is, and that is why this year we have also agreed to add three billion regions and about 150 million to the capital city of Prague to the most necessary repairs relating to these types of roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u85	Thank you to Minister Dan Ťok. I'm asking if... yes, a colleague... not reporting, so there will be no supplementary question, and in that case we continue to interpel Mr Petr Bendl to Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. Mr Bendl has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, Minister, drought is a major problem in the Czech Republic. Nevertheless, I have registered the interest of the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture to build a number of new dams in the Czech Republic. The dam is a solution that is irreversible from the perspective of landscape and nature. The moment there's a flood of land, it can't be undone, basically. Therefore, I think it would be worth considering that each such solution should possibly also have an alternative solution. To find ways to keep water in the landscape, for example, by restoring ponds, or helping to build new ones, or returning to the recovery of cops, or other series of measures that can be taken. For example, improve the flow of rivers and so on and so on. A study of the Vltava basin, which concerns the river Berounka, appeared in the alternative solution - one of the variants is a 46-meter high dam, which would raise the water of the river in case of flooding up to Liblin, which would mean flooding a significant part of the territory of the river Berounka and the territory of the towns and villages along the river. I want to ask you whether there are such alternative solutions, whether you have been concerned about something like this and how seriously it is to build a dam on Berounka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u87	Please, the Minister of Agriculture will respond to the interpellation. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u88	Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr President, dear colleagues. Mr Bendle, Mr President, on the overall issue of drought and water management in the Czech Republic, we are trying to look for really all possible options that would contribute to the issue of water retention in the Czech Republic, because no major water flow is coming to us. In the Czech Republic, virtually all water flows drain and drain water from the Czech Republic. However, we are trying to move really from those measures relating to farming on agricultural and forestry land. Here we are looking for ways to motivate farmers, how to set rules for farmers to adhere to the principles of good agricultural practice, in order to ensure greater rotation of crops in the rotational process, so that we do not take measures that increase soil absorption capacity to support, among other things, the quality of the land with sufficient organic matter, whether from sources of plant production and also from sources of animal production, support of livestock production as such in the Czech Republic. We're also looking for solutions, let's say, a level higher. And these are still the solutions that concern the cadastral so that we can restore the landscape to the original character, the original function in all respects. When we talk about water, it's water retention not only in the soil itself, but with various measures thanks to the wetland, thanks to the draw, thanks to the limits, but also thanks to the construction of small ponds, really about the size of several hundreds of square meters, up to maybe several hectares. We also combine measures relating to flood control measures so that it can also play the role of water retention in the countryside. We are trying to implement all of these measures in the context of land adjustments. We significantly increase the dynamics of land adjustments compared to the previous period and by increasing the budget. For the last time, as part of the Rural Development Programme, we are strengthening this area. However, we get to an area where we know from the predictions that scientists here call us from Mendel University, and within the Intersucho portal, anyone who sits here and has access to the Internet can look up these outputs, and we also work with a projection that provides a view of the next twenty, twenty-five years, when we know that in the last 130 years, the average temperature in the Czech Republic has increased by one degree. There's a view that the temperature will continue to rise. There's a view that the collisions won't be evenly spread out like we've been used to in the last 30 years, that we're getting these extreme rainfall tides. At this point, we're in a situation where all these nature-related measures have certain limits. And if we have this experience from last year, just a month, but also a longer period of time, even five, even six weeks, there is virtually no collision sum, all nature's close measures will not help us at that time. They will not help us to secure the water we need for drinking water sources in some localities, they will not help us to provide water for agriculture, for irrigation, and they will not help us to provide water that we also need as a utility for households and industry. So we try very sensitively to the instrument of considering water cannons and the construction of dams in the Czech Republic. We are now leading a very minimalist variant, where we have identified locations where - first, we need a certain accumulation water source, we need some waterworks, so that the locality is one where there is no dramatic intervention in the area that is inhabited, where we would have to evict some larger parts of the municipalities, where only the real estate is still very rarely inhabited. We are also looking at the environmental impact it will have on the environment. And now, last week or this week, the government decided to launch a feasibility study in four locations. That from the whole water cannon generator, which has been here for decades in the Czech Republic, where there are 65 locations that have been in this generator since 1902, we have pulled out four that we want to examine as far as possible in the feasibility study. And those four are Lachovice, Pěnčín and two tanks of Senomata near Šanov within the Central Bohemia Region. So what you were talking about, that's not the plan. There is no such dam in the prospect of the next few years that we would like to address this variant. At this point, we're talking about these four. It is in the realization of the water tank Heřminova, which was for you, and today we are talking about the water work Skalička, where we want to re-evaluate the use of only dry cop also for the accumulation function. So, really, the dams are just the final cut of these measures, and they're definitely not the main solution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u89	Mr Bendl is applying for an additional question, and the Minister will then be able to complete his reply. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u90	Thank you for the floor. I realize, Minister, that the project, the original, and everyone has its specifics. However, the Berounce, where there is a study, which the Vltava basin has already introduced to the municipalities. This is not at the stage that no one knew about it, only in the area of the Ministry of Agriculture was theoretically thinking about something like this, but there is a study presented by the Vltava basin to individual municipalities. The study relates to a dam tank or a retention tank, therefore not a dam that would maintain water permanently, but a dam that would stop water in the event of flooding. And what I'm interested in is whether a study has been done to keep the water alive before it gets to that Berounka so that we don't have to build a dam like this at all. [[The President draws attention to the time]] . Rather, they have taken measures - I will be short - to prevent the damage caused by the floods in a way other than that proposed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u91	Please, the Minister will complete his reply to the supplementary question. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u92	Each measure, and especially when it comes to flood control measures, is treated with variants that try to find their way mainly through nature close to measures before we start building some constructions before we start putting concrete somewhere and building some solid barriers within the landscape. However, in this case, it is highly likely that it can be mostly a flood control measure within the framework that it should be a dry cop, and here, of course, the question that the water catchment areas and the municipalities concerned will be able to find a match, because we as undertakings of the water catchment area, and you know it yourself well, we are not the ones who walk and say here you would... here you have to take a flood control measure. We are the ones who are more or less telling where the flood areas are, and it is mainly in cities and municipalities, whether they themselves will want to realize their flood protection. So it's never like we're forcing our flood protection somewhere. This is a matter of voluntary decision by cities and municipalities in the region, if they agree to such a measure. But I must say that this is certainly not the current issue that we would now have as a priority for the Ministry of Agriculture in the area of drought and realization, the preparation of the implementation of some waterworks in the Czech Republic at this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u93	Thank you to the Minister and we will continue to interpel, it is the interpellation of Mr Zdeněk Ondráček to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues. As you know, Minister, I am only interested in what is happening in Ukraine because I have a number of friends and friends there, and thanks to that I have enough information from this country. I am quite familiar with the political and security situation in Kiev and other major cities of Central and Western Ukraine, I follow developments in the southeast of Ukraine and I know about the struggles between the regular Ukrainian army and the battalion fighters Ajdar with the real sector of Azov, which have already claimed dozens of dead, namely the town of Mariupol. I also know that there is a meeting of foreign ministers in Paris today. Normandy Fours, which will continue to deal with developments in Ukraine. You know I do not speak diplomatically about Ukraine today, but I am not alone. Criticism comes from many countries of the European Union, France, Italy and Austria at random. I will ask you, Minister, to let us know more or less in front of the Members here what you have information about the current military situation in the southeast of Ukraine and what we and the European Union say about this development. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u95	Thank you for your time on the question, and the Foreign Minister has five minutes to answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u96	Thank you. I'll just point out that I really need more than five minutes to answer those questions. But I'll try. Perhaps the outlines of what would be close to an answer can be handled in those five minutes. Briefly. In the conflict zone the situation has deteriorated since November 2015, the number of incidents in that line of contact has increased with heavy technology. I'm talking about Luhanska and Donetsk. Both parties today are accusing themselves of moving combat technology to places from where it should have been withdrawn. The free movement of international observers is also limited, and it is true that both sides of the conflict restrict it. Most incidents occur in the Donetsk region, most incidents are initiated by separatists. I think we can prove that from what we have at our disposal. There is direct and indirect evidence that Russia is supporting both material and personnelly the separatist struggle in eastern Ukraine with the Ukrainian Government. I don't have much time, so I'm gonna tell you, when you're here to describe your picture of how it looks in Ukraine, I'd like to quote the biblical one: shame on the one from whom temptation comes. He's got 99 times more guilt for the evil. That means you can talk about what's going on on on the Ukrainian side today, but it's important to remember that there was someone who really is the cause of the situation, and they carry, I would say biblically, many times more guilt on the dead, say nine thousand dead, which I have roughly, and there is a vast majority of civilians among them. And there's evidence that the Separatists' forces from heavy weapons fired on the Ukrainian armed forces and the inhabited areas. Then, of course, it can be assumed that the civilian casualties are significant. So I wouldn't agree with that, with your description, I think it's misleading. Security threats on both sides are armed groups, that's true. Their autonomy is growing and it can be said that they are out of control on both sides. It's just reality. But I keep saying - let's keep in mind who caused the situation. The possibility of reintegration of these separatist areas is decreasing every day. Unfortunately, that's how you have to judge it. According to the International Red Cross, the intensity of the fighting has reached, as they officially say, the intensity of the national armed conflict. Such conflict is subject to international humanitarian law standards governing the use of armed forces and the protection of civilians. According to the Geneva Conventions, representatives of the International Red Cross must be given access to those places of struggle. The fighting activity in the east of Ukraine was, I said, also conducted in inhabited areas and yet the penetration there is often very difficult. Amnesty International accuses both sides of the conflict of violations of international humanitarian law, including arbitrary detention, kidnapping and torture. However, unlike the separatists, the Ukrainian government has asked the International Criminal Court to investigate these charges. Only the Ukrainian party did that. Although Ukraine is not a Contracting Party to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, in accordance with the Rome Statute it has adopted the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court and the applicant of the International Criminal Court has decided to open a preliminary investigation into the situation in Ukraine which deals with alleged war crimes committed on Ukrainian territory between 21 November 2013 and today. So far, separatists are obstructing the access of representatives of the International Committee of the Red Cross to detention, thereby violating the Geneva Conventions. Those are the facts. As far as the negotiations are concerned, the Minsk Agreement. Minsk agreements - it has been decided to extend their implementation until the end of this year. The package of measures for the implementation of the Minsk agreements was, in my opinion, agreed against Kiev. Ukrainian sovereignty, territorial unity and the integrity of borders are not regarded as natural rights but as the subject of negotiation. That's why I'm saying the Minsk agreements have been negotiated against Kiev. Today, Russia is pushing the Ukrainian government to implement the political part of the Minsk agreements, and this would enable the legalization of the pro-Russian separatist elites within the Ukrainian political system and ensure their impunity. This would create an enclave where the influence of Ukrainian institutions would be weakened and Russia's continued influence maintained. On the contrary, Russia is clearly in no hurry to implement the military part of the agreements. It retains control over the situation and the possibility to manage the conflict as necessary. You said there's a Norman-style meeting going on in Paris today, that's absolutely accurate information. What do you expect? Probably proposals to stabilise the security situation and the local election modality agreement. There are many problems.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u97	Minister, I'm sorry, five minutes have passed. My colleague Ondráček will certainly ask an additional question and you will have two more minutes to answer. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u98	Of course, thank you, Mr President. Well, Minister, of course you didn't surprise me. I know how you're looking for your information, but you can see that you can get information as such from the Czech Republic, you can get it from serious media, like foreign media, you can get it somewhere in the marketplace or under chestnuts. But then there's also information and knowledge that's gained by personal knowledge, and that's just not transferable. Allow me, Minister, to present this White Book to you here, it is the White Paper on the genocide of the Ukrainian army, which it carried out on the inhabitants of the Donetsk region in 2014 and 2015. If I may ask you to take over, it's in the envelope. If you ever have a taste, get acquainted with what is happening in the locality, then perhaps you will have a slightly different opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u99	Mr. Ambassador, one minute's up. Minister, you have two minutes. Don't you want an answer? [[No.]] You have materials at your disposal. We will continue to interpel Mrs Anna Putnová to the Vice-President of the Government of Mr Pavel Bělobrádek. Please, madam, you have the floor to your interpellation. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u100	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Vice Prime Minister, when you entered the position of Vice Prime Minister for Science, Research and Innovation, you had the reputation of an honorable man. This reputation suffered greatly during the election of the candidate for the President of the Czech Technical Agency. According to the press, this choice bore many elements of the complexion. I'm going to quote some information, and if you think it's not true, I'm going to ask you to disprove it. The Council of the Government announced a call for nomination for members of the TA Czech Presidency in mid-January 2016. The deadline for submitting proposals was up to 10. 2. The proposal could be submitted by natural and legal persons engaged in research, development and innovation. 5. 2. the deadline for submitting proposals has been extended to 15. 2nd, without giving any reason. The members of the Board did not, in their own opinion, receive complete documentation for the selection. It was not clear who and with what recommendation proposed individual candidates, and they had only CVs and some concept of the development of the Agency. When Mr Pavel Komárek received eight votes in the election, the same number of votes as Mrs Bízková, the chairman leaned on the side of one of them, namely Mr Pavel Komárek, who was elected, and thus he did not run for President, so Petr Očko, the second candidate became an automatic candidate for President. On the question of journalists at the press conference, Mr. Petr Očko said that it was proposed by the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises. If this is the case, there is uncertainty as to whether it has been proposed by the authorised appellants. You asked the Prime Minister to grant an exemption, and the material was not submitted to an inter-ministerial commentary procedure and was also discussed with the government without debate. The members of the board of the TA CR were appointed four times in total. The material has always undergone an inter-ministerial reminder procedure. So my question is, why was the deadline extended by five days? Who was proposed at this time? And why didn't you go standard and give the material to comment on inter-ministerial proceedings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u101	My colleague, I'm tolerating myself today. Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek will answer. Please, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u102	Mr President, fellow Members, I must categorically reject that word as a conspiracy. I have to take a strong stand against that. The procedure was entirely in line with all the negotiating materials which are approved and were completely standard. As regards the extension of the deadline, it was decided by the Bureau of the Council of the Government for Research, Development and Innovation. It was extended so that there would be a chance to give more candidates. I don't see any moral or technical problems. Full documentation - of course we also have a web site. If anyone wanted to request such information, he could have requested it, but the CV and, above all, what it is about is the concept they are presenting. The number of nominations, or who nominates who, is certainly interesting, but this is not a beauty contest and does not win points based on how many of you who run for office. The documentation is public and it was available. I don't know if the board members put her right on the table, I don't remember, but I can find out. Biographies are essential to me and concepts are essential. But what you are saying is not entirely true. In the first round, Mrs Bízková received only six votes, Mr Komárek eight. Then the second round followed, and as is standard for other elections, if no one is elected in the second round, so goes to the third round - the chairman of the RVVI decides. This was necessary when the National Prize was Czech Head, Professor Hilský. Basically, I decided about him, too, because he wasn't even elected there in the second round. It's not standard, it happens all the time. The exception from the inter-department was simple. I believe it's a personnel choice. It's on the proposal of the RVVI and I'm not sure we put it in the interdepartment at the Czech Head, I don't know. It is only a matter of time, so that we can approve the new Chairman of the TA Czech Republic as soon as possible, with the fact that the inter-department could write what? It's not very clear to me. It's a nomination approved by the Council of the Government under the law, and what do you want to contradict there? I'm not entirely sure. According to my background, everything was normal. As for Mr. Oček's nomination, it was entirely in line with the challenge. This means that a natural and legal person dealing with science and research could be nominated. In the competence law is the Ministry of Industry, pursuant to § 13 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (f) engaged in industrial research. I don't see any problem with that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u103	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. My colleague has an additional question. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u104	Just a little comment. The Ministry of Industry is an organizational branch of the state. For another - I am surprised by your cynicism, with which you pass the number of nominations that individual members have had. It's a certain arrogance to which you speak to those organizations, and there were dozens nominated by Mrs. Bízková. So you're making it clear that you despise the opinions of that research institution that you've made so much promise to yourself. And one more follow-up question. That is, when you questioned the inter-ministerial procedure, which in the past has always been standard: Who was appointed in the extended term of five days from February 10th to the 15th? And then another thing I can't forgive myself for. Compared to the Czech head, I don't think it's appropriate here. It's more like a beauty contest for the Czech Head. This is the choice of a man to run a research institution for many years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u105	The Deputy Prime Minister will answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u106	I'm not a lawyer, but the organizational branch of the state isn't a legal person? I think so. But I'm not a lawyer. I believe so. As for the number, it's not an expression of arrogance. I'm just saying, that's not why you choose someone to do it. The choice was a secret. And only by creating a situation where there was an equalisation of votes, when no one was elected in the second round to the Bureau, so the President decided. If it were a secret choice, there wouldn't be a debate. It is not my fault that no one else has received an absolute number of votes in the Bureau. So I don't see anything in this. And the other thing. It is necessary to be aware, and this has also been said at the Government's Council rather unhappy that all the institutions that supported Mrs Bízková are beneficiaries. So even some of them were quite defying it that it wasn't kosher. I think it's okay that the suggestion might be. But if we compete in how many institutions he proposes, then there doesn't have to be a secret choice, and let's just do it according to how it goes. Who was designed in the extension, I don't know exactly. I'm sure it was Mr. Očko. I don't know if there were any more. But there was one support after the deadline even. So at least one came after the deadline, which means it wasn't the only nomination.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u107	Thank you, Minister. Interpelation is over. We continue by intersecting Mr Adolf Beznoska to the duly excused Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová, so the colleague will receive a written reply. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u108	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I have an interview with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the home office. It's a job from home. I very much welcomed, about six months ago, when the Minister said that this opportunity to work from home has found its position, because it allows for better work and family life in some cases, it also has undisputed advantages for employers, and that there is no need to regulate this activity. All the more so was my surprise when I learned a few days or weeks ago that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs had prepared and perhaps already in inter-ministerial commentary management material that would regulate this activity, virtually. It would lay down precise requirements for companies to stand up to the work at home and to provide all the employees who do the work at home. From the original good reaction, it changed 100 degrees, and my question is simple. What led you, Madam Secretary, to change your mind? And I would like to specify what the conditions in the material are for companies that will regulate work at home. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u109	I thank Mr Adolf Beznosk. The reply will therefore take place within the time limit laid down in the Rules of Procedure. Interpelation over. And now another interview for the absent Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mrs Pastuchová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u110	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, Senate press was discussed in the Senate yesterday under J 038/10, Proposal for a Council Recommendation on the inclusion of long-term unemployed persons in the labour market. This proposal contains recommendations that should help Member States reduce the number of long-term unemployed. The report and the summary of the government's position indicate directly that the government considers the solution to long-term unemployment to be one of the key priorities of employment policy. That is why I ask why the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs does not urge the discussion of the Parliamentary press 156 on material distress and the proposal for a public service. This House Press recommended the Organising Committee to discuss 7. 5. 2014. The first reading was 9. 12. 2014. The Social Policy Committee discussed it three times. He interrupted twice, the last meeting was 20. 4. 2015. Some solutions have been offered for a long time, but unfortunately it is a parked year and three quarters and waiting for discussion. I ask the Minister to comment on whether the public service considers one way to deal with long-term unemployment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Pastuchová. As in the previous interpelation, you will receive an answer within 30 days in writing. I'm ending this interpelation. We will continue with Mr Ladislav Oklešťek, who has an interview with the present Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I was lucky enough to have the minister present, so I'll allow myself to interpel. Dear Minister, as you well know, about a year ago, the Ministry of the Environment introduced a decree which had for its content a ban on buying, cash buyout during the purchase of metals. This measure caused a large wave of reactions. As one of the reactions were e.g. complaints from entrepreneurs that their revenues will decrease significantly, that they will be liquidated for them. For these reasons, I would like to ask you if you have evaluated any of this effect at all. If you have any result, from what was the impact for both cities and municipalities, and for the buyers' sector itself. How satisfied you are at all and whether you intend to further develop this act, or whether you will just stay with the cash-free buyout, or you will move on. If you give me enough information, I'll be satisfied, and if you don't, I'll continue my follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u113	I thank Mr Oklešťek. He didn't even last two minutes. I'm sure Minister Brabec is ready. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u114	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for your question, honourable Member, through Mr President. I'd start with a few dry ones, but I mean interesting numbers. You know that the decree was really the subject of big debates, both media and otherwise, with the entire professional public. We were attacked many times that it wouldn't work anyway, that it wouldn't have any effect, that the infractions or thieves would still go around the decree and just find ways. But I dare say that the number speaks as it is known, and the statistics speak best. As the classic says, the statistics are boring, but it has valuable data, and so let's compare years, because we can already talk about annual experience. Overview of crimes and damage caused, source of Police of the Czech Republic. Between 2014 March and December, 9335 crimes caused by damage occurred in the area of metal purchase. Between March and December 2015, i.e. at the time of the cash-free decree, 4095 crimes occurred in this area caused by the damage 208 462 thousand. Now, I haven't counted it to a percentage, but I'm not too close to saying that there's been a reduction in crimes by almost 60 or about 60 percent. Year-on-year, then. And just for the sake of interest, in 2016, we know so far we have statistics for January, there has only been a question in the Czech Republic, although of course it is always a question of quotes, whether it is just, or still a lot, 316 criminal offences, while in January 2014 it was 1247 criminal offences. So there really was a 75 percent decrease in the number of crimes compared to 2014. And in 2015 in January it was 790 and now 316. So we see that the decline is clearly continuing and the decree is therefore successful. We have spoken with a number of representatives of cities and municipalities. Almost everyone praises the decree that the number of thefts fell significantly, those socially dangerous ones where canals were stolen, gutters were stolen, a lot of things were stolen on the tracks, in the Road and Motorway Directorate, and the number of thefts dropped dramatically. And what's interesting is that, of course, the number or volume of purchases in a series of collections fell, although not in all, somewhere that drop was dramatic, somewhere it was smaller, some collections even said that they didn't actually feel any decline. We were most afraid that the volume would fall, but the number of the thefts would remain, or almost remain, which would mean that the circumvention is actually taking place. But it turns out here that the volume of the buy-out went down in volume, or it went down a little bit as much as the number of the thefts. In other words, I dare to conclude that in a number of cases, the collections really bought stolen goods that were the subject of crime, and I think we have hit the sector very sensitively, although of course many entrepreneurs on that line today. But I believe that the benefit is more important from the point of view of the decline in crime. [[16.50 hours]] We have prepared another measure in the new Waste Act, which will soon go to the House for discussion. There, of course, we will leave the existing successful, let's say, attributes, including only a transfer from an account to an account or through a voucher, and we also want to extend it to the obligation to monitor the equipment's premises by a camera system with three years of surveillance and on request to provide this record to the inspection authorities. The same system has been in operation since 1 January this year in Slovakia. It would therefore work for us from 1 January 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u115	Minister, Mr Okleštěk has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u116	Thank you, Minister, for the statistics you presented to us. So I perceive that the theft has diminished, because no one has fallen into the canal of this decree in our village for a long time. That's the signal that those canal bars are definitely still there. I just have you guys to worry about -- I believe the drop in the collections or the collections that were buying out in quotes probably stolen goods, so they did it unconsciously, so we understand that. And I still have a question for you because I hear the pressure from the Union of Cities and Cities that they'd like us to do a full ban on the purchase of individuals. And I'm interested in the ministry's attitude on how this would be treated. Because it's also a measure that can be somewhat controversial, because there's more to the village waste from the reconstruction of family houses and so on. On the other hand, this would prevent the possible remainder of the theft. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u117	Please, the Minister has two minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u118	Thank you. That will be very brief. We are consistent, we remain in the view that a total ban on purchases from individuals would, in our view, be at the very limit of possible constitutionality, but above all, or in addition, we would be the only country in the EU that has something similar. Secondly or thirdly, we would, in our view, be affected by a very broad group of people who have legal iron waste, iron scrap at home and could not essentially legally dispose of it for money, which I think would be completely unfair. We believe that the current decree combined, let us say, with tightening up what should be the content of the new law, as in similar countries, in comparable countries, for example in Slovakia and elsewhere, will bring further reductions in the crime, so there will be no need to resort to any extreme measures that would actually spill the baby with the bathtub. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u119	I thank the Minister and I can no longer give the floor to my colleague Okleštěk because the procedure under the Rules of Procedure has been exhausted and you must personally be with the Minister. Mr Ludvík Hovorka, who intersects the absent Mr Svatopluk Němeček, is speaking. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u120	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, you have not answered the following questions in your written reply to my interview of 21 January on health registers: Why is it necessary to send all sensitive data, such as psychological, urological, sexual problems, abortions, in short, everything in the medical documentation, including the birth number, to one place, and how will these data help to address the quality, availability, safety, care, optimization of the network of providers? Where is it determined what the status of the technical operator of the system and its staff and the associated protection of sensitive data will be? How will individual sensitive data be particularly legally protected from abuse? How will persons allowing access to registries be required to assess the proportionality of the provision of personal data? How will each patient have access to all data to be processed? Why is the health information system not governed by the same strict rules as other basic registers? Why are existing data from health insurance companies not used to manage the economy? Why is all information on health, social and working history to be linked exclusively to birth numbers? Why is it now necessary to quickly and rapidly approve the defective House press 614, link all databases and then prepare a quality law? Do you not think that in the case of NZIS, the exact same regime as for other registers under the Basic Registers Act must be separated by an agenda and data management? The Basic Registers Act specifies the definitions of the registry, the scope of the data collected, the links between the agendas, the data access log, the agenda administrator and, inter alia, the record keeping of events related to the operation of the registries. It must be obvious who, when, what and for what purpose he did in the register. Unfortunately, this is completely missing in the Houses of Press 614 and the reference to the explanatory report is not enough. I therefore ask repeatedly for a direct answer to all the questions asked and at the same time for a communication on the final form of the database created and who, specifically, works for commercial pharmaceutical research in the UHIS or UHIS. Thank you and I hope you will answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u121	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. The answer will be in writing within 30 days and you will probably be more satisfied, Mr Member, because it will be exhausting, whereas in five minutes these questions will probably not be answered. We continue by intersecting Mr Milan Šarapatka to the absent Minister Milan Chovanec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u122	Good evening, thank you for the floor, Mr President. Since Minister Chovanec is not present, I will be very brief and ask him for a more extensive answer. A few days ago, Minister, there was a connection between the Dawn movement and the Bloc against Islam. Since this is basically the most extremist and xenophobic formation in the Czech Republic, I would like to ask you what is the current situation with the registration of this new movement and whether this is not the reason to initiate proceedings for the abolition of registration of this movement, I mean the Dawn movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u123	Thank you for the clear question. The written answer will certainly be interesting. I'm ending this interpelation. We continue with the eleventh interpelation, by interpelling Mrs Pavla Golasowská against also the duly excused Minister of Industry and Trade Mládek. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm submitting an interview to the absent minister, Jan Mládek. I'll say hello to him from a distance, at least. It concerns imports of Chinese steel and the related risk of unemployment in metallurgical plants. The threat of imports of cheap steel from China threatens the labour market in the Czech Republic and also in Europe as a whole. In the Moravian-Silesian region, cheap steel imports from China could endanger up to 15,000 jobs in metallurgical enterprises and up to 45,000 jobs in connection with related services to the metallurgical industry. Imports of dumped Chinese goods would thus endanger the Czech, eventually European steel industry and could consequently completely destroy it. Dear Minister, I have these questions for you. First, how is the Czech Republic actively involved in the decision to grant market economy status to China? What specific steps does he take? Secondly, what prevents China from applying the same market rules as we do, including environmental aspects? And thirdly, if the steel industry in the Czech Republic is destroyed, are you ready for the huge unemployment that will arise in the region that feeds the industry? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Golasowská. The reply will be delivered within 30 days under the Rules of Procedure Act. And we can continue with Mrs Jana Fischerová's intervention on the excused Minister Robert Pelikán. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u126	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. So I will turn my words to the absent Minister of Justice Pelikán. Dear Minister, it was on 21 January of this year when it was discussed at the plenary of the House of Interpelations, it was the House press 673, which I submitted. So I was not satisfied with the answer from you, so I am addressing you again today. Because what was answered by your mouth. You agreed to my arguments. In January, you said that the way in which the insolvency proceedings in the Regional Court in Ostrava were awarded was a rather original way. [[17,00 hours]] You also said that you had a problem with this method and that the court didn't testify to the grounds for and any non-transparency. In short, you said at the time that you couldn't run a trial like a company. Furthermore, you have also told the Members that your powers in the area of schedules are virtually none in this area. The only option is a disciplinary action, but you don't think there's a chance of success. But I still want to tell you, Minister, that in the meantime I was visited at my own request by the President of the Regional Court in Ostrava. And since she's given me more evidence to turn to me, I'm going to turn to you again, and I want you to respond anyway. There are possibilities for either strengthening the personnel composition at the Regional Court in Ostrava or the suggestions that have been asked of you by the President. I ask you, Minister, what are you going to do about this? Please specifically. You have the authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u127	The answer will be within 30 days. I think it'll be better than the last one. And we continue by intersecting Mr Zdeněk Soukup to the present Minister of Culture. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, on 26 November, I interviewed you on some of the statements made by representatives of Muslim communities in the Czech Republic. I'll remind you of some. Muneeb Hassan Alrawi, head of Brno Muslims, advises members of his community on how to raise children. I quote: "Your duty at this time is to teach him to love Islam. Teach him to hate the suitcase, the kaffir." Those are the people who reject God. Vladimír Sáňka, President of the Muslim Community in Prague, publicly defends the killing of Israeli civilians by Palestinec. I did and also handed you a literal record of the statements made by the director of the Muslim Union in the Czech Republic by Mohamed Abbas on two television shows. They tend to include the introduction of the Muslim Sharia law for Czech Muslims, most importantly the provisions relating to women are interesting. Minister, you were the one who appealed to the authorities involved in criminal proceedings. However, I would like to point out the responsibility of your ministry, which decides to register churches and such church organizations. Let me quote something out of Section 5 of the Law on Freedom of Vonction and the status of churches, the conditions for obtaining registration. "It cannot be obtained by those who deny or restrict the personal, political rights of individuals for their nationality, gender, race..." and so on. One more quote: "It cannot be obtained by one who stirs up hatred and intolerance, or by one who promotes violence and intolerance. " I believe that is what the statements of senior representatives of the registered headquarters of Muslim communities in the Czech Republic have fulfilled. So did the Ministry of Culture proceed to initiate the withdrawal procedure, as required by Section 22 of the above-mentioned Act?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u129	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time to the question. If you are not satisfied with the answer, then you have another minute. Mr. Culture Minister Daniel Herman has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Member, fellow Members, first of all, I would like to thank you, through Mr President, for your interest in this issue, which is up to date and which needs to be dealt with very seriously, but it is necessary to move within the limits of the law, within the limits of the law. So now I'd like to take a little bit of an excursion into the past. The headquarters of Muslim municipalities was registered by the Ministry of Culture in 2004. All legal conditions, both formal and content, have been fulfilled. The Ministry of Culture also assessed the circumstances relating to the establishment and operation of the Headquarters of Muslim Communities in terms of the provisions of Section 5 of the Law on Churches and Religious Communities, as amended at the time. Part of the registered basic document of the Headquarters of Muslim Communities is a written declaration that its activities do not conflict with the conditions of the establishment and operation of churches and religious societies in the Czech Republic, and a statement that the Headquarters of Muslim Communities as well as all its members and legal entities, which will be proposed for registration under the Act on Churches and Religious Communities or for registration under special legislation, are obliged to fully respect the Constitution of the Czech Republic and comply with the legal order of the Czech Republic. Nor did the other assessments, which were commissioned by the Ministry of Culture in 2014, contain any negative positions that could lead to consideration of the abolition of the registration of the Headquarters of Muslim Communities. Cancellation of registration of church and religious society is the most extreme solution if the registered church and religious society seriously and in considerable intensity or repeatedly violate the conditions of the establishment and operation of churches and religious societies in the Czech Republic. And now I come to the heart of your question and to the answer to it. If anyone has information about serious violations of the rule of law by the Headquarters of Muslim Communities, it is necessary to contact the law enforcement authorities. To date, the Ministry of Culture has not received any incentives from law enforcement authorities which would require the initiation of a cancellation procedure. Of course, the moment we receive such a complaint, we will immediately initiate the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u131	Thank you, Minister Herman. A colleague of the Soukup will complete the questions. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u132	I'll fill in the questions. Minister, I cannot agree with you that there is a need to address law enforcement authorities. The 22th section, which I will show you later, I do not want to quote the whole of it now, clearly states that the Ministry of Culture should initiate proceedings on non-compliance with the basic conditions. As I said, they were not respected. I would mention a certain opinion here, which the Ministry of Culture, not under your leadership, but under the guidance of your former predecessor, has had. It's basically an assessment made by Aleš Pejchal's law firm. He designed a number of conditions into the basic instrument of incorporation, which were essentially not reflected there at all later. Among other things, the headquarters of Muslim communities must clearly distance themselves from polygamy and other Islamic practices. It just doesn't say that specifically. I'm basically not gonna ask any more questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u133	Mr. Ambassador, it's not even possible. You've already spent a minute on the follow-up question. However, the Minister will certainly use his time for two minutes to supplement his positions on this matter if necessary. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u134	Absolutely. Thank you, Mr President. I repeat once the Ministry of Culture, which is not the investigating authority, receives the appropriate complaint, immediately initiates proceedings. I consider this to be very serious and it is necessary for anyone to move within the framework of laws, legal standards of the Czech Republic. There can be no exceptions for anyone. Neither for members of Muslim communities, or the headquarters of Muslim communities. So the moment we receive the initiative, we will immediately initiate the proceedings under the relevant laws.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u135	Thank you, Minister. We will continue with the further interpelling, this time by interpelling Mr. Rom Kostřice to the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u136	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I want to intersect you on the sides of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, specifically with regard to the second and third-class road repair. I am aware that the Ministry you managed successfully drew money from European Union funds, when invoicing of CZK 26 billion was made in December 2015 alone, thus creating a reserve of CZK 3 billion, which should go from the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, which was not originally expected to do. I would like to ask you how the distribution of this money between individual regions will be carried out fairly. I'm just reminding you that the state has transferred 40,000 kilometers of roads to the border mostly in the second and third grade. Of these 40,000 kilometers, there are 4,000 kilometers in the South Moravian region, which is one tenth. For this reason, I believe that a reciprocal part of this reserve should therefore be allocated to the South Moravian Region from the transport infrastructure fund. [[17.10 hours]] From the meeting of the South Moravian Region Council of 25. 2. It follows that CZK 398 million has been earmarked for repairs to the roads of the South Moravian Region and of which only 239 million have been allocated from the said fund. I therefore want to ask you whether this uneven distribution will be compensated in any way due to the exceptional traffic complications on the roads of the South Moravian Region in 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u137	I thank Mr Kostřic and the Minister of Transport is ready to answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u138	Mr President, honourable Members, thanks to the successful drawing of funds under the Operational Programme Transport, respectively. the capacity of the beneficiaries to implement projects, which were largely originally financed from national resources, amounted to a total of CZK 13 billion in the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure's accounts as at 31 December 2015. For this reason, the amount of CZK 3 billion could be allocated in 2016 for financial assistance to regions for reconstruction, modernisation and repair of roads II. and III. Class. The funds have been allocated between regions according to the length of the communications concerned. I can present the split table to you. The following obligations are newly imposed on beneficiaries: publication of closures on the portal of the National Transport Information Centre; the submission of the opinion of the road managers on which the routes are routed to possible collisions of actions financed by the SFDI budget with repairs or reconstructions of such roads; the obligation of the beneficiary to submit a declaration to the Region on the coordination of actions financed by the SFDI budget with other road actions in the region concerned. Furthermore, the beneficiaries were informed of the obligation to use the new logos of the intermediate entity for the Operational Programme Transport 2014 to 2020 and of the new way of informing the SFDI of the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Finance on the holding of evaluation commissions for public contracts and the implementation of actions financed under the new rules. And just so you know, the South Moravian Region has a length of road II. and III. Class on its territory 3 872 km, which is 7.95 percent of the total mileage of roads II. and III. Class. For interest, the region of Central Bohemia has the largest share, which is 17.7 percent, and the second is South Bohemia, which is 11.2 percent. Therefore, the amount of CZK 238 million of CZK 475,000, which goes to the South Moravian Region, is a fair share of the number of roads II. and III. class cares. I'll give you the chart in a copy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u139	Thank you, Minister of Transport Dan Ťok. Mr Kostřica is not interested in an additional question, so we can continue by intersecting Mr Jiří Štětina to Minister Robert Pelikán, who is absent. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u140	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, I appeal to you as an experienced physician in the fields of hygiene, epidemiology, anesthesiology and rescue services with a strong request to investigate the third decision of Judge Michal Ryška on the transport of a newborn child to a medical facility in Brno. I am not involved in this case by any party, but I have to respond to the annoying words of Mrs Zuzana Candigliota, who stated during the discussion that it is necessary to put an end to the medical lobby, and clearly to the family that has sued the medical emergency service in Brno for the procedure of a doctor who, just for your information, has died, possibly even as a result of the stress that has been involved in this case since the very beginning, for six years. So I must tell you, Minister, that the interest of doctors in surgical workplaces, including gynecology and obstetrics, is almost zero in the rescue service today, because young doctors do not want to be bullied, tried and scandalized for treating according to the latest knowledge of science, ethically and with the commitment of their personal conviction and knowledge that their progress is always in favour of the sick, and do not treat according to the wishes of activists and dilettants, and today even under great financial penalties. I therefore ask: Dear Minister, are we going to deal with medical faculties, medical facilities, and care for the sick generally taken over by judges and human rights activists? And the second question is: what is the possibility of replacing judges in cases in general, e.g. Even in Jiří Kajínek's case? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u141	I thank Mr Jiří Štětin for his time on the question. We will now continue to interpel Mr Josef Kott to the absent Minister Milan Chovanec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Since Minister Chovanec is duly excused, I am downloading my interpelation and will retain it when he is physically present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u143	Thank you, it's your right, of course. We will continue to interpel Mrs Věra Kovářová to the absent and duly excused Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance of Andrej Babiš. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u144	Dear Minister, it is 3 March 2016. The last time you responded to oral questioning was April 30, 2015. If you want to change the Rules of Procedure, as you talk about it sometimes, I would know about one problem that the amendment could solve. But what I would like to talk about and respond to your written answer to my question about this matter. You have stated that you do not agree with changing the model of funding for institutions providing activities of former heads of state. My idea is that the current arrangement is inconvenient. I understand your position, but I don't think it's right. The current model is based on the principle that former presidents are supported by very wealthy individuals if you want oligarchs. The Institute of President Havel is funded by Zdeněk Bakala, the Institute of President Klaus Petr Kellner. Former presidents have a significant say in society, and in the case of a directly elected president, it will certainly be even more significant. To expose them to a situation where they are forced to ask for oligarch resources after the end of their term of office, I really do not consider that to be happy. The reasons are obvious. I'm asking myself who's going to sponsor President Zeman's presidential library when he leaves the head of state office. What other oligarch might be interested in this? Or could funding come from abroad? This is also possible and again I do not think completely happy. Maybe the Czech ex-president shouldn't finance Russian money. I would therefore like you to think this through once more, taking into account the arguments that have been raised here today. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u145	Thank you, Mrs Věra Kovářová, for the time being, and we continue to interpel Mr Karel Rais to the absent Mrs Valachová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u146	Dear absent Minister of Education, I am often asked about the control of the Supreme Audit Office of European funds in connection with media turmoil regarding the issue of inclusion, namely the SAO's report No. 1506, which reports nine centres of support for inclusive education, which have ceased after the completion of the European project without compensation. This violated the sustainability committed by the MŠMT investigators, and there is a real risk that the beneficiary of the subsidy will be forced to repay the subsidy. The subsidy was about 133, or more than 133 million crowns. Within the framework of the project, nine support centres were set up to create methodological materials to support inclusion. During the audit, it was found that the Ministry of Education had no information as to whether schools were using methodology. It was also said that no one was interested in the educational course created by the Ministry of Education. The SAO found that the established centres after the completion of the implementation of the project had ceased without compensation, so that activities at regional level could no longer be supported. Education course The methodology of the school support programme was announced only twice until the time of inspection. It did not happen because of the lack of interested parties. [[17.20 hours]] In the context of the situation, I would like to ask what specific personnel implications are drawn from these elementary errors in the drawing of European Union funds to support inclusion. I mean, how did you solve the problem of shutting down nine centres of support for inclusive education? Secondly, if the Ministry of Education requires, for example, a further increase in funding to ensure inclusion under the financial medium-term plan. If so, how do you ensure that the funds are not drawn again in this significantly ineffective way? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u147	I thank Mr Karel Rais. There will be a written answer in 30 days. And now to the absent Kateřina Valachová Mr. Radim Holeček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u148	Madam Secretary, as an educator, I would like to know your opinion about the fury that has hatched, and I do not know how much with your knowledge, probably on your work team, and in which I see a breach of the principle of equality under the Labour Code, where employees would enjoy greater protection in employment relations than an employer who is also an employee, i.e. the head of the school. In the House, there is Amendment No. 3719 Matěj Fichtner to the school law governing the possibility of dismissal of school directors. To the current grounds of appeal, the Director is increasing further, literally and to the letter without giving any reason. I personally consider this step to be a clear populism that responds to current events around the Prague school Na Třebešín and systemically is simply wrong. If this had passed, the directors would have really become mere puppets in the hands of the founders, in our case in the Ústí Region, in the case of the Communist leadership of the Ústí Region, which would then be able to call off the director when he disliked it. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u149	I thank Mr Radim Holečka. We continue by intersecting Mr Jan Farský for the apologized Minister Martin Stropnický. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u150	Thank you. Dear absent Minister, I have a question about the implementation of the Act on Resistance and Resistance to Communism, which was adopted under No. 262 in 2011. The preamble to this law states that the Parliament of the Czech Republic, led by the will to express respect and gratitude to women and men, who, during the period of communist totalitarian power with the exercise of their own lives, personal freedom and property, actively defended the values of freedom and democracy, were determined to permanently commemorate the ideals of patriotism, honor, bravery and self-sacrifice to future generations, expressing deep regret over the innocent victims of the terror of the communist regime. And coming out of the principles which he incorporated into the law on the unlawfulness of the Communist regime and on opposition to it, he decided on this law of the Czech Republic. - A relatively short and simple law follows, which assumed that anyone who applied would pass certain - then we assumed simple - proceedings and will be granted, certified and associated material compensation and will also be adjusted for his pension. Unfortunately, there were about 270 thousand rehabilitated political prisoners, 5,000 of whom have requested, and so far only a thousand have received this certificate. From the time that has passed since 17 November, and from the period covered by this law, it is clear that many are leaving, and therefore this rehabilitation is not granted to them by a certificate. I would like to ask, Minister, out of respect for those to whom we owe our freedom, that you do everything you can to speed up the handling of these requests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u151	I thank my colleague Farský. He'll get an answer in 30 days. Now, Mr Jiří Koubek's interpellation to the Minister of Transport, Dan Ťok, in the case of Decree No. 45/2015. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u152	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, slowly, but surely the water season is coming up, and with it comes one big problem, a problem that did not exist until your ministry issued Decree No. 46 which, inter alia, regulates the scope and conditions of use of surface water for navigation. This decree was introduced, allegedly at the instigation of the Ministry of Agriculture, a new wording concerning the granting of consent to the crossing of a lake on watercourses used by water areas. The original Order, called the Fair Safety Code, stipulated that small vessels may sail through or through the jews, with the agreement of the Waterway Manager. In practice, this meant that if a ban mark was not placed in front of the Jeez, it was possible to travel through the lake or release it at its own risk. However, the new Decree of the Ministry of Transport No. 46 of April 2015 replaces the agreement of the administrator of the relevant waterway with the agreement of the manager of the Jeez, unless the merger is modified by signal signs. The experience of waterboats is such that the signs allowing the coupling are almost absent, so there is an obligation to request the consent of the administrator of a particular Jeez. And there seems to be a logically buried dog. It's virtually impossible to get operational contact with the relevant administrator, let alone get a quick answer from him. In the absence of a permit, the water-going jews cannot be sailed and, in the event of a breach of this obligation, § 117 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) Law No 245/2001 Sb. impose a fine on the ship's leaders. So, Minister, I'd like to ask you that. I suppose it wasn't intended to drive the watermen, the scouts, the children's squads and all the lovers of water recreational sports out of our rivers. So I'd like to ask you about this decree and possibly the correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u153	Thank you. The Minister is ready to answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor. It's the last of your interviews today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u154	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by saying one thing. This provision, which is now in Decree No. 46/2015 Sb., unfortunately, is not new, it is a provision that has been in the order of navigational safety since 1991. We have repealed this navigational safety code and, during the review procedure, this provision remained in place during the abolition of this navigational security order and its replacement by Decree 46/2015. The reason is simple. Of course, it's a matter of the fact that the owner of the journey doesn't want to tie himself up completely and have the possibility that someone will sue him if something happens on the lake that he eats isn't in the right state. This means that today we are preparing to solve this problem, to amend this decree. The amendment is also agreed with the Ministry of Agriculture. We proposed to completely abolish this provision, but we agreed in an inter-ministerial commentary procedure that we would put the following wording: On surface waters which are not followed by water, the passage through the jews or their passage is possible only at their own risk, and unless it is prohibited by the owner of the lake or signal sign. The flow through the jews or through their passage may be further modified by signaling signs. On the one hand, I understand that they want to put this provision in the water catchment area as the owners of the lakes in order to protect themselves against possible lawsuits. On the other hand, the question is whether this wording will go through the Government's Legislative Council, because there is some kind of freedom that, in their view, may not be right. It seems okay to me, but if there's a problem from the perspective of the Government Legislative Council, we're going to propose, as the Department of Transport, that this be completely unleashed and unsolved. [[17.30 hours]] The fact is that from the point of view of ignorance of the order of navigational safety, the provisions of the last 20 years have been ignored and not taken into account at all. By reappearing in the decree, it came to the surface and woke up controversy. We certainly want to resolve this, because our concern is not to limit water and water sports at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u155	Thank you, Minister of Transport. Mr Koubek will have an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u156	Thank you, just a follow-up question. If the Government's Legislative Council had agreed to this and you would have included it in that decree - with what effect, since when can the watermen wait for that change in the decree? Make it this water season? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u157	Thank you for a clear brief question. I'm sure the Minister will answer very briefly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u158	We're making an adjustment not just for this. That's the decree that also limited night mooring and other things that aroused controversy over water sports, so of course we'd like to set it up so that the upcoming water season can sort these things out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u159	I thank the Minister for his additional reply. Interpelation number 22. My colleague Radim Holeček informed me that he was downloading it, and we will continue to interpel Mr Jiří Koubek to the Foreign Minister. I just want to inform you that the Foreign Minister has apologized to me since he has a meeting at the Ministry from 5:30 p.m. and therefore apologizes from 5:30 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. He left at 5:15, as I'm sure you've seen. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u160	Thank you, Mr President. I'm sorry, because I just saw the Minister here, so I was looking forward to his answer. However, I will still allow myself to load this interpellation. Dear Minister, last week Prague embarked on a thin ice of foreign policy. It approved the so-called sister agreement between Prague and Beijing, to which the Chinese party pushed a point recognising Taiwan as an integral part of China's territory. Such a statement is extremely foreign policy and, in my opinion, an agreement between ammunition does not belong here at all. Moreover, in the preamble to the agreement, both cities apply to the press release of both ministries, but as if it were not enough, there had to be this special point about Taiwan. Rather than an equal partnership, this agreement demonstrates the subordinate position of Prague vis-à-vis Beijing. Similar agreements with other metropolises such as Dublin and Copenhagen do not have these provisions. This agreement did not go unanswered with the political representation of Taiwan. According to news in the media, the Taiwanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs should have demanded an explanation from Czech diplomacy that it would never accept any wording that contradicts the sovereign status of the country. On February 27th, your ministry's press secretary said that there was no information on this fact, and therefore a protest from Taiwan. Almost a week has passed since then, and therefore, Minister, I am asking you whether the Ministry has already received this protest note or request from the Taiwanese Party. If so, what is its content, how you answered it, or how you respond to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u161	Thank you for your time on the question, and we will continue with another interview by Mrs Pavla Golasowská. Mr Koubek will certainly receive an answer within the legal time limit. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u162	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I submit an interview to the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán on the lack of places in Czech prisons and the related acquisition of electronic bracelets. In the near future, up to 2,300 places will be missing in Czech prisons, which corresponds to about four to five new prisons. The cost of building them would be an investment of 430 million. CZK and costs of operation 750 million. crowns a year. In connection with the increase of convicted and insufficient capacity in prisons, the Ministry of Justice decided to purchase electronic bracelets, which would partially solve the situation with a shortage of prison sites. However, no one applied to the first tender for electronic bracelets and the second tender was written these days. So far, the problem with placing the condemned remains. Dear Minister, I would therefore like to ask you: If a winner emerges from the second tender, how soon will electronic bracelets be realized? Secondly, how does the Justice Department intend to solve the problem of the shortage of prison sites? Whether it is solved only by electronic bracelets, or is it necessary to create new residences, whether by building a new prison or by reconstructing existing buildings? And thirdly, how soon does the Justice Department intend to solve the problem of the prison shortage? Thank you for answering my questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Golasowská. And since Mr. Robert Pelikán is excused, the answer will be legal. Now allow me to inform you. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček withdrew his interview number 25 and 30, so we will continue with the interview number 26 and this is the interpelation of Mrs Věra Kovářová, also to the excused Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek on the acceleration of Internet connection. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u164	Dear Minister, recently headlines have been multiplying: 14 billion will escape the Czech Republic. on the fast internet. The Czech Republic is in danger of running out of 14 billion. from the EU on the Internet. Or, we're going to lose 14 billion. on fast internet, warn operators. However, doubts about the drawing of these funds have been expressed for a long time. I think it's a serious subject. 14 billion. You can't find it on the street. We shouldn't let this money slip through our fingers. It is clear that their contribution to the countryside in particular could be significant. I am afraid that the comments you have made on this matter cannot be considered satisfactory. I could therefore ask you to explain the whole situation, describe the current situation and schedule of steps that the MIT intends to take to 14 billion. Didn't it go to waste? Please calm me down. In conclusion, let me make one more comment. I firmly hope that the billions on the fast Internet are in charge of a super deputy whose name is secret and who received a reward for good results at the MIT last year when drawing money from the European Union of 1.3 million. Crowns. If he had it in his hands, I'd be a little more satisfied. Can you calm me down about this, too? Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. I believe he'll get the answer in time. We will continue with the interview number 27 of Mr Petr Bendl to Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. Mr. Ambassador, please have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u166	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, I'm basically all I wanted to say, exhausted in that first interview, as I've already told you outside the counter. I will submit a written interpelation to your hands, as the construction of the dam in Berounka deserves a more detailed debate. So I'll put it in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u167	Thank you, the Minister won't answer in that case. We could be exhausted. Now, therefore, the interview number 28 by Mr Karel Andrle Sylor to the currently apologized Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek on the humanitarian subsidy for Syria. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u168	Dear Minister, on 15 December, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs announced a call for proposals for humanitarian aid projects under grant titles Purpose grants to non-state non-profit organisations in the framework of the provision of humanitarian aid - immediate assistance for Syria. The evaluation committee has finally selected the winning projects and I would like to ask you the following questions in this context: 1. What were the criteria of the evaluation committee? 2. Did the Commission take into account the fact that some candidates in the competition did not claim any wage or personal resources for the project, in other words, that they were going to use the entire subsidy in the area affected by the humanitarian disaster? For example, our request. 3. What were the costs of wage and personal winning applicants in full? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u169	I thank Mr Andrle. I'm sure the Foreign Minister will respond within a legal deadline. This is Mrs Věra Kovářová to the pardoned Minister Milan Chovanec. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u170	Dear Minister, allow me to address you on the situation of municipalities in the immediate vicinity of canceled or reduced military retreats. It's not just Brdy, it's also about other military retreats, which were substantially affected by Act No. 15/2015 Sb. What's my first concern? The Government's proposal for this law did not provide for any increase in the revenues of the municipalities concerned in connection with this emergency situation. When the House Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development recommended that new municipalities at least receive double the tax revenue from the budgetary determination of taxes in 2016 and 2017. Unfortunately, the proposals for financial improvement of the enlarged communities have not succeeded. I would like to ask what considerations the government has taken in preparing this proposal and why it has not taken into account the increased needs of both new and widespread authorities. And above all, what does he plan to do for the municipalities that generate considerable costs as a result of enlargement? I think that the Ministry of the Interior could have a special space in this regard, especially with regard to fire protection issues. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u171	Thank you, Mrs Věra Kovářová, I'm sure the Minister will answer. Interpelace number 30 Mr Zdeněk Ondráček withdrew, so now to the absent apology minister Andrej Babiš, Mr Radim Holeček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u172	Dear absent Minister, I am interrogating you on the probable grant fraud that your company is being investigated by the European Anti-Fraud Office, OLAF. It is very interesting how you keep saying that you need to level up the business environment, and you yourself benefit from subsidies that you didn't even qualify for. Do you need this, Minister? I mean, $50 million is your change. The additional payment of these 50 million you may be planning does not produce you in a given case. I'd like to clarify a few things. The subsidy should have been used to promote tourism. Do you house any tourists there or not? I also wonder why your company applied for a grant that belongs to small and medium-sized enterprises when you say that Agrofert is a big company and how much money it pays in taxes. But, Minister, every time you say "A," you have to say "B." That is, how much did Agrofert get from the taxpayers' money subsidies? It's a lot more than you did in taxes. So I'm asking you to clarify what's going on with the subsidies you know about. This is the second case that OLAF has been involved in around your companies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u173	Thank you for the question, the Minister will certainly answer within a legal period. We are coming to the interview number 32 of Mr Petr Bendl to Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. This time it's not about water, it's about chasing. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u174	Yes, you are right, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues. Minister, I'm asking you about the transfer of forest land to secondary forestry schools. As early as 2013, the government agreed to transfer forest land and their chasing precisely to strengthen the possibility of teaching these secondary forestry schools. As you know, the foresters do not have a bed on the roses, there is no overplay of interested people who would like to study this direction, and it is, I believe, our common interest in allowing secondary schools to use any chasing for teaching and teaching purposes. I am interested, Minister - because rumors have come to me that we have made life a little more difficult for people who have already thought about these jerking offs - why it hasn't happened yet and what you will do to get these chasing schools to teach.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u175	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And Minister Marian Jurečka is ready for an answer. The Minister of Agriculture has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u176	Thank you, good evening, Mr President, dear colleagues. To this interpelation I have to say that there are two things that need to be distinguished here, and that is the transfer of land, respectively. forests for the use of school fields approved by the government, when it is proposed that schools with a particular type of graduation should be able to obtain a thousand hectares of forest for teaching or teaching purposes. I must say that there is a need to look at this so that Czech forestry education has a great history in three key schools for decades - three schools - Písek, Trutnov and Hranice. The number of graduates of these schools now exceeds the needs of the whole sector, that is what needs to be said. I gave and in the process is the transfer of land from the Forests of the Czech Republic to the school in Trutnov. I have no problem fulfilling this government resolution here. Let's say I have some questions that I want to introduce to the coalition council and give consideration to the revision of the government resolution, because there are other schools where the number of these graduates, for example, the number of seniors is six or seven. And I wonder if we, by this step, by transferring these land, have, say, to launch a possible hypothetical future avalanche, that then the regional authorities will have ambition, regional leadership of individual regions, to open up these graduations in their schools, which they will be giving, say, a guarantee or an expectation that they will also receive a thousand hectares on the school fields. I just want to get my colleagues from the government to know that if I fully implement the government's regulation, which, of course, is possible, we will also weaken the three traditional schools whose level of teaching can fall significantly in the future. That's what needs to be realized. So here are some of my concerns that I'm raising about the whole process. Technically, I don't have a problem with it, I just want my fellow ministers, especially the Minister of Education, to realize what further implications this may have for the sector. As far as chasing is concerned, of course, in the case of a school with a school pole above 500 ha of related land, there is no problem with the creation of chasing. If these are schools that do not have it today, it is of course possible to apply in the competition for rental of hunting land. So here I have to say, the vessels are partly connected, but we can't guarantee that the school will have a chase in the future. It's not exactly that simple. And the concerns I have expressed here are really based on pure rational arguments, numbers, and how I and I perceive the reactions of experts who have been engaged in forest education for many years. So that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u177	Thank you, Minister of Agriculture. Mr Petr Bendl is about to ask an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u178	I'm reading your answer here, so one school does, two don't. When you say you're slightly skeptical, or I don't remember the exact expression, I think it's a mistake. Because the state wouldn't lose anything. You know well that there are fixed commitments to the state in order not to be alienated, so that no one can manipulate it, etc. Not the county, not the school. I think if you want to go this way, it's for forestry as such a mistake. And I'm not convinced that the fact that the school has a chase at its disposal or the relevant forest land to teach, that it would be some significant sheet for teachers, or virtually. for pupils, rather for better quality teaching and handling of the forest. From the perspective of the future, I think that would be the right decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u179	The Minister of Agriculture is preparing for a follow-up response. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u180	I'm not an expert in secondary and vocational forestry education, but when I've talked about this issue with people who have worked there for decades and really are renowned people, they say, well, think about it. And that's what my reaction sounded like. I said I was expressing some concern, I said, think carefully about what you can do with that step. You can also start the fact that the three schools, which today have practically several hundred students, at that point will be significantly weakened and the overall quality of teaching will go down. And there will be general teaching, the quality of teaching in the whole Czech Republic in the field of forest education. That's what people have been saying for years. That's not what Marian Jurečka says. I'm just interpreting it here. I'm going to want to introduce my colleagues from the government to this before it is definitively confirmed whether or not the government's order, the previous government, is to implement it completely or not. I just want to inform my colleagues about the potential risks and impacts, because really a school that has seven graduates in the senior year, so I'm giving consideration to whether it's a completely prospective school in that school that we want. If he's gonna get a thousand hectares of land for seven graduates in a given year. That's all. I don't have a problem with the fulfillment. I mean, whether the ministers, who are responsible too, or the Minister for Education, comment on this, even though, of course, he is the founder of the region in this case. But I don't think the concerns I've gained or brought in by people who deal with this issue are entirely without rational facts. I think it would be a good idea to think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u181	I thank the Minister of Agriculture for his follow-up response. We have the last interview of Mr Petr Bendl to the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček on aviation rescue. The Minister is duly excused, so I'm asking you to give me an interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u182	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent Minister, I believe you will answer me in writing. I want to ask you how the air rescue service is secured for next year, in case it is not what the causes are. And whether you have information from the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Defence whether they have the capacity to operate an air rescue service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-009-224.u183	I thank Mr Petr Bendl for his clear questions to the Minister of Health. This has exhausted all written interpelations when only four Members have given up on the interpellation. [[oral]] Since we've exhausted the entire agenda of the day, I'm going to interrupt the Chamber of Deputies meeting in a few moments by tomorrow at nine o'clock. I will inform you, under the Rules of Procedure Act, that the fixed points for tomorrow morning's negotiations are paragraphs 163 and 164, i.e. prints 637/7 and 638/6, public procurement and public procurement law, or other points from the third reading block. Have a good evening and I look forward to seeing you tomorrow.
