ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-007-035.u1	35. Government bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 912/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be presented by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-007-035.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Members, this proposal concerns a single issue, namely the retirement age. Several adjustments to the pension age have already been made in the Czech Republic for the effectiveness of the valid pension insurance law 1995. The last adjustment was in 2011. In this year, further increases in pension age were approved, but without a fixed target, so the pension age is actually increasing indefinitely for insured persons born after 1977. And this proposal proposes removing this unlimited increase in retirement age and proposing setting the highest pension age at the age of 65. Furthermore, the draft law provides for a review of the pension age at regular five-year intervals on the basis of a report submitted by the Government of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, based on the demographic forecast of the Czech Statistical Office and will contain information about the pension age, so that the typical or average, if we want, the pensioner can spend a quarter of his life in retirement, which is actually the period as it is on average today. The first such report will be submitted to the government in 2019, and the government may or may not follow any such proposals or information. We believe that this regulation will contribute to strengthening the transparency of the expectations of insured persons regarding the methods of determining their retirement age on the basis of some objective and publicly available documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-007-035.u3	Thank you, too, Madam Secretary. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Jaroslav Zavadil. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-007-035.u4	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I'm just going to add a few words to that, a few things that haven't been said here yet, because the secretary here said quite the most important thing. I would just like to say that with regard to the assessment of the compliance of the proposed legislation with European Union legislation and the case law of the European Union's judicial authorities and international treaties by which the Czech Republic is bound, this requirement is in full compliance with international treaties, respectively. conventions ratified by the Czech Republic. From the conventions containing provisions on the maximum age limit for entitlement to a building pension, the relevant Convention and the Mopka, or the International Labour Organisation, is Article 128, paragraph 2, and the European Social Security Code, which refers to the fulfilment of the conditions under ILO Convention No 102, which is similar to that of the age limit, as was Convention No 128. The European Social Charter does not contain provisions on the maximum age for entitlement to an old-age pension. Otherwise, as regards the impact on privacy and personal data issues, no negative effects were identified. And as far as the assessment of corruption risks is concerned, I can say that this proposal does not involve any, I repeat, any corruption risks. All that on my part. I'd be happy to give you the floor to continue the meeting. Thank you. **
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-007-035.u5	Thank you. I open a general debate in which I register three applications. I will now ask Mr Opálka, Mr Vilímec will be prepared, then Mrs Chalánková. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-007-035.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Madam Secretary, colleagues, colleagues, let me also make a few comments on this issue. There's a big discussion about whether 65 years is short or a lot. I would like to stress that most countries have 65 years, a little bit more. But if we compare life expectancy, or the hope of living in individual states, even if life expectancy extends in our country, I must say that we are still two to three years behind the European average. So setting the same age, the statutory retirement age, means telling our citizens that they're going to be retired for a shorter time. That's my first point. My second point relates to the fact that KSČM, as well as the KSČM in its electoral programme, demanded that we set a ceiling on retirement, and that this is also a psychological signal to citizens, so that it is clear that in this area we behave in a similar way to other states around us. I am sorry that the government does not come up with this proposal until three years later, I understand that it is time for this, and I have already tabled this proposal in the Committee on Social Policy on 28 May 2014. The table is basically similar to that of this law, but unfortunately, what was expected was decided by the professional pension committee. So here's the bill. And the bill has already been presented in the election campaign for regional elections by social democracy under the title "We want to stop extending retirement". So it's on the table. But I would like to draw attention to Section 10b on page 4 of the bill submitted, which is then divorced in the explanatory memorandum in the first paragraph on page 15. The explanatory paragraph states, among other things, because it has not been mentioned here that the Ministry and the Government will receive information on survival from the Czech Statistical Office and from documents from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and will try to ensure that the retirement period is 25 per cent of life. We're talking average. So if I quote from the end of the paragraph of this explanatory memorandum, then I must say that the generation considered born in 1994 in 1919 when it reaches the age of 25, a pension entitlement will be set at a level of about 68,6 years. [[2019?]] It is therefore almost certain that the first report will reach the above-mentioned recommendation for the Government to impose on the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs a law amendment which would further increase the pension age to the level of 68,6 years above, that is to say plus 3.6 years. It's not about the ceiling, it's about setting a limit, which will be judged and moved every five years. I understand that we can live to be older, but what I miss in this paragraph and in this part of the explanatory report is the incorporation of life in health. Just because we live to be a certain age doesn't mean that 50 percent of people in that age aren't disabled under the weight of civilization diseases, there's a lot of talk about stress syndromes, and so on and so on. We really have a problem with this at the KSČM club, because we face the outside that we are putting a stop to retirement, while there is a regime that relaxes this, and there is no adjustment to the question of survival. This means that a number of people are likely to live to see this at a retirement age. And the second problem that is connected to this, and I think it is also very serious that we do not solve the problem of hard work in parallel to this border, that is, before pensions from the law compulsory insurance of employees by an employer who has profits from this hard work, and we are actually constantly putting it off and pushing ahead. I think that when we waited three years for this law, we could have incorporated these things into this law. There is, of course, a KSČM club for the statutory age limit of 65 years, but with the comments I have made here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-007-035.u7	Thank you, too. I will now ask Mr Vilímec, Mrs Chalánková will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-007-035.u8	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, we have here again an amendment to the Pension Act. In this parliamentary term, as you know, the government coalition has come up with the fact that it has abolished the pension reform that has been voted out in the last parliamentary term. být be it, but she didn't come up with any other alternative, with any other proposal. Now he's actually coming up with a re-shoot of retirement at 65 years. Allow me also to make a few comments on this bill. The proposal, of course, envisages revisions that should always respond to the report on the state of the pension system of the Czech Republic presented to the government by 30 June of the calendar year ending with digit 4 or 9. In particular, the report should include information on how the retirement age should be established in order to achieve a condition where the expected life expectancy of individual generations when reaching that age would be one-quarter of the sum of that age and that expected life expectancy, for all persons who reached 25 to 54 years of age in the year of submission of the report. This is part of the paragrafo version. As you know well, there is currently a gradual increase in retirement, there is no limit. An increase to 65 years, and this also needs to be realized, will occur for men and women with a maximum of one child in 2030, even according to the new table of this proposal, which actually does not change the retirement age by 2030, so it is actually up to 2031 and beyond. Thus, only when, according to the current table, the age is 65 years old, this age is fixed. It's just a very distant horizon for me after all. I think we should rather ask whether, in 2030, the existing system, which is actually dominantly based on ongoing funding, will ensure a decent amount of pension. In other words, whether pensioners will take a decent pension in 2030. [[16.50 hours]] When you look at the explanatory memorandum, it is said that the current retirement and average wage ratio is currently above 40 percent. Even for the next year, even though pensions have been audited by 2.7 percent, it is expected to fall to the 40 percent limit. If we go on and there is, let's say, this time projection is done, so if we go on, then the year - that's the end of the time projection - in 2060 according to this proposal, if nothing changes, this indicator will drop to 34.5 percent. Of course, it will depend on the courage of future political representations to which they will always accept a very unpopular increase in retirement age. This is always very unpopular, even if it is based on reporting. It is evident that if Parliament had not agreed to those revisions that are not automatically set up in the law, this would mean, and this was mainly the reservation of the Minister of Finance, according to the current projections of the indicator representing the so-called. The necessary extent of fiscal consolidation impact about CZK 67 billion. The end of the pension-age increase process when reaching the 65-year limit would, of course, result in an increase in the average retirement period by more than four years, which should also be objectively said, compared to so-called. zero option. I do not want to give detailed statistical data here, perhaps an interesting debate on committees, and I have to assess positively that they are contained in the explanatory report and are based on the effects of regulatory assessments. It's quite an interesting reading. In the order of the variants, this final report notes that the most appropriate solution is actually in line with the political assignment, and I underline this, in line with the political assignment, the end of the process of increasing the pension age by setting its limit at 65 years. It also follows from this wording that in the preparation of this proposal, after all, it was prepared and voted before the regional elections in the government, where political interests were pursued, in principle, and not the impact of the measure in fact. When I look into the recent past, the Minister also mentioned it here, so it was only in 2011 that the right-wing government had found the courage to take a major step in the matter, i.e. retirement, i.e. She's canceled on the age of leaving. Yes, there was political courage here in the last parliamentary term, it was not popular, it also may have contributed to the outcome of the elections, there was the courage to cancel the earlier ceiling, with the fact that, on the basis of a serious analysis, the departure in the future will adapt to demographic development, the development of life expectancy, but also to the development of the health disposition of the population. This has also been said here. It is obvious that there are categories of physical work where it is not possible to extend the age of retirement extremely. And it's not just a mining profession, in my opinion. Instead of a reasonable setting of such categories, I would rather expect that, but the government and, above all, the social democracy before the regional elections tried to play the populist note. I don't want to discuss how this was reflected in the results of the regional elections. It also sounded out of the mouth, I think, of my colleague Opálka and others, that we are, in fact, the only country in Europe that does not have a broken retirement age. She's a little more complicated than that. When I read the regulatory impact assessment report, I will only give the examples that are given there. I think it's time to remember. For example. In Denmark, the pension age will gradually increase from the current 65 years to 67 years between 2024 and 2027 and from 2030 will be linked to an increase in the hope of living at the age of 60. In Slovakia, a law was adopted, yes, in 2012 establishing an automatic pension age adjustment mechanism from 2017 onwards. And because the hope of survival is expected to grow, the current age limit that is set there will grow to 62 years. The basis is a comparison of two five-year-olds, it's such a complicated, consecutive gliding mean life expectancy and a calculation of the real shift in the hope of living in the number of days. The age is thus not clearly determined, but a shift in pension age will be announced annually. In the Netherlands, according to the pension law, it is not only expected to increase the pension age to 67 years in 2021, but since 2019 the effectiveness of the so-called pension age is assumed. a balancing mechanism that would automatically adjust the retirement age according to the evolution of the expected hope of survival. In Italy, and this is the last country I will remember, of course I could remember more, the changes to retirement are divided on the basis of the administrative process laid down in the law. The retirement age is then increased by as much as the hope of survival has increased during the period under examination. I would rather conclude because I believe that the bill will not be rejected at first reading, so that it will not be returned to the translator's work, so there will certainly be a comprehensive debate on the Committee on Social Policy, but I would like to quote from the minutes of the meeting so called. Professional Pension Commission of 11 December 2014. Quote: In the meeting of the expert committee was e.g. Mr Miroslav Opálka made a request for a pension age of 65 years. That's what my colleague was talking about. Tomáš Kučera, who is the head of work team number 2, dealing with retirement age and pension valorization, commented on this by setting a fixed value of 65 years and then changing it would be psychologically wrong. On the contrary, the predetermined variable value of the retirement age, while maintaining the condition of 25 per cent of life in retirement, is fairer and more understandable to citizens in the intergenerational manner. Today's efforts by the government to counter populistly, I cannot call it, I do not consider retirement age to be a responsible step at the moment, in addition it is carried out in great time and will lead to one thing: any future debate on the basis of the reports that will be submitted, and perhaps even serious analyses and numbers, will be made difficult and we are obviously making the next governments more difficult, and knowingly, the situation if the proposal passes. Every change will again bear the high political costs that we can all save. These high political costs were borne by the previous government. It will not be beneficial, and ultimately I think not only for the government but also for the pensioners themselves. For this reason, if a motion is made to reject this draft at first reading or to return it to a recast, it will be supported by the Civic Democratic Party Club. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-007-035.u9	Thank you. Now, then, Mrs Chalánková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-007-035.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, many have already been said here. It was said here that this proposal, or this amendment, was tabled so that future pensioners could obtain the pension security, the retirement age. I think it is this proposal that, if it is approved, this certainty is being lost. We are talking here that they are pensioners who will retire after 2030, i.e. We commit the governments that will rule at that time, until then, to 2030. We hear that there will be a regular review of the pension account status and demographic developments, and there may be a change in this fixed retirement period after five years if there is no miracle and that pension account doesn't miraculously show money that we didn't know about. From my point of view, these are rather closed eyes or unwillingness to see the future and admit that we have to deal with completely different things at the moment. In order to establish such a fixed retirement age, all steps taken at all by pension systems must continue in the long term, i.e. We must perceive the state of the pension account, the state of the income, the number of people who contribute to the pension account at all, also the contribution from the state budget, if we politically complement these missing income in the pension account from other sources, from the tax revenue of the State. And we have to agree politically here if we take this money for example. the money needed for defence, education or health care. We must be aware that all the steps relating to the reforms of pension accounts have long-term political costs and are very long-term matters. These are not things that we can set up in one parliamentary term if we don't want to talk about the fact that this step is just a marketing move. There must be a consensus across the political spectrum. It would be very advantageous, and it will not be possible to achieve this agreement. On the basis of the political decision to be taken, of course, on the basis of knowledge, expertise and background. Otherwise, it is merely a simple marketing move. If we perceive negatively what has been said here that we are at risk of an unlimited extension of the retirement age, it is always a matter of choice whether we tell ourselves the truth - yes or no. If we put an end to this retirement age and there is no miracle, and there will be no completely unexpected income in the pension account, then, of course, mathematically speaking from that point on, we will also have to talk about the fact that we will have to reduce indefinitely, and that is very unpopular, the amount of retirement. I agree with the previous speaker who said that hard work or employers' participation in the pension account should also be taken into account here. I want to say for myself that this proposal does not solve anything, it does not bring anything. This government merely abolished at least some pension reform, which was enforced as a coalition compromise, and yet it could and allowed the choice of saving at least part of the money that every worker has to pay for social and pension insurance. As a proposal, I consider this to be a non-negotiable one, and I am making a motion to reject this proposal. Or a second proposal for a return to the petitioner's rework. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-007-035.u11	Thank you. The next duly applied is Mrs Adamová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-007-035.u12	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I have heard a lot here, so I would not like to repeat everything. But I still can't forgive myself for speaking to this issue. And I'm also joining my two previous speakers that we're actually talking about one of the ČSSD pre-election announcements here at the moment. She certainly served before the regional elections, so now it is necessary to discuss it here, but nothing else really matters here at the moment. Because if this proposed amendment were to be some solution, or even certainty, for people who are now in working age and which are to be dealt with just about 2030, then we would not have just one of the parameters that we always have to deal with in pensions. Because of course the age of retirement or its mobility, as it increases rapidly etc., is one of the parameters. But we have two more, and that is the amount of contributions - and they are already at a relatively high level in our country today in international comparison, which makes Czech employees relatively expensive for their employers, and therefore in this case we can be expected to have to take some measures - but also the amount of pensions. That's another of the important parameters. So obviously we're going to see nothing but a combination of these three parameters that always have to come in a combination, we're going to solve the pension system. However, the current government does not provide a real solution. It only brings such simple proclamations, promises that can change significantly in future years, because by 2030, there will really be several different governments that can move these parameters, including the age of retirement. And they'll probably have to, as the material itself suggests. We really need to start dealing with the future now, not in the very future. When we look at demographic developments, they really are not satisfactory or some pleasant prognosis. Currently -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-007-035.u13	I apologize, Madame, for entering into your speech, but I will ask you, colleagues, if you have something urgent to deal with, to go into the foyer. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-007-035.u14	Thank you. At present, the population is each sixth senior over 60 years of age. And it won't take too long, just to grow up one generation, i.e. today's babies became people of working age and they were about 25 years old, and it's gonna be every third. Yes, every third. So the number of seniors in the population is going to double. With about a third of the state budget coming from old-age pensions today, we can imagine that this ratio has long been completely unsustainable without functional pension reform. So I would like to challenge you, and I call you repeatedly in discussing any amendment that you are proposing to stop sticking your head in the sand before this serious problem, so that you really start acting responsibly, because your behaviour on this issue is extremely irresponsible, and you really start preparing your pension solutions because you considered the previous government to be ineffective. It is therefore fair that you prepare your proposal to citizens of the Czech Republic, which will actually be based on clear figures, not only on these demographic calculations, but also on all experts who have something to say about this issue. And these are not just sociologists, they are economists in particular. So the pension committee should really start working on such a functional reform, not only on the destruction of a system, not just on the parametric minor changes that you brought in under the supplementary pension insurance. I am inclined to reject this amendment at first reading, because it does not really provide any solution. It brings nothing but a delightful proclamation and no certainty whatsoever as to how they try to talk to the petitioners, it really doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-007-035.u15	Thank you, Madame. I'll read the apologies. Today after 17.30 and 21 for work reasons, Mr Daniel Korte apologizes and, for today's work, for reasons of work, Mr Milan Šarapatka apologizes. I don't see anyone else reporting for the debate. If this is the case, I am ending the general debate and I am asking for the final words of the appellant and rapporteur. Not interested. In the general debate, proposals were repeatedly made for rejection and for the return of this material to the applicant for completion. Once again, I will call my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby to come to the vote. [[17.10 hours]] First of all, we will vote on the rejection of the proposal. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of rejection, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 124, 144 Members and Members registered, for proposal 20, against 66. This proposal was rejected. As a second proposal, the proposal for the referral to the applicant for completion was returned. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of returning this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 125, 144 Members and Members registered, for proposal 20, against 65. I note that this proposal has also been rejected. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? It's not like that. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that the proposal submitted be ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 126, 147 Members and Members registered, for proposal 120, against no one. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, but I ask whether anyone has a proposal for this commandment to the next committee or committees. I do not see any further proposals, in which case I thank you and I conclude the discussion of this point. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
