ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u1	1. Baby's Baby's Baby's Baby's Baby's Baby's Baby's I ask that the representatives of the appellants take the floor. This is President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u2	Let me just remind you that we signed the application for three MPs, myself and my colleague František Laudát. We politely asked you to give Mr Petr Fiala as the first President of the ODS to explain why we proposed the meeting, but you did not allow him to do so. At this point, I would like to thank the Chamber of Deputies for allowing Members who do not have the right to speak, because I think it is good that others can talk about it, and I believe that these speeches will be really pointless, because the opening performance of almost two hours was perhaps 5% and 95 percent were off. But that's okay. I think each and every one of us could have taken a picture of himself. Anyone who wants to squirm and always finds reasons. But I would ask one question from this position, which responds to the speech of the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš, respectively. Two or three. Minister, we have at our disposal your 2011 statement when you strongly condemned the Institute of Anonymous Shares. I think it was in the Hospodářské noviny. I don't have paper with me, but I'm able to trace the exact term and exact quote. I want to ask you, at a time when you so strongly condemned the existence of an anonymous stock institute, your next of kin owned anonymous shares today. Don't you see a contradiction? That's the first question. Second question, and again I respond to the performance of the Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. He told us it was ours, the holding, then we made anonymous shares and then my kids took them. And the key question is why you used an anonymous stock institute. What were you hiding? After all, you criticized it at the time - and you used the institute yourself. So I'm gonna believe what you said, who was the holder, and the key question is why you did it. Wasn't it so that Agrofert could be declared a small and medium-sized enterprise? I can't think of anything else. The Minister of Finance has been talking about how Godly a project this is, and I will not question his words. Then I ask, why are owners hiding behind such a great project? That doesn't make any sense to me. And you should ask those who applauded standing up. Don't you think that's weird? Why was it used? [[18.40 hours]] I'm not gonna do it today, maybe one of my colleagues, but we may be quoting Martin Komárek's comments from when he was not yet a member of the ANO movement. I've never used such sharp words to the address of Andrej Babiš. This may give us an opportunity to return to this in the debate. Perhaps Mr Komárek will also say when he has turned his mind and distanced himself from his articles, when he is very hard to question the person of the entrepreneur Andrej Babiš himself. And I believe we won't be the only ones - now I'm looking at members of other government parties. We've already heard a quote from the former opposition leader, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka today. Many of you colleagues, I remember, we could quote exactly the same way you were strict with members of the former government. [[unintelligible]] Like you said, when are they supposed to resign immediately, the next day and wait for a police investigation? And you're not that strict today. My question to you is, "Did you then be mistaken?" Or are you wrong today? Or do you apply your strict standards according to who is in government? When we're in opposition, we're strict, and when we're in government, we're understanding. And those are your own words. So use them again, or say, "We were wrong then." Both are honorable. But we want you to do it, but you can't ask us to do it, you see, we have a fragile coalition, our government could fall apart. It's like it doesn't apply to every coalition government. That's always true if there's a coalition government. Because if one member of the coalition has a problem and the other parties are pushing him to solve it, it threatens the stability and cohesion of the coalition. But the principles either apply or they don't. Or, colleagues of social democracy, when you're in opposition, and when you're in government, you don't. I will be happy to wait for your answers and explain to me the incomprehensible difference between your appearance in 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and your approach in 2016.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u3	Thank you to President Stanjur. By being the first in the debate, he earned... please. [[A Member of Stanjure refuses off the microphone, acting as a plaintiff.]] Oh, for the plaintiff. So that was the opening word of the plaintiffs. I am now launching a general debate, which was the first to be heard by President Kalousek. Sorry, but before he does, with a point of fact - excuse me, Mr Schwarz, a factual point can be made about something that has already been made. So now, Prime Minister Kalousek, after him, your point of fact. I'm sorry. The opening word is not a debate, I'm sorry. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief, because, once again, I do not want to say here - perhaps I cannot even say the debate, I do not want the cabaret, which was shown here by the Chairman YES and the Minister of Finance, to develop in any way. I really don't care how many kids, how many dogs, how many mares, how many giraffes, how many anonymous owners, and how many anonymous shares. What needs to be investigated should be investigated by the Police of the Czech Republic and investigated by OLAF. Any invectives will be heard here and released tomorrow in some way, so the Minister of Finance will say that they have been published by Bakalův or Soukupův's media, and Babišův's media and his footmen, former colleagues of Mr Komárek, whether they are named Plesl, Kamberský or Léko. It doesn't matter, and this discussion isn't going anywhere. Once again, I would like to draw your attention to the one thing I believe that the Chamber of Deputies must take that position. We are part of the European Union, we are one of the twenty-eight countries, we are part of the financial period 2014 to 2020. It's probably the last period where we're not clean payers, which means where we get more than we get. The guardian of the honesty of these subsidies is the audit authority of the Czech Republic, for which the Minister of Finance is politically responsible both to the Czech and European public. We're in a situation, and now let's look away from how, I'm sure it's not any of us's fault. I think it's just the greed of a big businessman who wanted to touch for the money of small businessmen, but we can argue about that a thousand times. Whatever happened, we are in a situation where our European subsidy supervisor, the European subsidy guardian, is being investigated by the European subsidy agency. I understand that someone can see this as an injustice. But perhaps even Mr Komárek must understand that this is not normal and that in this position the Czech Republic within the European Union is in an extremely uncomfortable situation. And that, as the Chamber of Deputies, we should say that we do not want to be in this situation. Or say you want to be in that situation. But then each of us will take responsibility for it. I just talked to the President of the Fiala and Mr. President Černoch about it, so I dare say that even after consulting the other opposition clubs, there are a lot of us who don't want to be in this situation. They do not want the Czech Republic as the only country in the European Union to have its supervisor in European subsidies in the position of the investigated and suspected grant fraud. That's really bad, yeah. I'm sorry, it's really bad. Even if it's a thousand times bitter, a thousand times unfair, it's really stupid. And we shouldn't be in this situation. That is why, as part of the discussion, I would like to propose a resolution: the Chamber of Deputies asks the Prime Minister to take such measures as would result in a person suspected of subsidising fraud not being responsible for the audit authority of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u5	Thank you to President Kalousek. I now have three factual points in response to President Kalousek's speech. First, Mr Bronislav Schwarz, then Mr Karel Fiedler, then Mr Jaroslav Borka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u6	Good evening. I have to speed in two minutes and just pragmatically, no offense to the minister and his čapí nest. Please, I'm lucky enough to have been in oil for years. It's a regional operational program. For those who don't know, I'm just gonna pragmatically repeat what's going on here. Most ODS people started regional operational programs. She set up pillars, or scoops of money, for which subsidies can be taken. This gentleman and his friends just did a project, the project was consistent with what they approved. Subsequently, Mr Kalousek's biggest supervisor, in his position as Finance Minister, checked and never came up with anything. And now all of a sudden, it's gonna come in handy, and after eight years, any one of us, now it's hitting on him, it's gonna come out that this project is bad. So I'm going to ask pragmatically as a guy who sits in the oil, why did you give him the ROP when the project was bad? And why didn't something come up during the check? That's easy. That's all I wanted to tell you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u7	I thank Mr Schwarz. Mr Karel Fiedler, Mr Jaroslav Borka, followed by Mr Miroslav Kalousek, with a factual remark. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm just going to use a factual remark. I'll respond briefly. What my fellow Member Schwarz just said about the subsidies. I've registered in the media, it's been written everywhere that subsidies are for small and medium-sized enterprises that would have a problem financing the project, they wouldn't have reached such a loan for such financial resources. That's what they're meant for. I heard today, in the opening self-commendation of the Minister, how the Agrofert holding makes huge billions, how they pay huge taxes. Is this the company, or is this the subject that can't reach that kind of money? It can't be such a problem for such Agrofert to reach a 50-million-dollar loan. What is it, then? [[18.50 hours]] I'm from Beskydy, where I have small villages around, where there are also farm farms. The citizens have pets there, they did it for tourists to get at least some people there to keep the communities alive. And they probably just swallowed it empty when they heard it today. They do it out of contributions, people contribute 20 crowns, 50 crowns. They've got tits, they've got ducks, they've got animals and they haven't got 50 million credit. And they're really small businessmen and really small companies, not Agrofert. And then we heard here, so I read several times in the paper that the minister said, I don't know who it belonged to, some company from a holding company. And it doesn't work anymore? Suddenly there are family members? Mr. Secretary, your further comments are untrustworthy to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u9	I thank Mr Fiedler. Last so far, with a factual remark, Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u10	Excuse me, but Mr Schwarz's comment cheered me up slightly. It was like he was saying, "What was that poor cheater supposed to do when those assholes let themselves be tricked?" It's their fault, he meant well, and they let themselves be deceived. That stupid Kalousek and that stupid Bendl, and they all got cheated. I was smart, I cheated on them, so I'm actually innocent, and they're responsible. So if you want to accept this argument, please, but I don't think it's working. And propos, first of all. And two. The audit, which Minister Babiš often abhors, in 2013, still under Minister Kalousek, concerned drawing on the subsidies without examining and tasking himself to examine the reason for the subsidy. That means whether or not she was lured out by fraud. So the audit in 2013 did not have anything to do with the problem that Minister Babiš here is facing, that he fraudulently lured out 50 million crowns for himself, which belonged to small entrepreneurs and not large ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u11	Thank you to President Kalousek. That was the last point of fact so far. Now with priority rights, President Laudat. After him, the Prime Minister. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor. I would first make a procedural proposal and then say a few minutes about what's happening here today, the case itself, because it's not a story for me, it's a case. So please, I am making a procedural motion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure because it is not a treaty or a law to continue the House's negotiations after 21.00. Then it is true that - and I take it that way, and if you so instruct me that I say it wrong - that even the vote can be voted, so after 21.00 and after 24.00. So please let this procedural proposal be voted on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u13	I'm afraid it must be on behalf of at least two MPs...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u14	On behalf of TOP 09 and ODS.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u15	To act today and vote after 21 o'clock and after 24 o'clock. That's how I understand your proposal, okay? Okay, I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. This is a procedural proposal that I will put to the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Sorry, I'm declaring this vote misguided. I'm denouncing all of you. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on President Laudát's procedural proposal to act today and vote after 21st and after 24th hour. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number nine, 130 Members are registered, for 42, against 78. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u16	Thank you, so a quick comment. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] If you don't mind, I won't be talking long.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u17	I'm sorry. I ask the House to keep it down, to question my colleague Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u18	So please, if you guys are still working on the billboards next time, we're not politicians - you're politicians and you're not working. So...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u19	I ask the House to keep it down. Please, colleague, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u20	I understand it's your first public problem. I'm talking about the whole coalition, but it doesn't even mean you have to yell at me. I would, therefore, if Prime Minister Sobotka is registered with priority rights, I suppose - I will not ask questions, it makes no sense and I am not an investigator, I am not a cop to use some of the practices of past people. So I separated it. I said two words, so not one. And it wasn't the same thing. So I'd like Mr. Schwarz to keep the comments out of the way. It's two different things to me. So I would like Mr Sobotka to comment on this - we have heard when discussing the Civil Service Act, how the aim is to depoliticize the state administration, how they will finally be deprived of the ingers of politicians and so on - what he will do to prevent what is happening at the Ministry of Finance today. As far as I'm concerned, the state's chief of staff doesn't want to deal with the case investigation. Then I learned from public sources, or it is known that it should be addressed by someone at the Office of the Government. So I would like the Prime Minister to see what was going on there, why the sub-ordination is being violated, why the Deputys are intervening and going to specific people two floors below, why they are being ignored by the relevant union directors and what conclusions they draw for those who have obviously violated their working conditions. This is one plane of the matter, and it shows exactly how the current coalition imagines the functioning of a depolitical government. And that's one very bad news for the public. Another level that I will mention here - and there would be a whole series of those planes that point not only to the case itself, but to the Czech policy - is the behaviour of the President. I think that those people who applaud him very much during his trips to the regions are under the discernment of 50 million crowns for few of them. For 50 million crowns, a solid institution can be built for the disabled, a solid retirement home can be built, a solid school can be built. And so on and so forth. If 50 million is not enough for some of them, for me and most of the decent people in this country, that is certainly not a small item. And if people are and are paying for fraud in thousands or tens of thousands of crowns, I don't understand why it's a marginality to somebody. I find it very immoral to involve children in this. It reminds me of some of the events from the very ugly times of the last century, when the facades of something were painting, and it doesn't even justify the fact that maybe the whole resort is very quality, very beautiful. But there are a lot of nice things in our country that have been built on immoral money, or silver money. So that's my next message. And finally, I'm not gonna touch Mr. Babiš, it's not worth it to me, but it's gonna be here a lot of times tonight. Only - a number of NGOs fighting corruption, a number of large and small entrepreneurs created a great PR Mr Babiš before the last elections, or his movement YES 2011, will be better. I'm sorry that some people are coming in today and admit that they seem to have made a mistake, but unfortunately I didn't hear the word "sorry" from any of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u21	I thank President Laudát. Now with priority rights, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u22	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I think I can be brief on this matter and I will not take up time for the other applicants who have applied for the agenda. First of all, I would like to begin by pointing out, my fellow Members, that the coalition has shown good will when it approved the agenda for this extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which was convened at the request of the opposition parties. This is not common at all in this Chamber of Deputies, and it has already been mentioned here that I was a representative of the opposition during the previous parliamentary term, and I can say that the then government majority consistently rejected the extraordinary meetings we tried to convene as opposition. In my opinion, what we have done as a government majority, we have done to make a contribution to some normal relations between the government and the opposition. First of all. Secondly, I want to say, and I am sitting here all the time, listening to the debate that has been going on here, from the very beginning, and I must say that the course of the meeting, the speeches that have been said here, has not changed my view of the right course of action in the matter. I don't think it's possible that I, as Prime Minister, anyone in the coalition, anyone in this Parliament subjugating investigators, subjugating prosecutors, or even subjugating judge. We need to wait for the outcome of the investigation. The whole matter is investigated by the Czech Police, as is known from public sources, the whole matter is investigated by the European Anti-Fraud Office, as is known from public sources. It's obvious, it's obvious, and the government has a strong interest in making this investigation impartial, so that the investigation is consistent. And, naturally, neither the police nor the Olaf investigation can, nor does the government want to intervene in any way. We will provide all necessary evidence for both investigations if any evidence is required of the government. I would also like to remind you that the whole thing that is under discussion today took place before the start of this government's term of office. The subsidy was granted before the government started its activities, the subsidy and its provision was repeatedly controlled, as has already been said here, before the government started its activities. An anonymous stock has been mentioned here as something that is strongly linked to this matter. The chairman of the ODS Stanjura Club mentioned it here. I would also like to mention one thing here, at least one thing, and that is what happened in this Chamber of Deputies by coincidence in 2009 and what happened here by coincidence in 2010. Twice as an MP, then opposition, I made a motion to cancel anonymous shares. We did it for the first time with fellow Members Tejc and Liška in 2009. Do you know what happened? The then government majority, or the then right-wing majority, under the leadership of the ODS, blocked the negotiation of the law and was no longer able to discuss it by the obstructions that were put to it. So the first attempt, we tried to cancel the anonymous stock, that's when the right prevented it. Right after the 2010 election, we tabled the proposal again. We wanted to cancel the anonymous stock. On the right, it was argued that this is a normal instrument for business investment and therefore why we propose such a thing at all as Social Democrats. Do you know what happened in 2010? The motion, of course, failed. Two attempts to cancel anonymous shares, those who are performing here today criticize this matter, so alone, their political parties, their political movements, were working against the abolition of anonymous shares. And I remember it well, and I can confirm it at any time and testify at any time. It was exactly the same. Those anonymous shares were not cancelled until 2013. And four years after we first proposed it here, it was only that in the spring of 2013 the law was finally passed, which abolished the bearer's shares. I think it's the exact same story as it was with solar power plants. That thing here today, too, has been mentioned in the debate. I remember very well how there was an effort by the solar boom to regulate the law, and I remember very well who suggested from the right to postpone these things, interrupting who was trying to disable them from the agenda, just so that the regulation didn't be discussed in time, just so that they could still be provided, paying subsidies to this area. I would like to ask my colleagues from the right, because there have been many speeches, many of which have been very moralizing, so that you do not rely on the fact that we have a short memory and that we do not remember how some things have been done here. Let's wait for the outcome of the investigation, have the police put the facts on the table for OLAF, and on the basis of concrete facts, let's act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u23	Thank you, too, Prime Minister. I'm recording three factual points. First President Stanjura, followed by President Fiala and others. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u24	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I want to respond to the words of my previous speaker, the Prime Minister. He called quoting his words moralizing. We've quoted your performance on the tape, Prime Minister. Prime Minister, if you wouldn't mind listening. We quoted your performance, and you just said on the microphone that we moralized. But those were your words. Then look in the mirror. If you don't like it, you guys can talk it out in front of that mirror and say no like that, it won't be here. And as for the story of supporting the solar barons, let's just say it the way it was. I was not a member of the Chamber of Deputies in 2009. But the first report from the ERU arrived at the Office of the Government at the moment when the administrative government was already there after the fall of the government of Mirek Topolánek. No. Although it was in the 2006-2010 parliamentary term, that is true. But it was at a time when there were already others in office at the Office of the Government and other members of the government were. And secondly, it was you who triggered it. It's like the pyromaniac is a volunteer firefighter at the same time, he lights the fire and then he goes out and he wants a medal for putting the fire out. This is the ČSSD approach on the issue of support for solar barons. Look up what my colleague here said, as it happens, from our region, Martin Říman. That's exactly what he warned you about. And many of you sitting here laughed at him, and not a single vote from the ODS MP came to support this law. Not one vote. If you have a problem with that, if you're looking for a culprit again, there's the same recommendation as at point one. Mirror.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u25	Thank you. Next, President Fiala, with a point of fact. After him, President Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u26	Now we have heard from the Prime Minister that he is convinced that he is doing the right thing, and he said: it is necessary to wait for the whole thing to be investigated, when the authorities that are going to investigate it give some opinion when the police investigate it, and then, if necessary, it is possible to act. I, Prime Minister, would remind you of your words in December 2010. I quote: According to the conviction of social democracy, the Prime Minister should appeal. Call off until the whole thing is investigated by the police before it's clear how it all happened. So many quotes from your performance. I guess that doesn't need another comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u27	Thank you. Now, President Kalousek, the President of Černoch will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u28	Thank you. Prime Minister, knowing that you are still not deaf as my honourable President, I have no choice but to think that you are making fun of us. You heard your finance minister here with your own ears, who said the farm belonged to his underage children and his partner. [[Dissenting voices from the diaper.]] His kids and his partner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u29	I am asking you, Members, not to shout at each other, and if you want to speak publicly, you must sign up for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u30	I hope you'll add those seconds to my list. [[- Go ahead.]] Just your loved ones - his loved ones, so I don't get caught on the floor. You heard that from a guy who looked at the camera a month ago, telling us, you and the whole public that he had no idea who the farm belonged to. That he doesn't know that he can't know that he had nothing to do with it. In other words, there's a convicted liar sitting next to you who convicted himself. He himself has been convicted today of a public lie he's shot before the public. You haven't heard, Prime Minister? And you're saying that OLAF and the Police of the Czech Republic still have to deal with this? What the hell else is he supposed to be saving up when there's a liar sitting next to you who convicted himself of that lie? Prime Minister, do it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u31	Thank you. Another with priority rights, President Černoch, will be prepared by Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u32	So colorful. Thank you for the floor. It's so colorful. It's them or them, left, right, we're not. Prime Minister, what was was was. But the billions paid to the solar barons were approved a few months ago. A few months ago. Do we really need to bring up the stew footage where we fought against paying off the billions, and when did you approve? Don't tell me it's not our fault. Clear! It's your job.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u33	Thank you. Next in line, Mr Laudát, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u34	Thank you. I was inspired by Prime Minister Sobotka. On March 29, 2012, the Young Front Today, came out a staff called politik and officials are weak, so the influence of godfathers will survive. Among other things, it says: In the case of politics, the presumption of guilt applies as in civilized states. It can be bitter for individuals, but it can be preserved and healing for the system. Apparently, then, we've lost our instincts for conservation and recovery. The author of this statement is Martin Komárek. Richard Dolejš May 19, 2012 for Diary. cz in the case David Rath: In the policy of ČSSD, however, the principle of presumption of guilt always applies. As for the regional elections 2012, in the Czech Radio on 15 June 2012, a Mr Sobotka, then a Member of the House, said: People expect us to always stand up to all possible scandals clearly, without squirming, and respond to them quickly by drawing personal responsibility. People rightly expect us to respond more honestly and in a more consistent way than they do, for example. ODS or TOP 09. As you can see, it will probably only remain with promises and legitimate unfulfilled expectations. And Adam Rykala was in some kind of a case: With all the votes we agreed at the Bureau that he should leave the ČSSD. He's being charged with a felony, and in our party, he's paying for the presumption of guilt. And this way, as far as the presumption of guilt from the workshop and the Social Democrats' mouth is concerned, I could read here for about half an hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u35	Thank you. Before we continue the debate, I will read the apologies. From 19 o'clock to the end of the day for personal reasons, Mr Karel Fiedler apologises, from 19 o'clock for health reasons, Mrs Putnová apologizes, from 19 o'clock to the end of the day for working reasons, Mr Pavel Kováčik apologises. Furthermore, from 19 o'clock to the end of the day, Minister Jurečka apologizes for family reasons. We will therefore continue the debate now. Mr Štětina is duly signed in, Mrs Němcová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u36	Good evening. Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Madam, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, do not expect me to insult anyone and call him a fraud, a liar and in other words. I didn't sign this meeting. Why? Since everyone knows that this case, which is old, as we have heard here from Minister Babiš, has been involved in several years of x-checks that have found nothing or some, i.e. minimal error, I would have expected that we could discuss this when we had the conclusions of Olaf or the conclusions of the Police of the Czech Republic. If these conclusions are negative for the Minister, I believe that he is not a social case. They will certainly return the 50 million, unlike those who have wasted many European subsidies and have not returned them. So, on the other hand, I am glad that this meeting is because I will now consistently demand that cases which are unambiguous and even the Police of the Czech Republic be revised and assessed in the Hradec Králové Region, which means digitalisation of RTG workplaces, lead to the court, but unfortunately the independent court has decided somehow that nothing has happened. So I'll take the job with it and very well-known cases, such as a bakery in Choustník's Hradiště, which is saved for several years and where there are a number of reports to order, and I'll want these cases to actually be thoroughly investigated. I will therefore ask the audit authority of the Ministry of Finance to make this known to the Ministry of Regional Development, so that there will be real order in European subsidies and that there will be no similar cases. I have to say, when the Prime Minister spoke, and we haven't spoken in a long time, I have to tell him the truth. What he said here was indeed the case. I've been here since 2010 and I've been a member of the coalition as well as a member of the opposition. And I really must say that this government has behaved quite differently and better than the government has been since 2010. And I'm not talking about the government that started in 2006. Thank you for your attention, and I don't think I've upset you and offended anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u37	Thank you. Mr Kučera will speak with a point of fact and Mrs Němcová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u38	Hello, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I would only briefly respond to my previous speaker's performance. I think that the procedure for the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister to proceed is quite clear. The Minister of Finance should leave politics, cleanse himself, and return to politics after everything has been examined. That's how Prime Minister Sobotka spoke as an opposition MP when he called on coalition ministers to do so. I don't think we'll see it coming from Minister Andrej Babiš. We've heard that before. However, I would have two questions for the Prime Minister. And the answer would really be yes, no. The first question is: Dear Prime Minister, do you realize that you have a man in the government who is suspected of tax fraud? I'd like your answer. Yes, no. Do you realize that? Yes? No? And my second question is, Prime Minister, do you realize that you have full responsibility for having a man in government who is suspected of tax fraud? And once again, a simple answer would be yes, no. Dear Prime Minister, thank you in advance for your answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, then, Mrs Němcová. Mr Bendl will be ready. And until the end of the day, Mr Okamura apologizes for his work. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u40	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would like to start by saying a few words about how the opening speech of Mr. First Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance of Andrej Babiš affected me. I will leave aside what has been criticized, i.e. his illogical inclusion of his appearance in the opening of this meeting. That's already been criticized enough here. My impression is that the Minister has basically fulfilled the expectations that all journalists, journalists, people who deal with this problem and who have written: It will eventually be that Mr Babiš will come to the House, he will set up his 30 or 40 pages, which will eventually tell us how much it will be, and the 29 or 39 pages will relate to something completely different from the problem that is caused by the meeting itself. He's gonna wrap everything in it, he's gonna bring down the living, the dead. And in the end, from what he's actually saying, we'll know the minimum about our own case. So in this, the Minister fulfilled his expectations. I can say that the artistic impression was pitiful, and that if he wanted to convince the Chamber of Deputies, to surprise the Czech public somehow, he should have come up with something more fundamental. Something to surprise me with. Not with everyone saying, "We know how it's gonna be." We've got him figured out, read, and he can't do anything else. He showed that he really couldn't do anything else. That's the first point, the impression it gave me. The second point is that it reminded me of something. And it reminded me of the case that was then involving Prime Minister Stanislav Gross. The awkward things he was making excuses for, he was coming to us with money bags, Uncle Vik, burned with a note, I don't know what was going on back then. I don't even want to remember because it wasn't nice at all. Well, in this case, it's like a copycat. I quote you from 2013 from an interview Mr. Babiš gave to the weekly Respekt. He described his relationship with the Capi Nest project as follows: I lent the company over 400 miles. To build a farm, but I don't know the owner's name. I only rented one building there, that's all, he said. At the additional question of Respekt that it is strange to lend to someone who knows nothing, he added: I don't know from the head, I think some lawyers have a farm. In March 2016, he remembered who was behind the farm but refused to publish the name. He said: There came an investor who did not wish to be appointed, and it was accepted. He said it on TV on Prima. But before this broadcast on Prima, he told us all that it wasn't about Agrofert at all, that it was some company he didn't even know, from his holding. And then he told us that he suddenly remembered, but that he wouldn't tell who it was. He said on TV, I'll tell you in a week or ten days, I don't know how. But in the meantime, everyone was saying, well, that's clear to us, so he's working on some fairy tale to come before the House and the citizens, and he's telling them something about the fairy tale that his PR advisors put away. So we heard the story today. In fact, I don't care if he transferred or transferred to his children or persons close to him, which, until then, when he brought the company out of Agrofert, was not identifiable, anonymous. So I don't care if it was the real owners, because we still can't figure out whether it's true or not. The question, of course, is why a rich dad wouldn't lend his kids everything he needed to do and cover his kids with anonymous shares for a while, earning 50 miles. from European subsidies, and the ice will expire five years mandatory condition, so again take away your children's property and transfer it back to your company. That, of course, remains a big question. The Minister didn't have the courage to mention any of this. Regardless of what he's writing here, and as the main complaint to the whole case, his once key man, Lukáš Wagenknecht, attaches. I think many of these sentences have already been quoted here, but it's still worth reminding them of. It is Lukáš Wagenknecht that reminds us that the meaning of the subsidy, this subsidy for small and medium-sized enterprises, is that these small and medium-sized enterprises cannot achieve even a bank loan or support from anyone else. If they do not have this form of financial assistance available, then they fall within the programme, which can release the subsidy for a small and medium-sized company. And I have to ask again how it is possible that when it is provided by Agrofert or Mr Babiš, which is essentially the same, a loan of 400 miles. koruna, so how is that company able to reach the grant money? Fairy tales about whether Mr Babiš will return it to someone and put it in his foundation, which is another very perfective circumstance of the whole thing, because at the moment he tells the citizens of the Czech Republic - we are likely to be fined if OLAF finds out that I actually caused a subsidy fraud. And the fine is 50 miles. The amount of the subsidy was CZK, or this was the 50 million, and this fine will be paid by the Czech State. Mr. Babiš is offering that he's 50 miles. He's gonna take it out of his hand and he's gonna put it into his grant, and that's what this whole thing is gonna cover. Well, if you don't find anything special about this procedure, then I must say that everything about this procedure seems strange to me. Firstly, the lying that, as I said, reminds of the upheaval, and colleagues from social democracy should remember where this lying brought their Prime Minister and also how the political party itself paid for it. These dialects, the raising of excuses, lies and clear actions that make no sense and cannot be explained in any way indicate that the First Vice-President of the Government, Andrej Babiš, is not the man to sit in this government. The second question, of course, is whether the Prime Minister, despite all the outbursts he's doing here, criticizing us for the much smaller problems of our ministers, so if he's going to keep Minister Babiš now. He will probably keep it, as we have heard from his statement, because it has also shown the pressure the Prime Minister is under. You will remember that a week ago or a few days ago Miloš Zeman was visiting the President of the Republic. When he left the Chamber of Deputies, the journalists asked him because the Chapi čapí case was already bubbling, so they asked him what the President said. And Mr. President, now I'm going to paraphrase it a little bit, not exactly his answer, but it was in the sense that it's under his discernment, because the amounts that relate to millions or 50 million, he doesn't solve. He solves things that are about that billion or over one billion. And it's like he just happened to say that an example of such a case that is above the one billion is OKD-related stuff, which clearly pointed to the Prime Minister. He clearly pointed out and said: I stand beside Andrej Babiš. He could also tell us that he was standing by his side because the first privatization of Unipetrol, which would also be of great interest to all of us how it was actually going, was the current president here and then Prime Minister Miloš Zeman covered it. Well, that was just above the one billion. Mr. President, if he wanted to, he could handle this thing if he wanted to. But we are not in this matter now. We are at Chapi's čapí, which is why I think Andrej Babiš has clearly understood that he has a strong ally in the President of the Republic, holding various meetings with him at different levels. And the Prime Minister is being put under pressure because after the Lanese coup and after further demonstrations of how the President shoots at the Czech Social Democratic Party, the Prime Minister does not know how to deal effectively with this pressure. He chose one. He chose to defend something hypocritical here that he couldn't defend. He chose to pay off him and his political party, at the nearest election it would show up on this strategy of covering up bad guys he doesn't have to cover for, and eventually he's gonna pay for it. [[19.30 hours]] If he chose this path, the opposition position in this House is not enough to prevent it. We're here to describe things, to ask questions, to want answers. But I understand from today's meeting that the Prime Minister is willing to cover this issue at the cost of damage to his own party and his own future. I take it that's a crucial conclusion for me from today's meeting. And the last sentence is that all of you could wonder if all these lies and excuses are truly worthy of being the things you can defend and behind which you can stand before our voters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u41	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Novotný is registered. Mr Bendl will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u42	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I am actually responding to a passage by my colleague, Mrs Němcová, which mentioned the form of the speech here. I'm deeply impressed, really. Probably the most horrible impression of the long applause that has been heard here. So I wanted to say to my colleagues from YES: You applauded your speech on a level: Bohuš kicked the kids' carousel, he didn't exactly have a pencil, so someone else signed it. Let's have a look, there's an ostrich, and there's a horse for Vlastička, and we're all going there, and it's great, because he's already bought us all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u43	Thank you. Mr Bendl, now duly applied for. After that, Mr. Svoboda. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u44	Good evening, good evening. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not be as funny as my colleague. I will try to focus on the facts and on what really happened and maybe even answer some questions from my colleagues, the absent Member, whose name does not come up now, who asked here how it is possible that we are only talking about this now, why we did not talk about this earlier. Yes, I admit that, together with my colleague Jermanová, we once agreed in the regional council, when it was still under the ODS, the rules - across the political spectrum, I note, I am not saying this in any bad way, across the political spectrum, the Social Democrats, the Communists, all - have voted in favour of this - the rules of drawing from the regional operational programme of Central Bohemia. These funds were earmarked within the framework of less than CZK 15 billion, of which the part of which the Vice-President of the Government of Babiš mentioned here was set aside in the first call of approximately CZK 200 million. It is actually the only area to support business, the entire ROP, I say, was not allocated to the direction of business support, but of the 15 billion roughly 200 million crowns was intended to enhance the quality of tourism in Central Bohemia. On the contrary, there were pressures on us to allocate more funds. That didn't happen. Across the political spectrum, there was an agreement that we wanted to promote tourism and quality improvement in Central Bohemia, and that we wanted to create some conditions for this when the funds were already here. On the basis of the documents received from the Authority, the Regional Council Committee then approved subsidies and support for tourism, as has been said here, and the Governor signed. The Governor had an obligation to sign, please point out that. If the Governor hadn't signed, he'd be subject to criminal prosecution. After all, David Rath, who came later, did not want to sign some grant titles, even though they had passed the Regional Council, and for as long as - almost a year delayed some of the projects that he eventually had to sign under pressure from the European Commission. Because some mayors who had approved the projects went through the selection procedure, and Governor David Rath did not want to sign the grant of the aid, which was delayed, of course the supplier or the applicant received the project in an unsolvable situation, because the project, for example, competed for a year and a half before and the prices were elsewhere. It made huge problems especially in Salty and Mladá Boleslav. Yes, there were conditions, and I would like to stress that...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u45	I'm asking you, colleagues and colleagues, to keep it down. I understand it's a late hour, but let's understand what's being lectured here. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u46	Yes, there were conditions, journalists often ask me that, or somewhere I saw it written that it was money for the rich. No, it was money for small and medium-sized enterprises and it was an obligation to declare honestly that the applicant concerned was a representative of a small or medium-sized company. And I can read you the terms that they actually made a commitment to fulfill. The beneficiaries of the aid in this area were: entrepreneurs under § 2 para. 2 of Act No. 513/1991 Sb., who meet the definition of a small and medium-sized enterprise, pursue business activities for at least two years and operate in tourism. That was one area. Second: entrepreneurs pursuant to § 2 para. 2 of Act No. 513/1991 Coll., the Commercial Code, which meets the definition of a small and medium-sized enterprise, operates in the field of tourism and has a business history of less than two years - in parentheses: only for projects carried out in municipalities of over 2000 inhabitants. So the applicant in question, I suppose, and I actually want to thank the Deputy Prime Minister for telling who the shares belonged to today because even the journalists asked me if they were mine. I am so glad that the Prime Minister himself has refuted that I have nothing to do with Agrofert or his family. I'm not saying this in a bad way, I'm just glad this place fell down. And the aid was determined, with a maximum of 40 per cent of the total - from spending on the whole project, and it was possible to raise it up to 60 for small enterprises, with a maximum of 50 per cent for medium-sized enterprises, with the ceiling, the maximum of the money that could be raised for one project, being CZK 50 million. The amount of CZK 100 million was covered by the fact that the applicants for the Tea Nest announced or had in the project that they would invest a much higher amount than CZK 100 million. I also read somewhere in the paper that it's 54, then 56. Neither is true. It was the 50 million crowns, because that was the maximum that could be obtained. Now, the answer to the question of the fellow Member, who asked why we are only talking about this now, how this is possible. This is because the supervisory authorities had no authority to find out who was behind the anonymous shares. Unfortunately, they did not, and it was therefore not possible to engage in this debate at all. Because it is the subject of OLAF's investigation today, perhaps the Police of the Czech Republic, whether there has been an infringement of the provisions I was talking about, and therefore whether there has been no support provider, in this case the Central Bohemia Region, or if you want a regional operational programme, the ROP, if it has not been deceived, and if this is therefore not a fraud. This is the debate. Someone else really has to judge that. Vice-President of the Government, and it's been dropped a few times, he's basically got himself involved. At one point, he said, "I don't know who it belongs to. Then he said it's my project because I made it up. Then he says, "I'll publish the shareholders." Then he says, "I don't know anything about it. And today he says they're his close relatives. I'm assuming they've been in the travel business for at least two years now, and they're fulfilling this condition. At least I hope the Deputy Prime Minister is somehow fully aware of that. [[19.40 hours]] And let me make another comment on the anonymous shares when the Prime Minister here was saying what a problem it was and that it was already a long time ago that social democracy pointed to it, and he honestly admitted that it was in the spring of 2013, that is, at the time of Nečasův' government, when it was Nečasův' government that pushed through just in the spring of 2013 the end of the possibility of hiding behind anonymous shares. But I cannot on this occasion, because you have been there by many of you who are attending the Chamber of Deputies meeting, when I read the coalition treaty and the government statement, where coalition MPs or coalition parties undertake not to support and reject the fact that someone who does not disclose ownership should receive a subsidy or some public support. It literally states that you will avoid granting aid and subsidies to unknown owners of companies, and you have already violated this government's programming statement twice already. For the first time in the Energy Act, where I drew attention here to the fact that the amendment that came was small and short, but allows applicants in the agrarian sector, I point out and point out, not to disclose ownership in obtaining subsidies. [[emphatically:]] You agreed that, honourable government MPs. And the second time it was in the Public Procurement Act, where foreign companies, unlike the Czechs, do not have to disclose their ownership and just a solemn statement a la Chapi nest. All we have to do is make an honest statement, and we do. I'm here for the account, there was a debate about it on the Public Administration Committee, he said it was unfair and that the government should have tried harder and explained this exception, because it simply and well brings the problems that we are working with now. Twice, my friends, government MPs, you've already violated this in this parliamentary term. So we're back to the stork's nests.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u47	Thank you. The first point of fact is made by Mrs Černochová, after whom Mr Sklenák. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I think all of us who have stayed here this long have only today understood the electoral duty that the YES movement had on its billboards. And the claim was to make sure our children weren't ashamed of us. So I think we're all in the context that Mr. Vice Prime Minister here was talking about, and they really understand that children are more than a state, a company, and everything else to him. But I wanted to ask if it would be possible for one of the ČSSD colleagues, probably the President of the Sklenák Club, to invite the Prime Minister to this meeting. I really find it very undignified that we're here at quarter to eight, Minister Babiš hasn't been here for a long time, he's lost three or four performances, he could have obviously watched it in his office. But we're dealing with such a serious matter here. There are questions about both Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš and Mr. Prime Minister. And he's not here. I therefore prosit politely through the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Bartošek to ask the President of the ČSSD Chamber of Deputies to ask the Prime Minister for his presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u49	Okay. That's what I do. But before I give the floor, Mr. Chairman, I'll read the note. [[Chairman Sklenák is standing by the microphone.]] Marian Jurečka apologizes for family reasons until the end of the day. Furthermore, from 19.15 to the end of the day, Mr Vyzula apologizes for family reasons. Furthermore, from 19.30 to midnight, for work reasons, Mr Karel Schwarzenberg apologizes. Now, your point of order, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u50	Well, I've applied with priority rights, but maybe I'll just take the two minutes. Mrs Černochová, by your means, I would like to say that the Prime Minister had to depart because he is on his way to France, where he will be meeting with the French President and Prime Minister tomorrow, including on the protection of European borders, which is certainly very important in the context of this Chamber of Deputies. But you have seen that the Prime Minister took part in this point at the beginning and also stepped forward and approached this point very responsibly. We've been acting here for more than four hours. I think we've learned a lot of interesting things. [[Laughs in the right side of the hall.]] We didn't know anything. But I don't think we're gonna be able to move this debate any further today. I can say for myself, I also told Minister Babiš in the media, I was particularly interested in two answers to my questions. They've been answered in some way. And for my part, the next step I'll be waiting for is the results of the police investigation and the results of Olaf's investigation. And until then, I don't think I'm gonna be able to make the kind of conclusion I'm gonna have after closing these investigations. For this reason, I would like to propose that we stop discussing this point pending the publication of the results of the police investigation in the case of the Cape Nest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u51	If I understand correctly, this is a procedural proposal. [[Yes.]] Thank you. As this is a procedural proposal, I will vote without debate. [[Mr Stanjure reporting on the right.]] Assuming you want to make an amendment to the procedural proposal, I'll give you my word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u52	Thanks for the word. I have a counterproposal to interrupt the meeting for five minutes. I know that government MPs, at the speed of police investigation, imagine that this might be the end of a police investigation in the next parliamentary term. You'd like that. So if you need to rest, I suggest we cancel the meeting for five minutes, and then we can continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u53	Okay. [[Member Kalousek reporting.]] Again, is this an amendment to the procedural proposal? [[Yes.]] Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u54	Of course. This is an alternative amendment. I suggest we abort the meeting for six minutes. [[Fun in the hall.]] And on that occasion, I want to ask if you're seriously joking. This isn't the question, and you heard it, this isn't the question of whether the police are investigating a crime or OLAF is investigating a crime. The question is whether it is viable that during the investigation the person suspected of being a grant fraud should be the guarantor of subsidies for the Czech Republic. In itself, it just rules out your counterproposal. So please, let's change our minds in six minutes. At the same time, I would also like to ask you, Mr Sklenák, through Mr President, whether you, as myself and as Prime Minister, have heard the Vice-President of the Government lie on a microphone. Because a guy who said a month ago that he didn't really know who owned those anonymous shares said today that they were close people. So he's just a convicted liar! [[President: Mr President, I am sorry.]] What else do you think this OLAF guy is gonna investigate? On this fact?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u55	Your amendment to the procedural proposal has been made, which means... I've logged the application for your check-out, and I will do so, and I'll ask you to sign up again with your cards. We will therefore proceed as the amendments have come, the first being a six-minute interruption, the second being a five-minute interruption, and then a procedural proposal by President Sklenák. [[19.50 hours]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour of interrupting this meeting for six minutes, raise his hand and press the button. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 10. 119 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 47, against 56. This proposal was rejected. Next, we will vote on the proposal that this meeting be suspended for five minutes. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 11. 119 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 45, against 54. This proposal was rejected. We will therefore now vote on the procedural proposal by President Sklenák, and that is the interruption of this meeting until OLAF's conclusion is published. So I would like to clarify the motion for a vote on your proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u56	I would like to clarify: pending the publication of the outcome of the police inquiry in the case of the Stork Nest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u57	Thank you. [[Screams out of the diaper about non-voiceability.]] If you object to the motion for a resolution, you must speak to the microphone and raise an objection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u58	I would really ask my colleague Sklenák too much to make proposals that are in line with some law in this country. What kind of publication of the results of the investigation? If this were to be a release to Olaf, he might tell us something, but the investigation could either end in prosecution or termination, and we won't know either of them. So let's not pretend that someone can publish it. Let's not look like that!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u59	Since the motion for a resolution is tabled... Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u60	If you wish to vote, Mr President, I object to your action because the House will not know what it is voting on. He won't know what time limit he's voting on, how it'll be verified that the time has come. If Mr Sklenák had said to be imprisoned, we would have known that we could verify the exact moment, but that is simply out of the question. That's unvoteable, and I object. And please follow at least the elementary rules and laws. You're not doing it now! I really don't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u61	Believe me, I am trying to get to the end so that we can vote on the proposal. Because there's a negotiation going on to define the proposal we're going to discuss, so I'm interrupting the meeting for five minutes and waiting...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u62	I object to your action because you have now complied with President Stanjura's motion, which the House has rejected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u63	I can call a recess from the Rules of Procedure. I am declaring a five-minute recess and waiting to see what motion for a resolution we will vote on, or what procedural proposal we will vote on. [[The hearing is suspended from 19.53 am to 19.58 pm.]] The time for a break is up, and I will ask you, Members, to take your seats in your benches. I will ask President Sklenák to clarify his procedural proposal on which we will vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u64	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to clarify my procedural proposal after the consultations which have been carried out, i.e. to interrupt the discussion of this point until the outcome of olaf's investigation on this matter has been published. As I've been informed, this is clearly conditional, because those decisions are being made public.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u65	Thank you. President Kalousek, with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u66	I would like to put forward a counter-proposal, Mr President, to suspend the sitting of this meeting until the Prime Minister has publicly admitted that his first Vice-President is a liar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u67	I have always said that it would be good to save ourselves from mutual invectives during the debate and proposals. This is also true here. Anyway, it's a procedural proposal as it was made. That means, I am registering two proposals - one is President Kalousek and then President Sklenák. First, we will vote on President Kalousek's procedural proposal. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of President Kalousek's procedural proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 12. 119 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 20, against 65. This proposal was rejected. I'm still registering the application for your check-out. Before I vote on another procedural proposal, I'm going to sign you off and ask you to sign up with your cards again. The order has settled. I therefore now initiate the vote on the procedural proposal of President Sklenák. Whoever is in favour of the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 13. 120 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 67, against 48. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been adopted. There is no open debate. I'm sorry if this is about the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u68	For screen recording only. I'm not questioning the vote, I'm pinning myself on my colleague Kalousek's proposal. [[Loud laugh.]] I voted 'no'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u69	The debate is not open, that is, with priority rights only - President Laudat.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u70	Thank you for the floor. [[Members are rising to leave.]] I just want to say one thing about the course of today's meeting - that I am very disappointed with the behaviour of social democracy and KDU-ČSL, because we expect you to actually keep your promises that you will stick to the spirit of your statements -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u71	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, but the House of Deputies' meeting isn't over yet. [[Voices from the O.R. It's interrupted.]] It's not interrupted. I haven't interrupted the meeting yet. I'm only going to ask you if you have any comment on the vote in progress. Mr Bendl has a reminder of the vote being taken. The debate is not open.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u72	I just want to say that I don't know what your statements are worth, your promises and your behavior. We had high expectations, and it turned out the way it always did. I hope your voters notice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u73	Please, Mr Bendl on the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u74	I'm sorry, it really doesn't happen to me. I voted "no," and I have a "yes" on high. I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u75	Are you questioning the vote? [[Yes.]] Okay. So there is a motion to challenge the vote. I'm registering the check-out request. So I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards again. I note Mr Bendl's request that he calls into question the last vote. First, we will vote on this objection. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this objection. Who's against it? It's a vote with order number 14. 115 Members of Parliament registered. Objection received. In that case, we shall repeat the vote. We will vote on the procedural proposal made by President Sklenák, as has been said here. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of Mr Sklenák's proposal. I'm registering the check-out request. In that case, I'm sorry. I'm signing you all off, and I'm asking you to sign up with your cards again. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for a resolution, as presented by President Sklenák, to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? It's a vote with order number 16. 115 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 63, against 48. The result was given consent. I can only give a word if you wish to comment on the vote in progress. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u76	As instructed by the President, allow me to take a vote. I mean, my political faction respects that result, that each of us will simply take home his responsibility for his vote by Minister Herman starting with the President of the Sklenák. Now it's not the responsibility of Minister Babiš, his lies that you've heard with your own ears, and his behavior, but it's the responsibility of every one of you you're taking away, and your own decisions. I wish you a beautiful and blessed Easter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-043-01-001-001.u77	I am interrupting the negotiations of this meeting as decided. I wish you a pleasant rest of the day.
