ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-012-041.u1	41. Government bill on consumer credit / House print 679/ - first reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal will also be presented in this case by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-012-041.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government's bill on consumer credit prepared by the Ministry of Finance, which I now present to you for discussion, comprehensively regulates in one law all consumer credit, both consumption credit and housing-related loans. This law also implements the European Housing Loan Directive. The bill also responds to resolution 367/2014 of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, in which the government was called upon to tighten the requirements imposed on non-bank providers and credit intermediaries and to create conditions for effective supervision of the activities of such persons. The submitted government bill on consumer credit therefore strengthens consumer protection, a sector where their rights are often damaged in the long term. At the same time, the company as a whole bears considerable costs. Important elements of the law are, among other things, the transfer of supervisory powers over non-bank segments of the credit market newly to the Czech National Bank, tightening requirements for professional and financial equipment of distributors or, for example, limiting penalty fees for late repayment. The position of persons who, for various reasons, want or need an early repayment of the agreed loan commitment is also improving. Some credit providers' delinquency is linked to significant sanctions, from which we are promising a rapid deterrent effect, and thus an overall improvement in the conditions in this long-term problematic financial market sector. The new regulation of the credit sector will trigger the need to amend several related laws. The draft of these amendments is the subject of a separate draft amendment law. Both the basic conceptual basis and the proposals for specific provisions of the Act were thoroughly and repeatedly consulted by the Ministry of Finance with all relevant players on the market. There is agreement in the general public on the need for this change. The political debate prior to the adoption of that resolution by the Chamber of Deputies also expressed strong demand after the proposed adjustment. Not only to fulfil our commitments to the European Union, but, above all, to meet the objectives of the proposal, it is important to adopt a new consumer credit law as soon as possible. Therefore, take you in accordance with § 91, par. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies allow me to request a reduction in the time limit for the consideration of the proposal in the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies to 30 days. Thank you for your attention and support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-012-041.u3	Thank you. I will now ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Jaroslav Klaška, to take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-012-041.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, let me drop by a little bit in my intelligence report on this government bill on consumer credit. Consumer loans that are not loans for housing are regulated by Act No.145/2010 Coll., on Consumer Credit, as amended. This law, which is still in force, constitutes a product regulation, that is to say, it lays down the rights and obligations relating to the consumer credit product. Rather, it does not regulate institutional and prudential issues. From the point of view of the material set out in the European MCD Directive, housing loans as a specific contractual type are not yet regulated in domestic law. As has already been said, the House has already dealt with the issue of out-of-bank consumer credit in this parliamentary term. For the first time in the discussion of the parliamentary proposal, House press no. 41, which dealt with the issue of the so-called usury, or the RPSN by some kind of jet lag. The loans were divided into two groups and the annual cost rate could range according to this proposal. The motion was not accepted. Since then, many negotiations have taken place with the involvement of various organizations and institutions, which meet with extra-bank consumer credit in their work, such as Man in Need, financial arbiter, Czech National Bank, Banking Association and, of course, Ministry of Finance. As the Minister has already mentioned, in his resolution number 367/2014 on press 41, we have expressed ourselves, namely the Chamber of Deputies, the view that predatory and odd practices on the non-bank credit providers market are a very serious negative socio-economic phenomenon that threatens many citizens. At the same time, the House called on the Government to process and submit a proposal to the Chamber of Deputies for legal regulation, which would significantly tighten the conditions for entry into the credit business, not only by consumer, non-bank providers, and introduce effective supervision over their activities. [[17.50 hours]] Among the main negative effects in the non-bank segment of retail credit markets, both on the basis of sectoral supervisory reports and financial arbitraries, consultation with representatives of consumer associations, consumer complaints addressed to the Ministry of Finance can be included in particular: the lack of clarity of the consumer credit market, the large scope of the grey zone of providers and intermediaries, the unclear responsibility of individual cells in distribution, and thus the difficult enforcement of the applicable regulation of defined rights and obligations by supervisory authorities. Furthermore, abuse of the social distress of debtors, unfair, misleading, aggressive business or business practices in the negotiation of loans, distorting the cost of credit products, pre-contractual payments, etc. Non-compliance, virtually. non-compliance with obligations to verify the creditworthiness of the debtor. Weak regulatory requirements for entry into the sector. Performance of authorisation and supervision activities by non-specialized public authorities such as trade offices, Czech Trade Inspections etc. and predatory practices related to consumer default, i.e. the use of hedging titles: executor records, wage withholding agreements, etc. The Government's bill aims to transpose the relevant European legislation in order to strengthen consumer protection in the housing lending segment, improve the quality of services provided on the retail credit market and reduce the occurrence of irresponsible lending, harmonise the regulation on the distribution of credit to consumers and bring it closer to the principles of regulation in other financial market sectors. Specific measures. Obligation to register providers of non-bank loans by the Czech National Bank. Registration shall be subject to professional competence, capital adequacy, integrity and credibility. Method of verification and institutional assurance of proficiency verification. Method of organising the authorisation and supervision activities of the Czech National Bank. The method of the penalty procedure and the possibility of withdrawing the licence under certain conditions. Establishment of regulation and definition of real estate for their financing. Integration of carry-over loans within the scope of the law. Banking mortgage regulation. [[unintelligible]] Regulation of early repayment of housing loans and other measures. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-012-041.u5	Thank you, too. I am opening a general debate, in which I note one factual remark by Mr Fiedler and the proper application by Mr Votava. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-012-041.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would only respond to the petitioner's proposal. Motion to shorten the deadline to 30 days. When I looked at the scope of this material, this law, which has 480 or 490 pages, the House's press, the very text of the law is 100 pages, so really shortening the deadline for such a complex law, although we have already discussed it here on other occasions, I consider it unreasonable. I would like to propose and call on Members not to accept this proposal to shorten the time limit and to leave such complex issues that burden our society, it is a complicated matter, a really standard time to discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-012-041.u7	Thank you, too. Mr Václav Votava, now duly applied for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-012-041.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, I have some doubts as to whether to start my speech. Of course, I'd hate to restrict the school committee, and I'd hate for you to interrupt me sometime in my speech that it's 6:00. So...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-012-041.u9	Unfortunately, I'm going to have to interrupt you because we have a fixed point at 6:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-012-041.u10	So I'm willing to give up now so I can have enough time to say my whole commentary on this coherently so that I don't have to be interrupted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-012-041.u11	Member, the matter is quite complex, because no one else is entered into the debate. If someone does not sign up for the debate, the item will normally continue to be discussed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-012-041.u12	Okay, so I'll talk. So let me also comment on this consumer credit law. I want to say that the new law is certainly going in the right direction, and I would also like to point out that it is basically responding to the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies from last year or previous year. The House called on the Government to adopt this material in connection with the deterioration of consumer rights in the provision of consumer credit and in connection with the usury practices of certain non-bank providers and to stand up to it. It therefore responds to this proposal, in particular to loan-taking practices and the conduct of certain non-banking entities, so the aim is also to unify credit arrangements for consumers, consumer loans, but also mortgage loans, and to define stricter rules for the granting of loans. I would like to say that the issue of providing consumer credit has already become such an evergreen. Social democracy, although in opposition at the time, sought to strengthen the position of the consumer, such a balanced position of the consumer towards the provider, which has not always been there. Of course, debts are to be paid, in any case, no one is questioning this, but the mutual relationship should be balanced as much as possible. At the time, we promoted, among other things, the authorisation of the Government to set maximum levels for the RPSN. We have proposed restrictions on the aggregate amount of the contractual penalty in the event of default by the debtor. But we have also proposed restrictions on the decision-making of the dispute through arbitration procedures. This was also the parliamentary proposal for social democracy, or Members for social democracy, in 2012, but it was returned to the Chamber of Deputies for work. Since the Chamber of Deputies was dissolved at that time, it was not re-submitted to the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to say that there was also a seminar held in the House, which was very much visited. Seminar under the patronage of the Budget Committee with the participation of Members, with the participation of the Ministry of Finance, the Czech National Bank, as well as loan providers both bank and non-bank. They were also consumer protection organisations, but the general public was also represented there. And I dare say that a number of comments were then projected or reflected in the new credit law for consumers that we are discussing today. In the market of this segment of loans, consumer credit is now close to 60,000 providers or intermediaries of these loans. They are sufficient to carry out this activity today only a trade license. Nobody checks them. Of course, they can be controlled by the Trade Office or the Czech Trade Inspection Office, but there are basically so many providers that there are no options from the Trade Offices and from the Czech Trade Inspection Office. The fact that weird things happen there, the confusion between individual loan applicants, that there is an immoral negotiation, I don't want to say for all providers, but for some certainly, the truth is. Therefore, the government proposal also requires that providers be licensed and controlled in the future - by whom other than the Czech National Bank? I believe that the Czech National Bank is a regulator, a natural regulator with experience in the banking market, and that it should be the Czech National Bank that will issue a licence to the entity that wants to provide these consumer loans, and, of course, as a regulator it will also exercise control over these entities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-012-041.u13	I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, unfortunately, as I announced in advance, it is 18 hours and I am forced to interrupt this point. Anyway, as I've listened to your post, it's very good, so I don't think it'll hurt to hear it again next time. [[Laughs in the hall.]] It is 18 o'clock, and as has been said in advance, I am interrupting this point on the grounds that we have a school law for 18 o'clock. Before we continue the negotiations, I thank the Minister of Finance and the rapporteur, and I will draw up a note. From 18 o'clock to the end of the day, Mrs Matušovská apologizes for personal reasons. So, according to the program, I'm opening up another point that we've had firmly classified, and that's
