ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u1	223. Government bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended /German press 839/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 The point was interrupted on Tuesday 12. 7. before opening the general debate. [[Short silence.]] Now, I'm sorry, but I'm not quite sure who's gonna bring this up for the government, because I've got an overkill from the Agriculture Minister Marian Jurečka, who, besides being crossed out, isn't present. [[An agreement off the microphone that the Minister of Agriculture said so. Only the rapporteur, Mr Kalousek, is at the rapporteur's table.]] Yes, however, the reference report has gone away, so we are here before the debate is opened. So I am opening it with this, and I am asking who is reporting for the debate. [[Member Kalousek off the microphone: The intelligence report has not yet been made.]] Oh, sorry. I apologise to the rapporteur. The news report will therefore be heard. I therefore ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Everyone understands that this has necessarily put you in a mess because the draft concerns tax legislation and tax legislation is in charge of the finance minister in each country. However, in this case, the Minister of Finance is primarily the main beneficiary of this draft, so he wiggled out of it, and the Government's resolution imposes a justification for the Minister of Agriculture. And because he is also a beneficiary of this draft, even a government resolution allows the Prime Minister to delegate to someone other than the two beneficiaries, both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Agriculture. We'll get to that. Now, let me just remind you that the refund on excise duty on mineral oils, slang-called green oil, was abolished by this Chamber of Deputies by the amendment to the Consumer Tax Act in 2011. It was abolished not as an austerity measure. It was abolished as an administratively costly distortion, which undoubtedly led to relatively massive tax evasion. [[The Agriculture Minister is coming to the rapporteur's desk.]] In the fight against tax evasion, we can choose different paths. One path is now being applied by the government. It's the way of control at the edge of the raging. It is the way to increase administrative duties, burdens and suspicions of basically everyone. Another way is to remove exceptions, distortions, simplification and, above all, to remove gaps that lead to tax evasion. Of course, we can argue about which of these two approaches is more effective. However, we may not argue that exceptions and distortions lead to evasion. So it is quite smiling that the government, which has entered its shield in the fight against tax evasion, at a time when it is a benefit for the private interests of the Minister of Finance, especially for Agrofert, does not suddenly mind distortion, exceptions are introduced and green oil has been re-established by this government. Established for plant production, and now we have on the table a draft that introduces this relief, an exception, and an animal production. [[10.10 hours]] Allow me, as rapporteur, to guide you very briefly at the heart of the proposal for this amendment. In 2015, the Ministry of Agriculture informed the government of the risks of animal production, it must be said that the petitioner did not bother to familiarise the Chamber of Deputies with this justification, and proposed to introduce a return to the so-called "Department House" as a solution to eliminating these risks. green diesel also for animal production. The rate of refund is to be applied in the same way as for plant production at a flat rate of CZK 4 385 per thousand litres of used mineral oils in animal production and the Ministry of Agriculture estimates that it will cover around thousands of new operators operating in animal production. For public budgets it will mean a cost, it is a balance sheet non-selection, i.e. for public budgets this will mean a loss, the processor calculates a loss of approximately CZK 385.3 million, of which CZK 350.2 million for the state budget and CZK 35.1 million for the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure. For the next time, I recommend to the petitioner when he estimates the impact on public budgets and he's fair enough to write more than one number behind the decimal, if possible, it looks a lot more credible. The introduction of this refund will also represent the need to increase the number of employees of the tax administrator, it probably does not overlook this, it correlations with my introductory sentence that green oil is an administratively demanding distortion, i.e. it will need an increase in the number of employees of the tax administrator, which in this case Customs administration, by about 15 employees, but here we have no decimal point, it is for the entire employee, and the operating costs of the tax administrator will increase by about CZK 1.2 million, one-time by CZK 9.2 million. I am simply stating the substance of the proposal, and I am not now assessing it, I dare say that it is not a professionally founded decision, but it is just a political decision, another state subsidy to agriculture from taxpayers' pockets of approximately CZK 400 million per year, including administrative costs. In addition, given the nature of the underlying and the experience that the tax administrator has with green diesel, this is also an extension of the scope for legalising potential tax evasion. At the time I worked at the Ministry of Finance, the tax administrator estimated tax evasion of around 70 to 80 percent of the total legal relief. Let me say a few words about the quality of the base. I would like to say that the quality of the proposal and its justification are very poor, whether from a factual or argumentative point of view, arguments often contradict each other. Allow me to make a few comments. There is no analysis of the current impact of green diesel on the development of plant production and at the same time lacks a key basis for the Ministry of Agriculture, or at least an annotation from it, on the basis of which the government has decided on green oil returns also for animal production, but after all, it is only about CZK 400 million. I do not understand the logic on the basis of which the material claims that the around 400 million will cover the loss that producers had in 2014 and that it will therefore be possible to finance the improvement or achievement of food self-sufficiency in commodities of pigmeat, poultrymeat and eggs, increase the profitability of beef and milk production, increase the number of cuts of certain livestock species, improve the development of soil structure, including increased humus content in soil, and increase air and nature protection with the spread of grazings for animals. If only poultry had a loss of 400 million in 2014, pig meat loss of 1.2 billion and beef profitability was less than 18.5 percent, and milk was a loss of 1.2 billion, then I do not understand the optimism of the promoter, who believes that all he promises to do is make the CZK 400 million out of the green oil. The loss cannot be financed in my opinion if the loss was actually as calculated in the material. I don't have a chance to verify. Especially smiling is the argument that the introduction of green diesel for animal production will contribute to increasing air and nature protection by extending grazing for animals. So, really, for the sake of interest, just to realise with what ease the government is presenting its arguments to us, allow me to present data from the European Commission, according to which agriculture is now involved in total greenhouse gas production in the European Union of around 15 percent, especially because of methane. For comparison, the largest share - 22 percent - emissions now account for energy production and industry in the European Union, which is also 22 percent. The entire transport sector produces 18 per cent of greenhouse gases and 14 per cent in livestock farming. I don't want to argue with whether or not we want to expand the herds now, maybe that's a good thing, but in any case claim that it will contribute to increasing air and environmental protection is simply a colonel, because it objectively contributes to increasing greenhouse gas emissions. Let me now consider one thing to make it clear that I am not fighting against green oil because I would not wish the farmers another CZK 400 million from public budgets. Again, I protest against this in particular because it is a significant distortion that legalizes potential massive tax evasion, plus quite costly for tax authorities. If we didn't do it in the livestock sector, we would have quite a lot of resources at our disposal, I think it's about 1.5 billion in plant production, now I don't have an exact figure in front of me, so 400 million for livestock production, we're somewhere around 2 billion, plus let's add 70 to 80 percent of the tax administrator's total tax evasion, and we're at almost 3 billion CZK, which we would have at our disposal on the other side of the balance, i.e. not with tax relief, but with subsidies, to divide farmers according to the political priorities that the government should have, i.e. especially through small farms. Unfortunately, that is not the case. Green oil will work here as well as the subsidy policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, where the subsidy funds primarily systemically intended to support small farms benefit the most, or their volume is given most by small farmers Andrej Babiš and Radovan Vítek. And in a similar way, it will work with green oil. If we really wanted to support small farms, the grant policy would have to look quite different, but this would not be expected from the current government's policy, which supports rather oligarchisation in Czech agriculture. [[10.20 hours]] It is already evergreen and tradition that once it is a matter of state subsidies to private companies, here, even if it takes place on the other side of the balance sheet, it certainly represents a state subsidy to private companies, it will enter into a conflict of interests and position of acquired property benefits with the state our Minister of Finance, the original, perhaps even the previous profession of agrobaron. [[Laughter from the government bench.]] Perhaps it is quite interesting to follow the legislative trail of this government amendment, when the conflict of interest network, and thus the position of obtaining property benefits with the state, not only the Minister of Finance, but also the Minister of Agriculture, came into our network. 7. 12. 2015 at paragraph 24 of the Government's meeting, the Minister of Agriculture informed the Government of the risks, pushed through the task of the Minister of Finance to process the amendment to the Consumer Tax Act, and the Government took note of the announcement by the First Vice-President of the Government that he did not participate in this point, which he himself processed and discussed, now I am talking about the April meeting, as he feels in a possible conflict of interest, of course a massive conflict of interest. For Mr President, I have already mentioned this very unusual situation where the Government approved and commissioned the Minister of Agriculture to state his reasons in the Chamber of Deputies and commissioned the Prime Minister to entrust someone other than one or the other to the benefit, whether the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Agriculture, who are in undoubted conflict of interest. As far as I know, this assignment has been obtained by the Minister of Transport, and we have a draft signed by the Prime Minister, as with all the drafts, and the Deputy Minister of Finance, Minister Ťok. If you did not know who by signing guarantees the legislative accuracy of this draft, it is the Minister of Transport in tax legislation. There is now a Chamber of Deputies in this situation. I congratulate the Minister of Transport on his courage. In other words, in the current practice of eliminating conflicts of interest of our anti-corruption government, this is how it works. Minister Jurečka initiates, develops and then lets the government approve material which undoubtedly benefits Babiš both him and the Minister of Finance, while at the same time having the government tasked them to turn their property benefits into law. The Minister of Finance will draw up this law which gives him property benefits, submit it to the government, but the government will not participate in this law because it reports a potential conflict of interest. In order to avoid even a shadow of suspicion that Minister Babiš has absolutely nothing to do with the law, although he has processed it and submitted it for approval, he will have such a law signed by the Minister of Transport for Parliament. The question, of course, is whether the public wants to keep this and whether the Chamber of Deputies wants to take it. In front of our eyes, the enforcement of the property benefits of the members of the government that we transform into the law takes place. Then it'll be legal. Of course, no one will be able to blame them. They'll get the benefits by the law. And I am not sure that this is how the democratic Chamber of Deputies should behave. I repeat once again: helping Czech farmers can be done differently and much more efficiently than a return from mineral oils called green oil. But it couldn't be the side effects that the biggest profites the most and that the road would open with massive tax evasion. If you wish to reopen the door with massive tax evasion and want to further improve the biggest, then support this amendment. If you want to help small farmers in another way, support my proposal as rapporteur to reject this amendment and distribute the funds saved in a more efficient and fair way without the risk of tax evasion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u3	I thank the rapporteur for his intelligence report. Before opening the general debate with priority rights, the Minister. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u4	Thank you. Mr President, my dear colleagues, I would like to respond to Mr Kalousek's speech. I would like to begin with the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture in the last two and a quarter years in this coalition government, with Mr Kalousek speaking about the massive support of large enterprises. I will give a few facts and ask the Member to pay attention to this. As part of an important investment and subsidy instrument, such as the common agricultural policy, where around CZK 33 billion flows into agriculture, it is the so-called first pillar. The first pillar - from which so-called area payments are paid. For this first pillar, enterprises with an area of more than 1,150 hectares are reduced to these direct payments and these funds are tilted into the so-called second pillar, called the Rural Development Programme, where they are intended for all applicants in this subsidy measure. With the funds being around CZK 100 to CZK 120 million per year. The second major measure is the rural development programme, where so-called area payments are being paid in LFA areas, these are areas which are naturally disadvantaged, and I would say that they are mountain and sub-mountain areas. And here again, the principle of degressivity works, where the payment has been reduced since 500 hectares. We are going to go to 1,800 hectares, where these payments are down to 30 percent. So clearly other measures where, in turn, these payments are reduced from the size of medium-sized enterprises. I would also like to give a specific example of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2007 to 2013. Here, up to CZK 1 million was paid 245 million to farmers for the entire seven years. During the operation of this government and during my work at the Ministry, in the first round of the new programming period in the envelope for the project up to CZK 1 million, which is intended for farmers up to CZK 150 hectares, we have allocated CZK 385 million. This amount has not been exhausted by the applications received and we have satisfied all applicants with the amount of CZK 185 million in one year. Here are two clear figures - 245 million crowns in seven years, 185 million crowns in one single year. [[10.30 hours]] Other measures concerning small and medium-sized enterprises are managed through the Support and Guarantee Fund of the peasant and forestry fund, where we have opened new possibilities for applications for operating and investment loans, which can be combined with de minimis aid, where the de minimis amount is immediately deductible from principal, i.e. roughly 405 thousand. CZK over a period of three years is immediately forgiven to the applicant. Here in two and a half months of running this program we have in administration request for 600 mil. CZK 80 per cent from farmers who ask for amounts up to 1 million. Crowns. So I dare say that in the area of the Ministry of Agriculture's policy, we are really trying to measure fairly, to set up our policy to support sensitive sectors, that is, fruits, vegetables, potatoes, hops, sugar beets and the livestock sector, that is, areas where we are not self-sufficient and where there is a high potential for maintaining or creating new jobs in the countryside. This is a real, real policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, which I am able to declare on specific figures. No political assumptions or misrepresentation of this matter, as you have said. When we move to the next area, whether animal production, as you said directly, increases emissions. I would like to say that since 1990 we have practically the lowest livestock stocks in the last 10 years, and this has also been due to the policies of my predecessors, who have not been able to support this sector enough investment to be naturally competitive with their competitors abroad. So definitely animal production - it is necessary to read the numbers correctly. These numbers are not talking about increasing emissions by 15 percent, but it is the current list of current emissions that we have. And then we also have to ask ourselves a philosophical question: If we look at global climate change and the Czech Republic and Central Europe region is listed as a suitable region over the next 50 years with regard to climate change for agricultural production, logically, there will be a lot of regions where this is not the ideal climate, they will have big problems, we have a population increase of 2.5 billion. the population by 2050, today a billion people are starving and we need to answer the question of which regions and which states will be able to secure their own food self-sufficiency, and also on the basis of export possibilities to provide livelihood for people in regions where plant and animal production will not be possible to such extent. So this also needs to be taken into account when we are talking about things that concern greenhouse gas emissions and how we will approach this in the future. You mentioned the loss of animal production here. Estimated losses, I'd like to put it right, this year for the milk and pork sector, they're somewhere at 8 billion. CZK if the average prices for the first half continue in the second half. We, within the framework of the common agricultural policy and the aid set up for sensitive sectors, protein crops and welfare measures, are able to reduce the loss to around 3.5 billion. And those 3.5 billion, which have not yet been fully covered by farmers this year, we are able to practically get this loss to at least a black zero through supplemented national grant titles and combined with this measure of green diesel. We have to realize that 100 thousand people work in agriculture today. people, of which more than 50 percent work in animal production. Let us ask ourselves a question if we accept the devastation of livestock production and the demise of jobs, how we will replace these jobs. Then we move to the next plane, and this is related to it - we can answer the question, if there is no animal production, there won't be enough organic matter on the animal production, especially grass, clover, crops that have a generally improving character in relation to soil, crops that are anti-erosic, crops that increase soil absorption capacity, there won't be enough organic matter to return to the soil, how we will financially appreciate these things and what loss they will be, because these things that have an impact on the environment are not calculated financially in the Czech Republic. So please nicely, this is another argument that is needed if we are looking at animal production, put into context and know how to work with it. You said that under your influence, the green oil that was administered had tax evasions of between 70 and 80 percent. I don't know what data you're based on, whether it's your estimate, or whether this data was supplied by people from individual customs district administrations, if you've ever confronted the agricultural professional public. I've never noticed such a process. I just want to say that from the perspective of the person who previously administered the process of green diesel, there were still hard normalities behind your work. Those standards were calculated on individual types of agricultural crops and on individual types of agricultural production areas and those standards could not be exceeded. As a farmer, I know the normalizations were consistent with practice. So I don't know what you're coming from when you talk about 70 to 80 percent abuse. If I, as a farmer in an intensive production area, had the opportunity to draw about 130 litres per hectare, I dare say that there were years when we significantly exceeded this value and could not apply it to ourselves. So much for the argument you mentioned here. It is then necessary to realise that, more or less, all surrounding countries, other than Slovakia, have support for their farmers in the form of green diesel for both plant and animal production. And it's just a difference you can't catch up on in other national grant titles. It should be noted that every national grant title costs human administration, financial demands, on-the-spot checks, etc., so no grant title can be without these costs, which you calculated for green oil, as you quoted from the report, to about 9 miles. Crowns. So we need to really look at these things objectively and not just unilaterally. Same thing when you were talking about fags and checks. I say again, every grant title has its share of control, whether we like it or not. So much for my comment on your speech, in which you here spoke very critically to green oil. I repeat, even in the case of green diesel for livestock production, information on standardizations for livestock units of all categories of livestock to which this applies is transmitted to the customs authorities, and farmers will not use a higher claim than the standardity, and if they would like to do so, they must clearly declare it and the Customs Administration actually has it as a guide to look at it, if farmers want to ask for higher values of litres to which they want the refund of excise duty, then they must clearly declare these things on what activities the oil has been consumed, it must lead to detailed reporting. I dare say that green oil today is a measure that will significantly help the livestock sector, help to equalise the position with other countries such as Poland, Austria, Germany and all the countries of the old European 15. So I ask the House of Deputies to support this proposal at first reading and to discuss it in September at second and third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u5	Thank you, Minister, and two priority rights. Mr Kováčik's microphone, Mr Faltýnek will be prepared with the first, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear government, colleagues, I will say this briefly, in a clear and concise manner. We all know that agriculture and, in particular, animal production are in a long-term deep crisis. I'm not going to document it on precise figures, but we all know all the time since the coup, how we've been getting beef stocks down here, especially dairy cows, how we've been down below 50 percent of the pork stocks, what are the problems with poultry meat or poultry in general, how it all follows up to a situation where we suddenly don't know what to do with the grain grown, because few people realize that up to 70 percent of the grain grown in order to have some meaningful application, they have to go through a leather bag, which means they have to go through animal production, or they have to be sold well. But if there's a shortage of necks that would consume the grain, then it's going to bring down the price of the grain. [[10.40 hours]] The impact on the environment, on the maintenance of the landscape, on how we need to respect all the contexts of the system when we have the need to build flood control measures here, on water retention measures in the countryside, and at the same time we humiliate the stocks of bovine animals to which permanent grasslands are linked, legumes on arable land, alfalfa, clover and the like, that means measures that improve the reception capacity of the soil, which slow the drainage conditions and so on, if we do not respect these peculiarities, then there is a situation where the decline in livestock production helps solve these problems elsewhere in Europe. The Minister spoke very rightly about Poland, about Germany, about Austria. I am also supplying France, especially the old countries of the European Union. But I also supply Denmark, where the situation is more than two and a half times higher, for example, for pigs that consume those products of plant production. The deep crisis, in which animal production in particular, and in recent weeks and months in particular, milk production and sales, that is, the heavy farming industry, is finding, has its causes, but it is also necessary for the crisis to be resolved very quickly. I am personally convinced that in the foreseeable future, the European Union will re-evaluate its position on, for example, milk quotas that have recently been abolished. And one of the consequences of abolishing milk quotas is the current surplus of milk and dairy products, in addition to blocking the Russian market, Arab markets and so on for European producers, who, in particular, from the old countries of the European Union, are looking for sales in our country at the expense of our farmers. And every measure that leads to the equalisation of the position of the Czech, Moravian, Silesian farmer and foodmaker in this competition - we have here capitalism almost free competition, as far as the agricultural product market is concerned certainly, on a straight European market, but we have unequal conditions for individual states. And unfortunately, the Czech Republic is pulling the shorter end here. So please, any measure that will help us solve animal production problems today, equalise the Czech producer, Moravian and Silesian, with producer Polish, German and so on, to save jobs in the countryside in a very short timeline, save the situation as regards rural water conditions, save jobs in the processing industry. And each of these measures, this is one of those proposed by the Ministry of Agriculture, is a number of others - for example, Polák are very effective in helping their farmers to almost forgive their social and health insurance. There are countries where very significantly - few people know that farmers here - they always say "you have what you want" - but those subsidies are taxed. The subsidies are very important, too. There are countries that relieve their farmers of subsidies. And other and other measures that help farmers in the different countries of the European Union to maintain a more favourable position in the common single European market. It is time for the Czech Republic to do the same, because today it is decided whether next time, and perhaps next year, there will be at least some dimension of Czech agriculture, and a number of political parties, including ours, have for example self-sufficiency or closer to self-sufficiency in the production of agricultural products of the temperate zone in their programme, every measure will allow us to do so. Please support this first measure. Please also support any other measure that will lead to the help of Czech producers, especially now animal products. I intercede for it not only to be a region of milk, pigs, poultry, to be fish, because especially in some areas of Bohemia and Moravia there are prominent fishing areas of pond fishing, whether I am talking about South Bohemia or Pohořelicku there in our country in South Moravia, where animal production is very intensively carried out through fish farming so that we can preserve and gradually develop the Czech Republic, at least slightly develop the sector of animal production so that we do not lose our competition. It's not just about the deal. This is about the fact that agriculture can only perform its off-production functions, which are at least as important as the production functions. This is about the fact that agriculture as a whole, if it is a functioning system, can contribute very effectively to protecting the environment, creating space for recreation, preserving, improving water conditions in the landscape. And all of this has contexts that, for example, at first sight, we are unable to see. That's why I'm asking nice, idle talk about who it's helping, who's recording and stuff like that - I always say, "There's not only one farm called Agrofert, there are many others." And just because we don't want to add anything to Babiš, we take away everyone else and damage agriculture as a whole? Let us also consider this situation. And please at least for the KSČM club, let us support this measure. And let us encourage them to enter into force as quickly as possible and help Czech farmers and producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u7	Thank you. Now, please, with Mr Faltýnek's priority right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u8	Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I've got the rare book with me again, and I'm warning you that the second episode has come out. The Corruption Fund has issued a sequel to this book. But because as my colleague Kalousek laughs, repeated joke is not a joke, I'm not quoting from the book today. You know, it is a great pity that when the rapporteur spoke, many people in the room did not listen. That's too bad, because he didn't fail again in his performance. And I personally respect him very much for holding that line for many years. The line is still the same - the destruction of Czech farmers. And I understood the record, my friends, why. This is where it sounded clear on the microphone. I've been thinking about this for years since I've been in agriculture, 35 years. I figured it out today. And I'll tell you, folks. It has been said here today that farmers have a big problem in producing greenhouse gases, that 14 percent of Europe's greenhouse gases are produced by our European farmers because the cows fart. And that's the big problem! That is why, as my fellow rapporteur said, we will not support farmers because their cows fart and produce greenhouse gases. And 14 percent of greenhouse gases, that's a really, really big volume. Even more than in traffic or at roughly the same level. But I'd go back to green oil. It's true that Mirek Kaloušek's government canceled the green oil. Our government, because we had all three parties in the electoral programmes that we would restore green oil to our farmers, because it is in the surrounding states to be able to compete in this area, so we restored it again. And the proposal that goes from the Ministry of Agriculture today to introduce it to animal production is merely reflecting on the situation that is now on the European market. I would like to thank Pavel Kováčik from this place, who is no longer here -- he is here, sorry, through Mr President, I apologise -- Madam President, I apologize -- that his speech was directed only by common sense, not by politics. [[It's a voice from the diaper: it's here.]] [[Vice-President:]] But only by common sense. And that's enough for a debate on agriculture. And I am so glad that I finally understand why TOP 09 has been liquidating our Czech farmers for a long time. Just because they create greenhouse gases. Okay. Let's face it. It's a message for our farmers. I hope they'll take the message and act accordingly, of course. So my colleague Kalousek just confirmed that he is a long-term enemy of Czech farmers, and in this rhetoric he is basically still the same. [[10.50 hours]] Let me make one more comment. I listened quite carefully yesterday to the opening speech by President Kalousek, the rapporteur for this press. And I will read you the opening statement: Ladies and gentlemen, the opposition is well aware of the disproportionate position of the government, which, thanks to its laxity and inability to implement new rules, the refund on excise duty, is already on the 12th day under an unauthorized public support regime. Although the government has already imposed on itself in December that new rules must be submitted to the European Commission by 1 July, we have 12 July and there is no such thing. So we understand the government's attempt to approve this at first reading, if possible. Well, the problem is that my colleague Kalousek has been confused for years. This debate was last year, my colleague, through Madam President. That's behind us. But while we're at it, my friends, I would have taken advantage of it, because here the House of Deputies thundered over a year ago, how Agrofert on this return on high-content fuels will earn, how many billions that landlord Babiš will get, etc. etc. I said a few words on the subject here at the time. So the speech was quite long, so I'm not going to bother you today, but just one quote to remind you. When Minister of Finance Miroslav Kalousek 25. 3. 2009 advocated this issue that, at the request of the European Union, there is a need to subsidize high-content biofuels, so he used the memorable phrase that the government of the Czech Republic, in accordance with its programming statement and in line with the conclusions of the European Council, is committed to combating climate change to the last man, to the last drop of blood, to the last tailor, and therefore I am asking you, as Minister of Finance, to approve this support. Well, for the governments of two of the past, that support was more than 8 billion. CZK for high-content biofuels. And do you know how it is this year, folks? When we were scared here a year ago about how many billions will fall to Agrofert, it is that in this first six months the support of the state for high-content biofuels is CZK 380 thousand. 380 thousand crowns! So where are the billions that were announced here by President Kalousek? And it is the same debate as when my colleague Kalousek here says: Farmers are thieves because they cheat - I only translate freely, Mr President, I apologize through Madam President - because they steal that they cheat on the refund of excise duty on green diesel. It was said that there were tax evasions. And who makes them? Well, only those, according to President Kalousek, who use the green oil in plant production and potentially in animal production. And I fundamentally disagree with that, I say for myself. Just farmers aren't thieves. Farmers use diesel for plant production, and we also want to help them in the field of livestock production. So, please, let's not call farmers a copycat, thief. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u9	Thank you. At this point, I am opening up a general debate in which I register three factual applications. I will first ask Mr Pavera's microphone, then Mr Běhounek and then Mr Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u10	Thank you. Have a nice morning. I only wanted to respond to the Minister of Agriculture, but Mr. Faltýnek picked me up from the chair a little bit. I just want to tell him that he is a great demagogist, through Madam President. TOP 09 is not against farmers. First of all. I would just like to say to the small farmers what Minister Jurečka said here. It's nice that the minister here said how many million crowns were going to the small farmers. I'm sure it's nice, but it's funny that the small farmers are the ones who complain most about having big problems with subsidies, that they would need more funding for the first hectares, which I think would be reasonable to better respond to different things. And what's killing them is that they're getting grants with a huge delay. After all, it is not possible when farmers, especially the small ones, come to the SZIF check in September - and the following year in June they will not receive money. This is not normal, it must change, it must be improved, it must not be excused only by the European Union that programmes have changed, etc. As far as green oil is concerned, because I only have a factual point, I'm sure I'm against it. There's another way to help farmers. You can increase the subsidies per hectare, you can increase the subsidies per livestock unit, per sows. All this can be done without farmers having to deal with other bureaucratic papers. I think that's the way it could be. As far as farmers are concerned, we are certainly in favour of helping our farmers, because not by their own fault, they are in the situation in which they are. The European Union should participate in this, and the reserves are certainly also in the Ministry of Agriculture. It is certainly possible to punish those farmers who do not manage the land so as to follow the rotational procedures properly. That's where you can save some money. And, of course, you can take it away from landowners like in neighboring countries. It is in Hungary, Germany, Austria and elsewhere. So there are reserves that can be used to help those farmers who need help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u11	Thank you. I now ask Mr. Běhounek's microphone also with de facto effect. Mr Kalousek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u12	Madam Vice-President, honourable members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, good morning. I volunteered because I listened very carefully to my colleague Kováčik and I just want because Vysočina was mentioned here yesterday, pointing out that we are actually facing a decision to find any steps and possibilities to support farmers. Otherwise, they are now faced with a decision as to whether or not the herds will start to dodge, whether or not the care of the landscape will begin to fall. Remember that water is essential for Prague and Brno. If we cannot support this issue as one of the parts, then this black scenario - I would very much hate to see what I am saying come true - is completely real. I have been meeting with them regularly for almost six months and through the Agrarian Chamber and other institutions we have received a promise from the Prime Minister and from Minister Jurečka that we will deal with these issues. So I'm asking you all to support the steps that will make things easier for them, because it will make it easier for us. Let's be aware of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u13	Thank you. I beg you, Mr Kalousek, in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u14	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, perhaps you might consider alerting Mr Faltýnek that he should report a conflict of interest because, as a member of the Board of Directors of Agroferte, he is undoubtedly bound by his reward for the profits of this company. But that's not the point. It is a pity that one of those who did not listen to what I said was also Mr. Faltýnek. I didn't exactly say that we don't care about agriculture because there's a flatulence of cows. I was merely quoting the data of the European Commission, which is in direct conflict with the argument of the petitioner, which tells us how it will improve our environment. Well, it won't, it's not true. I'm not saying it bothers me. I am merely saying that the argument is false and with what ease the petitioners can make false arguments for us. It is also not true that we are against this volume, even much higher volume, to Czech farmers. It is a form that is provided, and I do not see any reason why it could not be provided on the expenditure side of the balance sheet, i.e. a subsidy method, not a refund. The reason is obvious. Because the subsidies could benefit the little ones against the big ones, and that's a policy that the Ministry of Agriculture fundamentally rejects. [[11.00 hours]] As for this nonsense with thieves - yes, Mr President through Madam President, I agree with you. There are as many honest and dishonest farmers as in any other business sector. Too bad you didn't defend the sector so passionately the moment your boss here promoted the EET. With your argument, I'm sure we'd have convinced the Treasury Secretary not to do that crap.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u15	Thank you, and now please, with the de facto Minister Brabec. Then, with Mr Faltýnek in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u16	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to confirm the words of my colleague Faltýnek, but also of my colleague Kalousek. Cows really fart. This results from many very technical papers. But so do herds of buffaloes in Africa, elephants, giraffes, zebras. So then the question is, should you, too, because they actually contribute to the greenhouse effect? I mean, of course, the European Union is dealing with this, and as far as I know - because it has been on a number of different environmental ministers' meetings - I have to say that it has not invented anything essential in this matter except that at the last meeting a proposal has been made whether cows should be fitted with a kind of vessel. However, there would be a debate as to whether there would be, let's say, any cow delivery if the catchers were too full. So I just want to do this - that was a serious debate even at the level of the ministerial meeting and at the last climate conference. So I just want to say that however this contributes to the greenhouse effect in some way, the solution that might have occurred to somebody that there should be restrictions on livestock production, which, of course, then produces organic matter so necessary for agricultural land, is not really invented yet. And I'm afraid it won't even be made up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u17	Thank you. And now, please, with Mr Faltýnek's factual comment. Mr Kalousek will be ready. After that, Mr Kováčik and Mr Heger.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u18	Thank you. Just a brief reaction to my colleague Kalousek about these forms. The government is currently - and this is not the only matter that is being discussed, which is the furthest in the debate to help the sector that is now in a total crisis caused by various factors in Europe and the world. We have also appealed to the Committee on Agriculture, and we have adopted a number of resolutions on the Minister for Agriculture to look for ways that are fast and, above all, need not be notified in Brussels. And what President Kalousek suggests may theoretically be possible, but it will take a long time. And those farmers, those farmers need help now. And they need to get that signal from us, from the government, from the House, that we care that they've gotten into this critical situation. That is why we are going this way to increase the refund of excise duty on diesel for animal production, because this may not be notified with the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u19	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Kalousek's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u20	One more time. Sorry to keep you waiting, but I have experience that a hundred times repeated lies can become the truth. So one more time. The rapporteur here for less than half a second - he did not think to say that perhaps the greenhouse gases should reduce herds or animal production. I was merely arguing with the unprofessional argument of the promoter who claims that promoting animal production will improve the air and the environment, which is not true. But I certainly didn't propose any measures, or perhaps I wouldn't object to the increase in cattle. Only President Faltýnek made that up in his gloating. The second thing about that term, which was like President Faltýnek. Please take a look at the proposed effectiveness of the law proposed by the government. It says July 1st, which, given today's date, you wouldn't have made, even if we hadn't vetoed you in the '90s. So, of course, the government ordered to approve it on July 1st and, as always, failed to do so with its incompetence. So one of the things that's going to have to change in the design is the date of effectiveness.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u21	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr. Kováčik's microphone. Mr Heger will be prepared, followed by Minister Jurečka and then Mr Urban. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u22	Thank you for the floor. Friends, the debate we're having around greenhouse gases is an example of how things can be bent according to who it suits. In this context, I would like to call on the Government, at its next meeting, to address the problems of agriculture, to my initiative that farmers should also receive paid support for how their fields, foresters, but beware, even pond ponds, consume greenhouse gases. Because, as we know, in the process of assimilation, i.e. photosynthesis, greenhouse gases are consumed. And the whole balance, or the whole consumption through green plants in agriculture, was compared to the balance of livestock production. I guarantee you that farmers in this case will not pay for greenhouse gas production, but they will take huge subsidies for the balance sheet, which is significantly positive for farmers in this respect. Let us return from this debate, which is out of the ordinary, to what Mr Běhounek said. Here the farmer is once again an endangered species, whether it's in the Highlands or anywhere else, and if we don't help quickly, resuscitation is almost impossible. Especially in animal production. The animal production, as I said before, has its multiplier effects. And we decide if there's going to be some kind of agriculture, if agriculture is going to function here in all its functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u23	Thank you. Mr. Heger's microphone, please. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u24	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Exceptionally, I took the liberty of intervening in this debate with a technical remark on the nature of the framework of the debate. Perhaps President Kováčik brought this upon me when he said something about how badly agriculture is. I think that when someone's in a bad way, they have the right to defend themselves, but on the other hand, we have heard repeatedly here the statements by the owner of Agrofert and the Deputy Prime Minister and the Finance Minister about how he makes billionaire money. And that he's capable, and that if someone's capable, they can be well, that's what it means. But it's all part of a debate about some things when someone wants to make a point. There's one thing that bothers me so much. That when a similar debate is held about health care, it is not said that health care really needs money, as they say about the subsidies. It's just that it's bad for the health department, that there's corruption, that everyone's stealing there, and that they're supposed to keep order on their own insides, and they won't need any money. So if there's anything out of the ordinary here, it's this format and style of debate. If there's anything positive about this debate, it's that there's blue books out here, not red books. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u25	Thank you and now please with the de facto Minister Jurečka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u26	Thank you. I would simply like to briefly explain to Mr Herbert Pavera's speech his consideration of taking this money and increasing payments per hectare per area, increasing payments per livestock unit. It sounds awfully simple at first sight, but the practice is different. The practice is that within the framework of the common agricultural policy of the European 28 it works so that payments are essentially plus minus the same. The European Commission is watching it. And if the national state wants to come in and wants to say, "I want to increase the payment to vegetables or to a hectare of hops or to a livestock unit in pigs or cattle," you have to explain in detail why you want to increase the payment. It's always connected to some higher cargo for the farmer. So it's not like I'm gonna take the crown and get the crown to the farmer. The farmer had to make some rather significant investment, which usually complicates his management, reduces his competitiveness, and I still have to administer the crown. That means the farmer has a load to file, we go to him, we have to accept the application, we have to administer it, and we have to control it. So the cost of such a process is significantly higher, inefficient than, if necessary, aid through green diesel, when I leave the money for farmers relatively simply. And on the basis of the normatives that we have recounted both for plant production, now for animal production, the normatives are, say, not the only parameter in terms of the European Court of Justice's decision and are not just what is being taken into account. They are a recommendation for Customs officials. And we are communicating with them internally so that, at a time when farmers demand more than the normalization we have calculated for the type of production, farmers need to justify and prove why they have such consumption. I return to the fact that whether you like it or not, whether you have other, perhaps philosophical and political views of state support, this is the most effective way we can vote today. [[Time warning]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u27	Thank you. Now, please refer to Mr Urban's microphone with a factual remark. Just for Mr. Kalousek, it's about five in a row. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u28	Thank you for the floor. I guess it's obvious that I'm a layman in this area. However, at least once in a parliamentary term, there is always talk here in the Chamber of Deputies about the agricultural crisis that can lead to its liquidation. I have no reason not to believe you, friends who understand. I'm ready to support this standard. However, as a layman, I want to ask what is the cause of the crisis. Because it is important enough for us to avoid such crises in the future. If I were to imagine that the situation in Europe is still the same or growing, they probably consume the same plus minus food, I find it strange that cyclical crises are repeating here. It is only possible that I could explain this by the fact that the countries around us have done something extraordinary in favour of farmers at the expense of Czech farmers. If that's the case, then of course we have to level up the pace, and I totally understand that. But why aren't we doing it in time? Then I have to ask. Or what's the cause of the crisis? Try explaining this to the laymen so that we can, comfortably with complete conviction, vote in favour of all the steps that Czech agriculture will take out of this crisis. And perhaps a little comment on what the Minister of the Environment has told us. He's here to tell us what the Council of Environment Ministers is dealing with. It seems to me that it's a waste of money to meet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u29	Thank you, and please, to Mr. Fiedler's microphone. Mr Kučera will prepare, in fact, all of this. Mr. Mr. Fiedler is disturbing his business. I will therefore ask Mr Kučera to prepare Mr Vácha. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u30	Thank you for the floor. Every time I listen to Prime Minister Faltýnek's performance, I think there's a new episode of The District in the North. That's how it sounds with the dictum. Maybe it's a bit of an audition to cast the lead on this show. Anyway, why did I want to get off? Ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware that agriculture is an absolutely over-rated field. In the crisis in which agriculture is located, as the Minister of Agriculture and President Faltýnek have told us here, there are many other disciplines in such a similar crisis. Mr. Heger mentioned health care. I want to mention other fields and this is Czech engineering. Please tell me when this government came with the support of Czech engineering. I don't mean the big Czech engineering, but the small companies, the companies that have 20, 40, 50, 60 employees. They have bought expensive CNC machines that cost millions and millions of crowns. Who, in order to be able to produce on these machines to actually support the machines, will not get a crown. Not from Mr. Faltýnek, not from Mr. Jurečka. Who have to make them their own, who have to take loans for it and who have to work in a three-shift, if not four-shift operation, to feed these machines to support the company in order to support the employees. These companies can be, or, according to the logic, they're in a similar crisis to our farmers. We're hearing this, and it's logical, we have a representative of Agrofert here, we're hearing agriculture. I ask who will help small Czech engineering companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u31	Thank you, and please, to Mr. Vácha microphone. Mr Kalousek and then the Minister of Agriculture will be ready. All factual points. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u32	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I originally did not want to perform, I only had a comment about the performance of my colleague Kováčik, but then I was afraid that the information would get further and not be abused. I don't think a little education is gonna hurt. I would like to respond to his statement that if the greenhouse gas balance between plant and animal production were measured, that the plant production could possibly save global warming. It's not like that. Mr Kováčik forgot that we have some soil bacteria that produce CO2, and it is such a big CO2 producer that the photosynthesis is not able to assimilate it. If you look at the forest, the forest has zero balance of production and consumption of CO2. It's not true that forests are the lungs of the planet. Forests have zero balance and plant production, i.e. meadows and fields have a negative balance, where the amount of CO2 produced by soil bacteria is higher than what is able to assimilate the photosynthetic apparatus of plants. So both animal and plant production contribute two, one more and one less, to increase or produce greenhouse gases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u33	Thank you. I beg you, Mr Kalousek, and after that will be prepared by the Minister of Agriculture. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u34	Thank you. When you responded to my colleague Paver, Minister, to the arguments of the EU's common agricultural policy, it might be fair to add that it was the Czech Republic, which was extremely active in defending the European Commission's reform effort to counter direct payments and the mechanism to improve grant rules for small ones at the expense of large ones. And that it was in particular the Czech Ministry of Agriculture and, in particular, the member of YES 2011 Mr Telička, who was very effectively involved in the fight against this certainly correct reform proposal. And that this is the Czech Ministry of Agriculture, which did not go the way e.g. Germany, at least to improve the small at the expense of the large ones under the possible rules. And then we have the two biggest grant recipients, you little farmer, Mr. . Babiš and Mr. Radovan Vítek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u35	Thank you. Now please get to the microphone of the Minister of Agriculture with a de facto one. After that, Mr. Faltýnek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u36	Thank you. I don't want to go into controversy about how other sectors are doing and how the crisis is going on there, but now that I'm fast on the Internet for engineering, this is where we expect to grow by 2.7 percent this year. Sales are going to grow by 5%. Small and medium-sized enterprises and companies even expect to grow by 2,9%. Growth is expected in 2017. So much for a brief look at the area of engineering and the issue of crisis in it. [[11.20 hours]] In short, I would like to explain a slightly different view of agriculture. Agriculture is not the production of nails. In agriculture, when the crisis comes and I decide to stop production, those steps are sometimes irreversible. If I decide to shut down a herd of cows today, stop milking, release people, and in six months the situation will change, then I need at least three years to inseminate a new cow, a calf is born, a heifer needs 15 to 18 months to grow up so I can re-inseminate it and start milking it. That means at least three years so I can start this production again. Such a story in other fields is difficult to find, such a parallel. And I would also like to mention that we are dealing with a situation here that has also been created by the political decision of the Czech Government and the governments of the 28 Europeans. The crisis in the milk and pigmeat sector is also due to the fact that there was a measure that concerned the response to the situation in Ukraine, the European sanctions, followed by Russian sanctions against the European Union, as well as the decision to end the milk quota regime, which gave a certain guarantee here, because even though there was a crisis in the past, the crises were going away very quickly. But today the situation is different. So, thanks to two political decisions, a large part of livestock production is in crisis today. And I see it as important that the political representation also says: when we have made this decision, we are ready to give you a helping hand and not let you spit your mouth in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u37	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr. Faltýnek's microphone with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u38	Thank you. It's a shame we're not correct in this debate. [[Laughter and applause in the right side of the hall.]] I hope that at least some of us who didn't applaud from the right spectrum and get to the floor when the priority rights are over, and former Agriculture Minister Petr Bendl knows who I'm talking about, so he's just gonna say that it's not true what President Kalousek is always burning around here. Because the terms of the new programming period were negotiated under your government, through Madam President Kalousek, when the Minister of Agriculture was Ivan Fuksa and Petr Bendl. And I was actively involved in those negotiations in Brussels and Strasbourg, and I was lobbying for it, and I admit that, after all, we all know that Czech agriculture, but not only Czech, but also Slovak, Hungarian, but also German, was not affected by the idea of a capping. And then it was the common numbers of the Department of Agriculture and NGOs. That amount was estimated annually at 10 billion. The crowns we saved our farmers with this lobbying. So let's at least be a little bit correct in this debate. Of course, there are some things that are being said in the House, and I, of course, am taking advantage of it, but here in this particular matter, we, together with the Ministry of Agriculture, fought with other states within Europe for it, and we were looking for an alliance that eventually succeeded in creating so that the principle of capping, the great one that was thought by Commissioner Ciolos at the time, could not pass. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u39	Now we're finally coming to proper applications. Mr. Fiedler's microphone, Mr. Bendl will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u40	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. So I went through a long time waiting for the actual notes to pass. And I canceled one myself, and then I almost regretted it, because once again, there was this pointless debate about greenhouse gases. For God's sake, let's see what point we're discussing. We are discussing excise duties and greenhouse gases, as Minister Brabec said here, the European Union is dealing with a lot of crap. I fully agree with that. And so, when I have already touched on the European Union, through Madam President Mr Kučer: Mr Member, you have said that agriculture is an absolutely over-rated field. I think I can agree with that. I don't see the MP... there's Mr Kučera. I think I can agree with that. And why is it a pre-schooled field, not just agriculture? Because the famous European Union pushed us into this. I don't think we'd do this on our own. It's the famous crap of Brussels, as Minister Brabec rightly said - I don't see him here. There's a lot of crap to be dealt with there. And one of those crap is the nonsense subsidies that go against normal business, the normal market. And now, through Madam President, I am going to have a bit of a complaint about Mr Kučer. You are the one who is the friendly European party for the European Union. Let me get this straight. And try to say sometimes that the European Union is doing something stupid, and try to think real sometimes. There's been some other invectors. I don't want to comment here anymore. Let's focus on the pragmatic side of the matter. I have a question for Minister Jurečka if the Minister can listen. You're here, Minister, he said the payments would be for cattle troops. That there will be normative elements of production. That the Customs Administration will receive the standardizations and will do checks accordingly in cooperation with the financial authorities, if deductions are legitimately drawn, vomit. However, in the explanatory memorandum, which I have read a little bit, point 6, there § 57, tax refund, point 6: The right to refund is proved: (a) proof of the sale of mineral oils referred to in paragraph 1. 1a; (b) records of actual consumption of mineral oils referred to in paragraph 1. Now, don't be mad at me, Minister, you're contradicting each other. In what you said, you were talking about normalities, some flat-rate payments, but what I read in the explanatory memorandum is about the record of actual consumption of mineral oils. And that's what I'm interested in right now is how the actual consumption of mineral oils in animal production is going to be reported. Whether it's some kind of related ride or I don't know how or what it's all about. So what's the deal? Either it's bullshit what you said, sorry, or it's bullshit written in the explanatory statement. Because it's absolutely ruled out. Well, I'd like to know what's paying. And if this is to be recorded on the basis of actual consumption, I'd really like to know how it's going to be recorded, especially in animal production. I am here dealing with this part of this amendment because I am a member of the budget committee, where we often deal with tax collections and deductions and tax evasion. And here it is again such a tricky thing, where, as the rapporteur said, here I am telling him the truth, it is a field that is unfortunately a breeding ground. So my specific question: Will it be normals, or will it be real consumption? And if this is real consumption, how will it be reported? And now I'm gonna keep going. I agree that our farmers are often at a disadvantage compared to competition from other European countries. I agree that unfortunately we must help them precisely because they are being disadvantaged. It would be best if everyone had the same conditions, but we know what the grant policy did to us. So I'm here to support our farmers so it's not convenient to carry yogurt from Belgium, but to make milk from our milk to produce yogurt from ours and sell it from ours. I totally agree with that. But I think we could think about what other form to choose. When I was reading the explanatory note and I was looking for a justification for why the green oil that was already expanding again, we had it canceled, so I'm in the explanatory report that I now have printed in front of me, I printed it all out, there are points - I'm just going to quote the heading of the paragraphs. Assessment of the legal status in force. Explanation of the necessity of the proposed legislation. Assessment of compliance of proposed legislation with constitutional order. Assessment of the compatibility of the proposed legislation. Assessment of compliance of proposed legislation with international treaties. Then there's the expected economic and financial impact. And we continue again in the same spirit: the impact assessment of the proposed solution. [[11.30 hours]] So, when I wanted to read in the explanatory report what the real reasons are, or why we're going the way of the green oil, I really didn't read it here, Minister. I would like you to give this more reason why the way of green diesel - that it is a quick option, I think that it was very correctly expressed here in his commentary by President Kováčik, who, in substance and argumentally, correctly said a number of things without any politics and tried to look at the matter really. But let's explain why we're going this way. There was still a mention - the subsidies to engineering. Why isn't engineering subsidized? I think it's probably because - whoever said it about engineering, I look at notes, I don't remember it now - it's because the other European countries don't subsidize engineering and subsidize agricultural production. Here we are again with the nonsense of the European Union. So I hope, when we discuss some of our relations with the European Union, those who criticized this place, and now I really am heading to the TOP 09 parliamentary club, so don't get mad at me, so these criticisms, critical criticisms against the European Union, I hope you'll repeat. Again and lastly, I repeat the question of Minister Jurečka, what is true - normals or actual consumption? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u41	Thank you. Now, please, to Mr Bendl's microphone with a proper application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u42	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I finally got a proper application for a word, even though my finger itched at least 50 times to log in for those two minutes, but it wouldn't be enough. So at least now I'm gonna be able to respond to some of the performances, including the material itself, because a number of performances have been completely passed by the material. I'll start with Chairman Faltýnek, who's just coming in. Yes, we have fought very hard to ensure that the cropping - for those of you who are not orienting on the issue - is not determined by the size of the farms. We fought very hard for this because we want a level playing field for everyone, regardless of whether someone is big or small. We want to set conditions that will help everyone, and there will be no exceptions and no differences. And that's what we're actually doing with this material today. And then I'll tell you why. And that's why we can't support the material. At the time, we were in the same conditions for everyone on the same ship. My colleague Urban here asked very well what was the cause. Because we can look for the consequences and the reasons why we are and where we are. It's an overproduction. Because when my colleague Kováčik here spoke of the loss of meat cattle etc., he forgot to mention that we simply have more beef than we need, we have more milk, we produce more milk than we consume. This is a special category for agriculture. Ironically, at the moment of overproduction, it's worse for farmers than when there's a shortage, because then I'll catch up with the price, the loss. But the moment I produce more, I have high-cost problems, so I get into those scissors that keep me tighter and harder and harder to find a way out of it. I quote, if we really want to be objective, then agriculture basically protects every developed country in the world. He's looking for ways to treat agriculture because it has something to do with food, food self-sufficiency, etc. But the question is, how does the system set up, the levels of bureaucracy, the rates of protectionism, etc. And I feel like we're already moving somewhere we're not supposed to be. Every national agriculture deserves a certain level of protection because we depend on it for life. And it applies not only to food, water, the environment, everything that has to do with it. We're supposed to be looking for a reasonable measure here, and we're supposed to be looking for it to make the system as simple as possible from my point of view. If it is simple, it will be transparent, everyone will understand it, it will be long-term, etc. and we're not going to take accelerated steps that are actually causing confusion into the whole system. Today we're talking about green oil and that's called. the fielders or farmers who run the fields already have the green oil, and they themselves will tell you what they're like. The forms are changing at any moment, the reporting time is changing at any moment. It's been about six months before, now they've been asking for it every two months. When you talk to them, they get hair on their heads and say, "That's still new forms, new checks, etc." And now we're gonna go back to the new forms, into the new controls. The Minister of Agriculture said it here - new controls will have to be, we're creating a new title. And I'm telling you, maybe even in the spirit of it - we're here last year or when they proposed green oil for everyone. Why aren't the paramedics supposed to have it? Why don't the police have it? That's even "dirty - spill" as far as the state budget is concerned. Why shouldn't the engineering we've been talking about have it? Let's go, reduce the tax burden on fuels in general, and we won't need any more officials, we won't need any more inspectors at the Ministry of Agriculture. [[With emphasis:]] Let's talk about reducing excise duty for everyone. It's simple. It'll work. No one will have to make excuses for others. And we will give impetus not only to Czech agriculture, but to the whole Czech economy. And even the state budget will save money on that because it's funding more and more civil servants, more and more cars paying excise duty, including profits, etc. In short, and well, maybe this is the way. Let's make this simple. There's no need to complicate this with the new law we have here. You know, and so I will also respond to the President of the Agricultural Committee and the Chairman of the ANO Parliamentary Club, when he mentioned the biodiesel and the debate from the past, following the winning campaign of the government coalition for more rape in the Czech Republic - this, by the way, is also a message to Mr Urban through Madam President - in the past period, I think the financial period of the European Union, the Czech Republic did not have support for livestock production in 2007 to 2013. This needs to be recalled. She's basically been missing out there, and we're catching up today, or we're catching the devil by the tail, so that we can get any closer to what's been going on in that Europe for a long time, and it's kind of incorporated there. And if we're talking about promoting biodiesel - if we're so bad, or if you're so bad at Agrofert that it's 380 grand, let's cancel it. It doesn't work like that. You don't get anything out of it, you say, you've been expecting maybe more, there's 380 grand there. We've been saying we don't want the rape in the long run. So let's go across the political spectrum to agree that this was nonsense, not even to Agroferta, and let's go back to the fact that the Czech farmer is to produce food and not non-food. We want the farmer to produce food so that it is better for him to produce food than non-food. To make it easier for him to produce livestock feed and not biogas feed. These are the parameters that we're supposed to start to change together. So let's try to talk about it. If President Faltýnek is right, and I don't doubt it, if it doesn't work, you see, let's cancel it, it'll all be a lot easier. Plus, if there was a lot of sophistication here, it was said that farmers were stealing or not stealing. It's not like that at all. This certainly does not apply - collective guilt in this respect is not the right argument and President Faltýnek knows it well. But the fact that individuals sometimes simply count the number of shoes and that it is not actually possible to check, is as well known by President Faltýnek as I do and as many of the farmers involved. That absolute control doesn't really exist, so it wouldn't even pay off anymore, so of course there are tax evasions. I don't think anyone's gonna measure them to a penny. [[11.40 hours]] But the way he asked the right question here, and I hope the Minister of Agriculture will answer that question, and I hope he won't convince us that then the best control of actual consumption will be that we're picking up tractors, or maybe. We're picking up tractor jumpsuits, so we know exactly how many kilometers they're going to walk, etc. We would really be somewhere in another world, how it will actually be controlled and what the measure is. And why two months, why every two months, which is especially extremely disadvantageous for those small and medium-sized ones. And even a note about who we're actually doing this for when green oil already exists and is being used, it was said here, the planters or those who farm on the soil, plow, reap, etc., and those who don't have fields, don't plow, don't harvest, don't have a chance to use it. And they'll use it for what? Primarily to bring food, or maybe. They took what's left of the former feed. And that, I'd say, is the primary cargo. To what extent does anyone then check whether we went for food or something else, how many times we were there, etc. etc., I'll leave that at your discretion to what extent it will be possible to check in fact or to what extent it can be cheated on. But I don't think that's really the way. That we should support - so if you're applying to this and you've been saying it all along that we're going to prevent corruption, that we're going to prevent tax evasion, etc., then you just can't plan to enforce such a protective, complex control for one part of the entrepreneurs in the agricultural sector as a subsidy issue. I would very much advocate that we look together for what support in the field of livestock and production can be made. But not projects that are very encouraging to be abused and really do nothing good. It has also been said here that this will bring nothing to the small and medium-sized farmers. It is, of course, and you all know it, for big companies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u43	Thank you. Now, please, with Mr Kováčik in fact, then he will be prepared with a proper Mr Šrámek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u44	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. By your means to a colleague, once Minister of Agriculture, Petr Bendl. Of course, I wasn't just talking about meat cows, as he quoted me here. Otherwise, thank you to everyone else who quoted me correctly. I was talking about cattle as a whole. And I've been talking about the state that's here, it's miserable that we need to save what we can right now and gradually build up the growth. According to your - through Madam President - philosophy, Mr Minister, it would mean that even one cow would be too big a state above what we need if we imported all our milk, dairy products, whether they were cheese, butter, yoghurt, etc. In addition to these sub-measures, one of which we are discussing today, it is effective to prevent imports! If we do not import or import excessively, then the condition that we have in milk production will suddenly not seem redundant to us and we will not have to support exports, which must now be another measure, because we have thousands of tons of butter in stock, dried milk etc., which we have to somehow get rid of. It's those companies that process milk that hang in storage. And if we recalculate the price now for these products, the price of raw milk is just over 3 kroner per liter. You'll recognize who you once went around agriculture, especially milk production, that it's a hell of a lot. So please, let's quote it right. To stop imports is also now, let's say, a command of the time. But this law that we're doing today, I don't think it's just for the big ones that it's for everyone. And I say again, let's all support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u45	Thank you. Two factual points. I'll ask Mr. Šrámek to hold on. First, Mr Bendl's microphone, and after that, Mr Fiedler will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u46	At the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, the President of the KSČM Members' Club proposes to prevent imports of a country which is significantly pro-export. [[with a smile]] That would be such a foul of the Czech Republic... You're damn right they'd give it back to us. This is where the Minister of Agriculture plans to make sure there are no more sanctions. koneckonců all, the representatives of the KSČM on the agricultural committee say - cancel the sanctions etc.! Well, the moment we stop imports, we have to expect others to do the same. Moreover, we are in some space, we have committed ourselves, we are still in the European Union, which still exists, so we should be aware of this, that it is not such a simple decision and that it leads us into a trap that would make us miserable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u47	Thank you. I will ask Mr Fiedler for a microphone, and then Mr Kováčik will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u48	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. My colleague Bendl gave me a bit of a break in the reaction. I'm going to respond to President Kováčik. What President Kováčik said here, of course, has logic. And I can understand it, I can relate to the reasons why he said it. But what my colleague Bendl has said, we should not be members of the European Union in order to restrict imports and support exports. I guess we'd be in some kind of trouble. Now let's see what situation we're in. We're just downhill from farm animals, cattle, pigs and everything. And they're getting more and more imported. An example of wine. In our country, as I heard, we produce 20 percent of the wine that we drink, the rest is imported. But we can't increase the volume of vineyards. Almost 50, says my colleague, corrects me. [[Ambassador Kováčik.]] So maybe I had the readings inaccurate or I misremembered it. But we can't increase the size of our vineyards so that we don't have to import so much that our winemakers have a job to keep our people busy. These, colleagues in this Chamber of Deputies, are the very ills of the European Union, the Brussels. And once again, some of you, especially colleagues here on the left of that pro-European social democracy, sorry, in connection with the Brexit, are going to make a list of the economic impacts that would affect us, so don't forget to count the pluses and the minuses. Not only what we lose, but also what we get. And here we see it beautifully on this example of agriculture. Again, it pays to import to us and ours doesn't pay to produce. And it's driving halfway across Europe, picking up vegetables... [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Sorry, I forgot it was factual. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u49	Thank you. And please refer to Mr Kováčik's microphone with a factual and post-disputed comment by Mr Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u50	Thank you for the floor. Yes, through Madam President, Mr Petr Bendla, your response would be logical if the treatment of the Czech producer in a European common single - and let us name it as we want - the market was balanced, equal. Go look in the same chain in Germany and look for Czech yogurt in the shelves. And in the same chain, look in the Czech Republic into the shelves of the store and look for Czech yogurt too! And you'll understand why I'm talking about stopping imports. And it is a single market, and it is our friends in the European Union who are going to raise sanctions against us when, for example, German or Polish products, we are going to have a strict eye assessment of whether they comply with Czech customs or standards, or if they are carrying them, whether they have properly pumped truck wheels or whether they have anything else. So it flows to us without any inhibition, and almost nothing gets out of us. I just want it to be measured by all the same subway, so that all the European single market with all the producers is treated equally, not that we are the consumer of almost all of Europe, when it simply cannot go to Russia or Arab countries. Everything, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u51	Thank you. Now, please, with Mr Kučera in fact, Mr Bendl will be prepared and then Mr Kalousek will be withdrawn. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u52	Thank you for the floor, I will just briefly respond to the words of my previous speaker, Mr Fiedler, who has been calling for the European Union's withdrawal here for several times. The debate here is quite possible at such an economic level, so I would like to remind Mr Fiedler, through Madam President, that the European Union is one of the largest and most successful economies in the world. Is that where you want to get out of? Maybe it's pre-oiled, maybe it's oversocialized, that has to change, I agree with that. But getting out of one of the world's largest and most successful economies, only a political lunatic can call for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u53	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Bendl's microphone with a de facto one, after which Mr Fiedler will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u54	Just a quick note again. So I did not understand Mr Fiedler's speech as a call for a withdrawal from the European Union, but a summation of the pluses and the minuses. That is, if I repeat the sentence that Pavel Kováčik said with permission here, which said "effectively prevent imports," I noted this and it will probably also be in the tapestry, then I understand the sentence, which Pavel Kováčik also said "even conditions for all." But I guess that's not exactly the same thing. I think the level playing field is right, we're supposed to be looking for them. Finding how to favor the position of our Czech producers, looking for it in less bureaucracy, in lower costs. That's where I think there's gonna be a way before there's a constant pre-shooting. And since I forgot about that in my proper application, I don't know if this is the case, I suggest we dismiss this law at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u55	Yes, thank you. And now, please, to the microphone with Mr Fiedler in fact, Mr Kováčik will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u56	I simply have to respond to Mr Kučera and thank my colleague Bendl for being able to perceive what I am saying. Through Madam President, Mr Kučera, if you find a single word in my tapestry, I will really bow down before you. But you really are a demagogist, through Madam President Kučera. I didn't say anything like that here. I was calling for us to think seriously about all the pluses and the negatives to really evaluate things. Where am I gonna go in my thoughts after this evaluation, when we get all this straightened out and clear up and set priorities, leave that to me. Don't give me anything I didn't say. You're a demagogist, Mr Kučera. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u57	Thank you and please to the microphone of Mr Kováčik, the Minister of Agriculture will prepare himself. All factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u58	Thank you for the floor. I apologize to all those who feel that this debate is delaying them. If I was talking about equal conditions for all, then if some do not respect them, or even those equal conditions do not really exist, they are just so-called. declared somewhere on some paper, or not even that, so then the self-defense takes place and every sovereign state also protects its market, not only puts it on the line for everyone. Yeah, it would be nice to have a free market, free, totally accessible to everyone, without any restrictions. But unfortunately, that doesn't exist, it's never been or ever will be, because there are restrictions. Now I'm gonna go back to writing. Those restrictions exist, those restrictions are mine. given by the strength of the community, including economic and political, and that is what it looks like. And if we judge this from this point of view, then it seems that the Czech Republic has either very little power to protect or a small will to protect its farmers and processors, or very little power to protect its farmers and processors, or simply, at least at that time, in the case of the previous governments, it just didn't give a damn. You guys just didn't give a shit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u59	Thank you and I will ask for the microphone of Minister Jurečka with a de facto, after him with a de facto Mr Gabal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u60	Thank you. I appreciate politicians from all political parties who know how to have consistent opinions and do not change their comments with the time going on, and sometimes they don't quite turn 180 degrees. I'd like to quote. 16 May 2013: Farmers called for the Minister's tax refund to be maintained. On the question of whether he will submit a proposal to the government to maintain aid for green oil, Bendl replied: Yes, at the same level as for this year. [[He's showing an article.]] Please nicely, the headline is: Bendl wants to revive the support of green diesel for farmers, Nečas is against. Former Minister, Mr President, at least hold the line and don't say anything other than what you say today three years ago! In this article, you argue and say that it is necessary to give to those farmers who do not have fields, have animal production and such things. To this day, among the agricultural public, most of them, there are funny rumors about how you were a tragic Minister of Agriculture. To be honest, the revived ODS, who is trying to rebuild and come back as the leader of the right, you've done and you've been a disgrace to this day! Stop it. I answer Mr Fiedler's questions: in the past, farmers had to keep a register, which they presented at the same time, with a standard that they were not allowed to exceed. If they crossed it, they either didn't get paid or they had to justify the reimbursement. So a simple record of where I'm doing within that month, whether it was the exports of manure, etc., has to be kept and maintained by the farmer about this register in the past. Where the oil is consumed, as the former Minister and MP Bendl asked. It is consumed not only by the fact that it imports feed, that feed vehicles go, pick up hay, pick up straw, export bedding, export kejda etc., it is all a lot more activities that consume diesel in animal production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u61	Thank you and I will ask for a microphone with a factual remark from Mr Gabal, Mr Bendl will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, I'm just starting to stop understanding what we're discussing here. I believe that we are discussing support for Czech farmers, so that they will be able to withstand relatively hard competitive conditions of the largest market and the highest quality in terms of both products and quality of life. And I'm glad that your colleague Kováčik nods through you, because I remember the times when we protected the market, and there was one plastic bag of semi-fat, one plastic bag of whole-fat, one triangle, one Madet and a cremver and a full-fat. And I wouldn't want to come back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u63	Thank you, and now please, with Mr Bendl in fact, Mr Chalupa will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u64	I don't mind the Minister's personal invectives, because he's a young man and he hasn't experienced much, I don't mind being approached through the President, but about what's here -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u65	Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry, but he approached you through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u66	I didn't hear that. However, I will be happy to comment on this in 2013 because it was the end of the financial period 2007 to 2013. I repeat what I just said here. As the support for Czech agriculture in 2005 and 2006 was set for the financial period 2007 to 2013, so there was basically no support for farmers and what was a priority for us, so it was looking for short-term solutions that were set up for the same rules that were in force in Germany at the time, and that is why green oil was set only partially to align the rules, and we assumed that the Czech Republic would set them up for the period 2014 to 2020 already so that we would not have to use such steps. A number of such rules. And the Minister of Agriculture is still profiting from them, even though he claims that this is the result of his work. It's not true. [[12.00 hours]] In this respect, therefore, the President of Agriculture, Faltýnek, who, unlike the present Minister, was right, when conditions were set and negotiations were hard with the European Union for more than a year and a half about how those conditions would be set. So what you're presenting here isn't true. We have not changed any rhetoric in this regard. We were just trying to do something at the last minute because the seven years weren't set in terms of our farmers and we were catching up on what was possible, because it was really wrong in the past. Otherwise, it's probably useless. Back to the tractor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u67	Thank you. I would now like to address Mr Kováčik's microphone with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u68	Thank you for the floor. Through Madam President, Mr Gabal. I remember when I used to go out for milk with a teapot, like a little boy, two-litre. And I almost remember when cows died of tuberculosis here. And I also remember the 1960s, 1970s, when not only did Czech, Moravian and Silesian breeding recover and a substantial increase in quality. But you, Mr Gabal, through Madam President, must remember the time when Czechoslovak state standards applied here, which were much stricter than what is now true throughout the European Union as regards food quality. As regards the protection of the health of the population. So, please, nicely, let's keep the useless political invectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u69	Thank you. Now please contact Mr. Šrámek's microphone with a proper application. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u70	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to announce in advance that I am in conflict of interest. However, allow me also to comment on this subject. I was inspired to speak by Mr Urban, who asked the layman to explain what the problem is in agriculture. As a person who has been in this for a long time, let me outline and explain what the issue is. In 2004, we adopted the so-called system mostly payments per hectare. 70% of payments go per hectare. This very treacherous system was long ago tried in 1981, for example, in Greece. In 1981 Greece accepted the so-called SAPS, or simplied payments, and introduced a simplified payment per hectare. In fact, this crucially priority has been given to plant production and the destruction of livestock production. Today, after some 35 years, Greece is importing over 80 percent of food. After 12 years of accession to the European Union, we are almost close to 50 percent of food imports. If we maintain this system for the future, we will be a few years later - and I have read the vision of the Ministry of Agriculture by 2030. I think, Minister, that in 2030 you can add a sentence that we will import 80 per cent of food if we do not change this very sick system. This system mainly favours the production of plant production, which almost or almost employs a very small number of people, compared to animal production about five times less. To breed animals, cattle and others, you need zoo technicians... many people who move around, you have to take care of animals, their health, etc. etc. And that's a lot of work. And, of course, farmers do, above all, where there is less work and more profit. And that's what this system prefers. The Western EU has not had this system, and it does not yet have it. Let me just give you an example of one country. And before that, I'm going to say, the payments per hectare are, as a percentage, in a much smaller representation than, for example, the payment to the VDJ, the cattle unit, to balance the manure into the field. For example, following the abolition of milk quotas that were abolished last April, Belgium increased milk production by 35 percent. Their subsidies are completely different. For example, they have EUR 15 per tonne of manure exported to the field, which, of course, protects their fields because they want it to be long-term profitable and fertile. When someone at the farm produces something and drives these products directly to the shops, they get CZK 22 per kilometre for driving it there. For example, if I compare this with our farm, which also has its own production plant, this difference totals CZK 8.5 million a year. I'm not talking about the other things they set up. However, the Czech Republic has an advantage in the fact that businesses are large. Of course, we have a high concentration of both plant and animal production from before, and only because we have such a high concentration, and therefore we have very low fixed costs compared to, for example, farmers in Germany, that is why we are still surviving. But in the long run, it won't be possible if this system doesn't change. As for the destruction of herds, as somebody said. The destruction of herds and, in fact, the decline in livestock production did not begin with the abolition of the embargo and the end of milk quotas. This liquidation began a long time ago. In 1990, we had over a million milk cows. Today we have 360 thousand, and it is expected that after today's animal crisis, there will be a decline of about 10 to 20 percent if something does not change significantly and the Ministry of Agriculture will not help us. As far as the subsidy system is concerned, yes, agriculture has a subsidy compared to other sectors. But it is because the subsidies were already made by the former fifteen, or the European Union simply introduced them. And if we don't have them, we won't be competitive. If it were up to me, I would immediately cancel 80 percent of all agricultural subsidies. But everywhere! Not just us, but France, Germany, Belgium... And then maybe what would happen is that they didn't tie us up with food, but that we would tie them up with food. So we unfortunately - unfortunately - have to have the subsidies, but we really have them set wrong. Someone else mentioned that we had an overhang of milk. We don't have overhangs of milk. Or virtually. we have very small and other countries have far, far greater. Let me just get a couple of numbers. In the Czech Republic, 75 litres of milk per 100 hectares are produced. In Germany, 320 litres per 100 hectares are produced and 620 litres per 100 hectares are produced in Holland. I just want to point out that it's not just about the milk. Of course, cows also produce organic matter, which continues to drive into the field. And in agriculture, it is very important that the burden on livestock units per hectare is as high as possible so that the organic matter returns to the fields and the fields are fertile for a long time. We have about 0.5 cattle units per hectare. The Holanďan have 1.7 cattle units. The Holanďan have always been very smart farmers. Finally, the beef business in Brazil was started by the Holanďan. When the green oil was mentioned here, you know, animal production this year is going to be about 11 billion at a negative, the most optimistic of about 7.5 billion at a negative. Green oil of 400 million is a statistical deviation. It's a little band-aid for a big hole. Someone was talking about the farmers stealing and going around the green oil. The green oil control system is very complex, Minister of Agriculture, it is very complex, and very few already know about it. Many countries that put in green oil and have it, so they go to the flats: they go to the flats per hectare, they go to the flats at the VDJ. Nothing has to be controlled. Customs doesn't have to spend five days with us every two years checking everything out. And when someone just has machines that use less diesel, they make money off it if they have old machines that consume more diesel, they don't, of course, make money off it. But these flats are simple, and they can't be abused. [[12.10 hours]] So I would ask that the decree, if possible, be approved by this law, which, of course, I recommend, but, as a small band-aid for a large wound, be simplified. As far as food imports are concerned. Again. You know, limiting food imports is very simple, but you must not forget that the Czech Republic is an export economy. We export almost 80 percent, and, for example, if we restrict imports of certain foods, perhaps the Němec will limit our car exports, and that would certainly not be good for our budget and our economy. So once again, I stress, it's not the import problem, it's the whole system. This means that we must support the system so that it is competitive with the Belgičan, the Francouz and the Němec, so that it is, if possible, the same or very similar. So in conclusion, let me just sum up. Our system of payment per hectare, which primarily prefers growing plant products such as corn into biogas, is very widespread in our country, rape, barley into breweries, grain that we export, and that is practically everything. Lucerne, clover and other and other things that they keep very, I would say, very sensitive to the soil, disappears with the disappearance of the animals that of course consume it, and farmers prefer to produce market crops that they can then sell rather than produce non-market crops such as alfalfa and clover that the cows eat and the farmers have nothing to do with it. So it's just for me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u71	Thank you, Mr Šrámek. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. With a factual remark, Mr Milan Urban. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u72	I would just like to thank my fellow Member, Mr Šrámek, because I think this is what the debate on agriculture in Parliament is supposed to look like, and not the way it was done before, when representatives of various political parties, who said what, did not say if he lied or lied about what the cows did or did and will do. I think it's a serious matter, and I thank you for the excursion to agriculture. I listened very carefully and I hope that in four years, in five, in ten people will not sit here and deal with the crisis of Czech agriculture again by looking for a small band-aid for a big blow, as Mr Šrámek said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u73	I thank Mr Urban. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. Not interested? The rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u74	I'll just be very brief. Let me sum up the debate. In addition to the expected discussion on the suitability of this instrument to help Czech farmers, the House also held a debate on the state of Czech agriculture, interesting contributions were made on the flatulence of cows, Mr Kováčik appealed to possible restrictions on imports. As rapporteur here, it is not quite clear to me how this could be done, but since Mr Kováčik, as he himself informed us, was going for milk with a pot, perhaps they will come up with something. [[Fun.]] There was a motion in the debate to reject, which I, as rapporteur, recommend.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u75	Thank you. As the rapporteur said, a motion was made by Mr Bendl to reject the proposal in the debate. I will call our fellow Members from the lobby and we will vote on the motion to reject the proposal. I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will be voting on the motion to reject the proposed bill. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of rejection, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 219 vote, 157 Members and Members registered, for 31, against 121. The motion to dismiss has not been accepted. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. By its decision, the President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed to order the motion submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest a commandment to another guarantee committee? It's not like that. Initiating vote... [[Objection - was reported by the messenger. A blacksmith.]] I'm sorry, I declare the vote misguided. Chairman Kováčik. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u76	Thank you, Mr President. I promise I'll report louder next time. I propose ordering this material as a committee to the agricultural guarantee committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Although I repeatedly criticize the noise in the Chamber of Deputies here, please report quietly in such a case. We will therefore vote first on the commandment to the agricultural committee as a guarantee, which is the counterproposal of President Kováčik. I am opening the vote on the commandment to the agricultural committee as a guarantee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 221; 161 Members and Members are registered, for 118, against 20. The motion was accepted. I note that we have ordered this bill to the agricultural committee as a guarantee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to any further committee for discussion. Please, does anyone have a motion for another committee to discuss? President Laudat. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u78	Thank you. I propose a budget committee. For God's sake, it's taxes!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-005-223.u79	The Committee on Budgets. Anybody else on the committee? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on President Laudát's proposal that this proposal should also be directed to the Committee on Budgets. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the number 222 vote, 163 Members are registered, for 83, against 25. The motion was accepted. I note that the proposal has been directed to the agricultural committee as a guarantee and budget committee for further discussion. [[Objection.]] Checking the votes again. [[After a while:]] I'm asking if there's any interest in controlling the vote? It's not like that. If no one is interested in controlling the vote, I am ending the first reading of this bill. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is:
