ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-006-060.u1	60. Government bill on health protection against harmful effects of addictive substances /house print 828/ - first reading according to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. On behalf of the Government, the proposed proposal will be presented by the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-006-060.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce the Government's bill on health protection against the harmful effects of addictive substances. The draft law is a response to the coalition board's decision of 27 May 2016 to re-submit a proposal of the so-called anti-smoking law, in order to reject the original government bill, submitted to the Chamber of Deputies as House press No. 508, third reading at a meeting held on 25 May 2016. On 30 May 2016, the Government unanimously approved the new bill. The current draft law is based on the text of the House's press No. 508 as amended by the agreed third reading amendments, with the exception of Mr Marek Benda's amendment, which introduced constructionally separate smoking areas in the internal area of catering establishments, the so-called smoking place. In the draft law, minor amendments to the text were also made in addition to the original government proposal, so that it would be factually and logically linked. I would now sum up the most fundamental changes compared to the original government bill, reflecting the Chamber of Deputies supported by the amendments. This is an exception to the total ban on smoking in food services establishments consisting in authorising the use of water pipes - Mr Plíšek's amendment, and the use of electronic cigarettes - Mr Benda's amendment. In the public of freely accessible internal spaces, passages of department stores, offices, etc., smoking shops will continue to be set up, building separate smoking areas - Mr Krákora's amendment. The ban on smoking is now being extended to exposed public transport stops - an amendment to the Constitutional Legal Committee of the Chamber of Deputies. The ban on smoking will also apply in the zoo, with the exception of the external area reserved for smoking - the amendment of the Constitutional Legal Committee of the Chamber of Deputies in combination with the amendment of Mr Krákora. In public sporting events, it will be possible to sell alcoholic beverages not only containing a maximum of 4.3 % of alcohol but also wine - an amendment by Mr Petr. A circle of places or events where occasional alcoholic beverages can be sold, wine tastings, spirits, tastings of partially fermented grape must, traditional and similar events, farmers' or traditional markets - Mr Petr's amendment. [[18.20 hours]] Having regard to the fact that the bill also includes a regulation of the European Union, namely the Tobacco Products Directive, where the transposition period has already expired on 20 May 2016, and at the same time because the proposal is based on the wording of the previous Government proposal, which has been modified to comply with the vast majority of amendments supported by the Chamber of Deputies in its deliberations, I would like to ask the Chamber of Deputies on behalf of the Government to give its consent to the bill at first reading. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this legislation will contribute to improving the situation of protection against addictive substances and will have a positive impact on the health of the population. That is why I believe you will support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-006-060.u3	Thank you and now with priority rights Vice-President of ODS Jana Černochová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-006-060.u4	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. I don't think I'm going to surprise anyone by bringing in the veto of two MPs, ODS and TOP 09.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-006-060.u5	Yes. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Jaroslav Krákora. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-006-060.u6	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will speak extremely briefly today because on 25 May I have spoken for 40 minutes here and I think I am all important about smoking, how it is harmful to health, what statistics are, he said. The amendments were summarised by Minister Němeček, so I will not repeat myself, I will not delay. At the end of the short news report, smoking is proven to be harmful to health, and it is not normal to smoke, but it is normal not to smoke. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-006-060.u7	Thank you, and at this point, I am opening up a general debate in which I am registering two applications. Mr Klán's microphone, Mr Heger will be prepared with the first, please. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-006-060.u8	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, Madam Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen. Once again, we have a media called anti-smoking law, although the law is, of course, about protecting public health. I must say that this proposal, which has now arrived here after the last shipwreck, is already better worked out, where the various amendments that have been adopted here by this Chamber of Deputies are also incorporated. However, I probably won't be able to vote in favour of this law if there is no amendment that will regulate the regulation of smoking bans in restaurants. I cannot imagine, on the one hand, that there would be a complete regulation of the ban on smoking in restaurants, bars, pubs, in these various facilities. What makes me say that? For one thing, foreign experience leads me to this. I went through the summer months, July and August, to see Slovakia, Austria and Germany how they were adjusting it. It's right here in front of me. Of course, I'm going to get that first complaint out of Austria right now, because Austria has legal regulation since 1995, Federal Law No. 431, on the production, sale and advertising of tobacco products and the protection of non-smokers, so-called tobacco law, as amended. It says that there is a general ban on smoking in bars and restaurants, with the following exceptions. Firstly, there may be separate and isolated smoking plants in establishments larger than 50 m2. However, they must not occupy more than 50 per cent of the area intended for non-smokers. Secondly, smoking may be permitted in one room between 50 and 80 m2 if the owner proves that the creation of a separate and isolated smoker is not possible due to construction regulations. Thirdly, establishments less than 50 m2 may decide whether to be fully smoking or non-smoking. Then there are other provisions such as that pregnant women and persons under 18 years of age may not work in areas where they may come into contact with tobacco smoke. Staff members may request the payment of severance payments if they terminate their employment on account of tobacco smoke exposure. I know that some doctors here will say that Austria will have a total ban on smoking since May 2018. But ladies and gentlemen, it took Austria more than 20 years to complete a smoking ban. And I can't imagine that if we put in place a total ban on smoking, he'd really follow it across the board. In my opinion, it won't follow, and the ban will only be formal. Because it seems to me to be a general regulation from the European Union. It's something on a similar principle. Therefore, I would in some way intercede for the Austrian model. After all, we have historical conventions with them, even cultural ones. Then I will show you that we also have historical and cultural ties in Slovakia, Poland, Germany, and I think it would be easier to introduce such regulation. And then maybe do some research on how it had an impact on the operators, the owners, but also on the visitors themselves of these different facilities. And although Austria has introduced a total ban on smoking since May 2018, there will still be one exception, namely that hotels will be able to set up 30 percent of smoking rooms, of course without operators, there will still be an exception. But there has been a certain benevolence in our country since 2005, when owners can basically do what they want, and they may not even be fully labeled before entering the facility which they are. Whether smoking is permitted, or whether smoking is prohibited, or whether there is a structurally separate space for smokers and non-smokers. There's a benevolence. And I've made it clear in the media sometime in the summer that I mind going from one extreme to the other extreme. That means we now have a total benevolence, and now we go to the second extreme, a total ban. It seems to me precisely because the total ban, although I don't personally have a problem with it, because I am a non-smoking and smoking, of course, is harmful to health, so I can't imagine that this would be respected. I mean, who's gonna check it out? And then I'll give you an example here. For example, one village, you have one pub, I'm not going to say what price categories, maybe five, and there's, say, a hundred people in the village, 90 of them. We're gonna order the owner or the operator, what kind of equipment is he supposed to have? I don't know. It's possible, too. I'm not resisting it, but let's try to think about this option as well. I know it's a rather extreme example, but it's also real. Then, of course, if we introduce a total ban, there's gonna be some sort of attempt to get around it a little bit. And maybe the pubs will become clubs. I can tell the experience of my own village where the pub became a club. Everyone got a chip card, got a club card, and went to a closed company, where they smoked like a treadmill. And I went there knowing I'd smell it anyway, and I'd ruin my health, and I'd go to those friends I wanted to see, and they're smokers. So, in my opinion, the pubs are gonna be clubs. But let's take a look at Slovakia. I was also in Slovakia in the summer and there is legal regulation, Act No. 377/2004 Coll., on the Protection of Non-Smokers, as amended. Slovenská úpravy differentiates the regime for restaurants, public catering facilities and bars. Smoking in restaurants is possible in separate rooms, which must not occupy more than 50 per cent of the area of the restaurant and must be isolated from the rest of the establishment. No smoking is prohibited in establishments where food - bars - is not served. However, they may decide to be non-smoking. I can tell you that when I asked in a restaurant about the smoking ban, they told me it was forbidden to smoke here until 9:00 p.m., then the kitchen closes down, that part of the restaurant closes down and becomes a bar, and it can already smoke there normally. So there's another version of how our neighbors are adjusting it. During the summer I had an analysis of the Parliamentary Institute, when I asked them to work out how it looks in Germany, Denmark, Poland, Sweden and Switzerland. To look west, of course, so that I wouldn't be blamed for turning east again, because this discussion was already going on here when the law was first discussed here. When we look at Denmark, Denmark again distinguishes restaurants - bars. Restaurant, no smoking except smoking or smoking cabins. Smoking shall not be permitted in establishments greater than 40 m2. Smoking may be allowed in such premises only in smoking or smoking cabins. Food must not be served in smoking rooms or smoking booths. The premises up to 40 m2 may allow smoking at their discretion. [[18.30 hours]] If we look at Germany, the regulation is issued at the level of the Länder, which usually allow smoking in separate rooms and exclude from smoking ban small establishments. The absolute ban on smoking in bars and restaurants applies in Sársko, North Rhine-Westphalia and Bavaria. If we look at Poland, smoking is prohibited except smoking exclusively for smoking. In facilities with at least two rooms, one of them may be intended for smokers if it is equipped with ventilation to ensure that tobacco smoke does not penetrate other rooms. Food can be served in these areas. If we look at Sweden, which is announced by its social model of the welfare state, smoking is prohibited in all establishments where food or drink is served. Smoking is permitted only in outdoor areas or in special rooms which are equipped with ventilation and are intended for smoking. It is not possible to bring food and drink into these spaces. If we look at Switzerland to have another model, it is modified here at canton level, some cantons allow smoking in small bars and rooms that do not serve food and drink and which are equipped with the necessary ventilation. When the law was discussed here six months ago, someone argued that 70 percent of the population is in our terms for a total ban on smoking. I've been looking for this sociological research. I didn't find him anywhere, ladies and gentlemen. She was a survey of one server, iDNES.cz, and the survey is not sociological research. The only sociological research that was carried out was exactly a year ago, and it was done by the Center for Public Opinion Research. I printed it here, and I'll introduce you to it. Of course, this is a year-old thing that may not be so relevant today, but it certainly hasn't changed as much in a year as if it had changed over five years. The research was from September 2015. It implemented the Center for Public Opinion Research, the Sociological Institute, which I think is a relevant sociological agency that we can trust, and we can also trust the date. In September 2015 our company examined the opinions of citizens on the prohibition of smoking in restaurant facilities in the framework of a regular CVVM investigation. Text of the question: Are you in favour or against the introduction of a total ban on smoking in restaurant facilities? Variants of answer: definitely for, rather for, rather against, definitely against. Almost three fifths of the Czech public a year ago, i.e. 58 percent, would have agreed to ban smoking in restaurants, with more than a third of citizens over 15 years of age, 35 percent, definitely in favour of introducing this ban. On the other hand, less than two fifths, 38%, opposed such a ban, with less than one fifth, 18 percent, even strongly opposed the approval of a total ban on smoking in restaurants. Here you can see from the example of this survey that it's still fifty-fifty. If you asked a different question, for example, whether you were in favour of building separate smoking shops in restaurants, they would also answer you in a completely different way and the research would be different again. Of course, I have no problem with the total ban on smoking, but in my opinion, our company is still divided. That's why I'm leaning here towards a partial regulation following the pattern of Austria. I will prepare about four amendments for the second reading that will reflect these models. They will reflect both the Austrian model and the Slovak model, as well as the model for Germany, where it is said that, for example, the non-smoking part must be the first at the entrance to the catering facilities and then it must be only a constructionally separated room for smokers, which must of course be ventilated. When I was looking for our country to see how the anti-smoking law of 2005 works in our quotation marks, when the time regulation ended when the smoking ban was in effect at the time of lunch, and when I passed some restaurants, I found that many operators or owners had already adjusted themselves whether they wanted to have smoking or non-smoking equipment. They have it at the entrance to the facility, and they can regulate it in a certain way. They're targeting a clientele that suits them. Of course, I found the parts that are for smokers, and my colleague Vondrášek will tell me the truth when we were also looking at one restaurant, there you won't even know you're sitting in the smoking section, because it's so ventilated today that you won't even smell it. Even the air conditioning has made a lot of major changes today than it was ten, 15 years ago. I'm clearly saying that I'm in favour of regulation, I'm in favour of regulating smoking bans because it's a bad habit, but if the promoter is going to want to reduce consumption or in some way smoke tobacco products, that's not true. And the sociological data from Western Europe clearly states that. When everyone went there to try to protect public health, to reduce the consumption of cigarettes, nothing happened at all. It stayed the same. Everyone was smoking at home or out there. So, of course, I understand the intention of the Ministry of Health to protect the health of non-smokers, but we also need to look at this from the perspective of other stakeholders involved who are dealing with the ban on smoking in restaurants, which are operators or owners. Since this issue will also concern a lot of small establishments, small pubs, it would be worth considering whether this press will also order the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, where we have also dealt with this problem. When I remember the fact that I was unable to get representatives from the petitioner to answer whether the law would apply to clubs, and they said it wouldn't apply, it seems to me that here we are really introducing something, a general regulation of the ban on smoking, which is not going to be observed in the finals anyway. And if anything, I'd like to know who's gonna control it in the community. There'll be one, two pubs. Who's gonna check to see if anybody set fire to it? One more question for the very end. I'll have after closing hours. I'm gonna have to set fire to the visitors who are there, lock up and smoke. There's gonna be a checkup. Is something going to happen to me? Answer yourself, ladies and gentlemen. That's all I'm saying, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-006-060.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, have a nice evening. I, too, thank you, Mr Member, and I will ask another member of the debate, and that is Mr Leoš Heger, and Mr Marek Benda will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-006-060.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, fellow Members, allow me to apply to the same idea that the rapporteur has already said here that practically everything has been said about the meaning and consequences of this law in the previous debate and it is time to move the law in some way and vote as soon as possible. I would therefore simply, with permission, recall the complete general principles on which the law is built. Because I have no doubt when I see two recorded speakers after me, and I am almost certain that there will still be many words on the subject of regulation in general and the rape of a person and his rights. I am fully aware that we are living at a time when regulation is really too much, and it must be said that we only have to choose the most important ones, because, unfortunately, human society cannot do without regulation, but it does too much harm. [[18.40 hours]] As regards health care, which has already tried to produce this law several times, and this time may be nearing its successful end, health has the fight against smoking as the first fight that requires regulation and considers it to be the most important. And when you see statistics that say that people between the ages of 40 and 70 die 15 to 20 years before people who live healthy and do not expose themselves to the risk of smoking, you must recognize that our health system, which is very dependent on money, needs additional impulses, not only health services money, but also other impulses in fighting for a healthier life, which can help health care often more intensively than just other and more improvements in services. So in this atmosphere, it's no wonder the health department enforces the law. The TOP 09, like any other political party on this soil, is, of course, split. There will be people who will vote against the law, but there are a number of people who will support the law. And I wanted to say this speech because as a medic, I feel obliged to mention all these reasons here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-006-060.u11	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Benda, with his application, will now be prepared by Mr Bendl. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-006-060.u12	Mr Vice-President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur is reminding me - briefly. I'm not sure I'm able to promise this, but on the other hand, I certainly don't want to keep this place dramatically. It's not in any way my concern. And you know I've been helpful all along. I tried very constructively to move him back, and it was not my fault that the ANO movement crashed, which suddenly denounced the coalition agreement to Minister Němeček and told him at the last moment that he would not vote for such a bill passed by this House. I was a little upset by Professor Vyzula's chair of the Health Committee that the anti-smoking law had become a smoking law. So I say that the sentence is not true, because then we would have to say that most of Europe has smoking laws. In addition to what Mr Klán quoted here, I had all European countries researched on purpose. It is true that almost all European countries, with the exception of Germany, which has it at local levels, regulate smoking in bars and restaurants. On the other hand, it is true that the vast majority of European countries have some kind of liberalisation. It has mostly bans with the possibility of smoking of a different nature. I could quote it here, but maybe I'll keep it until the committee meeting, or maybe. at the meeting at second reading. But it's because somewhere they have within 50 metres of a free decision, somewhere they have the possibility of separate smoking shops, somewhere with a valet, somewhere without a valet, somewhere with a limited space. But it is not true that most of Europe has total bans without any exception. This is where we try to be more papal than the Pope. And I have repeatedly pointed out in the previous discussions of this bill that I consider it a huge mistake, which will only lead to us pushing smokers out on the street. That's all that's gonna happen in real life. These people won't stop smoking. And instead of giving them an air vent inside, which goes into the chimney and goes over the rooftops of the house, we're forcing them to climb the street. And now, for example, Prague 1, but Jana Černochová could certainly tell long stories in Prague 2, desperately discussing how to regulate people on the streets tonight or how to deal with the fact that they are currently coming out of restaurants. They usually come out to smoke, bring in some more beer or wine, and the result is that it stinks in those small streets of densely settled Czech cities and that there is noise. So I very much ask this House, especially those 94 Members who voted in favour of this last time, who have concluded that it is a reasonable idea to approve smoking shops so that they do not be fooled by the hysteria that erupted in part of the leaders of the government coalition just after the bill has failed, and that, in accordance with common sense, we may wonder if any type of liberating should not be included in this bill. And I don't really care if it's 25 percent or 30 percent, if it's a separate room, completely separated without service. I tried to design the strictest model from European views, without operator, with separate ventilation. I don't think it's a model that dramatically harms anyone else. It just leads to the possibility of smoking in a ventilated room and not going out on the street. That's my first comment on so-called. separate smoking shops and what I think is still waiting for us between the first and second readings. Second comment - and this is a question for the Minister of Health. There's one thing I really don't understand. The Government will approve the bill precisely as approved by the Chamber of Deputies, with the exception of Mr Benda's proposal. I understand that political decision is the top of the government coalition, all Members are equal, only Benda is less equal. I'm used to it for life, and I don't mind in any way. So I can deal with that. But why the government, virtually. The Ministry of Health changed its effectiveness from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2016, unless it is some boycott that has been done to the Minister behind his back by his officials, it is a fact that is absolutely incomprehensible to me. Absolutely. Plus, it doesn't go into 31. 12. 2016 to make it. I would have expected efficiency to shift to best case 1. 7. 2017. But why does someone move a day of efficiency when he forgets that the Minister really has those militants who may have wanted to ruin New Year's Silvestr? This is the only meaningful and explainable reason I see in this that this group of totally militant non-smokers and abstinences wanted to make this year's New Year's Silvestr unpleasant, whether smoking or drinking. I have no other explanation for this shift in efficiency. I think we have to move with effect anyway. These are not very simple modifications that will be proposed, including marking, including a number of other things. I think there's got to be some legisvacance at least. We can't pretend to approve it in the middle of December, and it will apply from 1 January. This is a comment on the proposal as submitted. Now I will draw attention to a few of the problems that I think remain in the bill's proposal despite the relatively sincere efforts of this Chamber of Deputies at least the greatest errors and insanity introduced by militants of the Ministry of Justice (?), otherwise I won't call them, solve them. I think this House has moved a lot. And notice, from now on, I'll be talking almost exclusively about alcohol. Smoking doesn't concern my notes. I said I thought it would be right to have a smoker. But I want to draw attention to the mistakes that are in the alcohol part and which are still there and which will lead to us either approving a law that we will all know from the beginning that it will not be respected, which I think is the worst thing we can do in the country, and unfortunately, frankly, in the regulation of smoking and alcohol, it is one of the big problems that exists today and which today admits and says on television as well as the drug coordinator who says: in every supermarket they will eventually sell alcohol to children. And instead of enforcing the existing laws, they still say so-called. More perfect and more perfect with the feeling that when we write something into the law, it changes the world. The exact opposite is true, most of the world can laugh about it. [[18.50 hours]] So here I would like to point out, as I said in past readings, fortunately, we have managed to easily tear up all this nonsense that we can't pour. However, here in the last discussion, Mr Hovorka had a very positive proposal, which said: A total ban on pouring in adults should concern those who are in such a state that they threaten themselves, others or property. Unfortunately, at that time the proposal was unvoting because it broke up with the rapporteur's proposals and the procedure could not be sufficiently tuned. However, I still think that in § 11 para. 7 we still have to make a change. The idea that we are really seriously letting out of this House "is forbidden to sell alcoholic beverages to a person obviously affected by alcohol or other addictive substances" is what I think we are making fun of the nation either, or we say that the law will not be followed. Who do you sell alcoholic beverages to in a restaurant? Mostly people obviously affected. Most people go there to appear to be affected by alcoholic beverages. Some people go there for other reasons, but there are people who go there to drink. It's a social thing. If we go that way that the wording of Section 18 would be repeated, i.e. that it is in a state where it threatens itself or other or property or public order, then I think it is meaningful and correct to sell the ban. A general ban on selling, and under basically draconian sanctions... I really wonder how it's going to be fulfilled, who's going to be standing there - city police, state police, or I don't know who's going to be standing in that pub and saying, well, he and he are obviously already affected by two beers, he and he are obviously already affected by four beers, so, Mr. Innkeeper, pay fines. I think that is something that we should go back to and correct in the spirit of what Mr Hovorka said in the previous discussion. The second thing that I think got there was a fact that was extremely unhappy and that makes no sense at all, it comes from amendments that were desperately trying to defend something here, but in the end the solution is very illogical. If we say that at sports events alcoholic drinks are allowed in 4.3 degrees ethanol and wine, let's say something more normal. Let's say beer and wine, but if we say ten, yeah, but not twelve, but wine does... Because somebody's been lobbying. I think those laws should really have some kind of internal logic, we could say 12 degrees, up to 15 degrees. I understand you don't want hard alcohol, but when it's said there's supposed to be wine, I find it completely nonsense to forbid a 12. These are just the little things that I will then draw attention to in the final discussion and where I will want changes, and I firmly hope that both the Minister and the rapporteur can hear me and see that I do not want to harm that I am really pointing out things that seem illogical to me. But I'll take a few more notes on the administrative offences. In general, administrative offences and, in particular, those administrative offences of natural persons. In the past, we did not have enough time to deal with the offences in the context of the negotiations and the fights that were going on around it. In general, I am unhappy at how individual resorts in total resortism write increasingly stricter and stricter sanctions for, frankly, basically completely banal administrative offences. We had a dispute here about the new criminal law, where I said 50 grand fines, which suddenly rise from 5 grand, a fine of 20 grand for insulting the clerk and other things. Those are things I wouldn't do. And here I have the impression that we've also gotten ourselves into a full-grown form. If I just take the right offenses, virtually. offenses of natural persons, then maybe even look at administrative offences of legal and entrepreneurial natural persons - but these are administrative offences of natural persons, not those who have an establishment, whether themselves or as the owner. But he's the one who's selling at the plant at the time, or some other person. And you will look at Section 35, where the actual fines are up to 300,000, increased fines for selling under 15 years of age to a minor, but also a normal fine for selling under 18 cigarettes or alcohol to a minor for a natural person, not for a business that does so normally, but for a salesman who doesn't ask for an I.D., there are 150,000. Up to 150,000. This is a liquidation penalty for most people in this country. A liquidation ticket that no one has a chance to kidnap. I understand we're trying to make that law.... I understand we're trying to force the law, but I think we're overreacting here. [[Water was brought to the speaker]] Similarly, point (k): sells or submits an alcoholic beverage to a person who can reasonably be expected to consume an alcoholic beverage at a later date and subsequently pursue an activity in which, given the previous ingestion of an alcoholic beverage, he could endanger human health or damage property. A fine of 10,000, good, not so high - but up to a year's ban on activity. Year of no action. Do you know what a year of prohibition is for a physical person? It's not a business person. When you say to the pingle, "Well, you poured the chauffeur who sat down, we're giving you 8,000 bottles... but a year of no action, you're shutting him out of his normal life. I'm not really sure this is premeditated enough. The same applies to what I have already pointed out: It sells an alcoholic drink to a person obviously affected by alcohol or other addictive substances, an adult who is only obviously affected by alcohol or other addictive substances. I've been pointing out here in the past, pointing out again that this is awfully complicated one who can already be said to be influenced, that I can clearly recognize the criterion that he's already dangerous to himself or someone else, but a lot of people are drinking to be clearly affected. Honestly, I don't know who in this honored hall sometimes didn't drink to be clearly affected, and he doesn't feel like having a waiter say to him after a second drink: "Well, seriously, sorry, I can't pour you any more, because I'm facing a year's ban. I would ask that we order this bill, in addition to the Health Committee and the Constitutional Legal Committee. Now, I'm not gonna argue about smoking, I'm gonna leave it up to the House, but to think about sanctions, if those sanctions really aren't too draconian, and if they're not too much of a character that they can be liquidated. [[19.00 hours]] Then I find it at least funny if, together with a fine, a ban on activities under two years of age can be imposed on a natural person under two years of age if the offence referred to in paragraph 1 (o) or (p). And now when we read the letters o) and p), the letter o) says: someone, a person drinks or uses another addictive substance, although he knows that he will perform an activity in which he or she could endanger his or her or another person's life or health or damage property. It's quite common in automotive. That's where we know there's a danger, there's a special arrangement. But here I say to any person who drinks himself, could potentially do some activity where it could endanger health or property, but also like driving a wheelbarrow after construction or something like that, and I admit that for this person I will give two years of prohibition again. I don't know if that's thoughtful. I really don't know if it's thoughtful, not to mention that it's letter p, which says up to two years of no activity for a person who refuses to undergo an orientation examination... For example, the orientation exam will be for if I'm not drunk enough to have to pay a ticket for a tram ride. It says here if I'm drunk enough to threaten myself or the neighborhood or anything else, I can't take a tram or a train. I don't really understand, but there may be an indicative examination for that. I'm still able to understand that. But if I refuse to submit to him, I won't get a penalty for being... but they can ban me for two years. And that's probably what I'm doing. It's not a sale. That's emancipation, solicitation, doctoring. I don't know what kind of profession any of us have. Well, that seems completely inadequate so that I can be banned from my activities for refusing to undergo a breath examination for the presence of alcohol or other addictive substances. This may be in some special cases when I'm a driver. I get it, I can't sit behind the wheel with alcohol and addictive substances. However, I have this specifically regulated in the Act on the Conditions of Traffic on the Roads, but I do not need to have it modified in this bill and I do not have to have it modified by this dict, which de facto admits that any activity may be prohibited from me. So I'd like to ask you to look at the sanctions in the course of the hearing. Now I don't want to discuss the administrative offences of legal and enterprising legal entities, because there's a lot going on, too, because the fines are also extremely high. But we can talk about the fact that if I'm really importing or breaking something systematically, but especially for those individuals, it seems awfully inadequate to go with such high fines. But of course everyone will say, it's from zero to 150 grand. But if I have a fine of 150,000, I don't think it's gonna be based on someone giving me a thousand crowns, that doesn't make any sense. So here I think we should still look at the fines and try to clean up this penalty part in some way. So to sum up, I'm going to suggest smoking again. She will be at this House, and I will persuade her at second reading to maintain her consistent position and not to be influenced. I ask that in the alcohol part we expel some of the illogicalities that have already been indicated in the past between the second and third readings, but which have not been achieved. And I ask that we take a close look at that part of the penalty, so that we do not overdo sanctions and eliminate unnecessary human lives for basically - frankly - quite banal offenses. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-006-060.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I note one factual remark made by Mr Milan Brázdil. [[Shouting from the O.R.]] I'm begging you, don't shout at yourself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-006-060.u14	I won't hold up. Ladies and gentlemen, these paradoxes are terrible. Imagine, here's where the promoter says, "No smoking is normal." So you know what we're gonna do? We're gonna drive the smokers out, and you guys just put up with it. This is not a law that helps me. I'm a non-smoker, a non-smoker. And when someone says it's normal not to smoke here, I have to say it's normal to drink alcohol in this republic. I know something about that as an air or ambulance doctor or a doctor who goes to people's shelters. That won't solve any problems. Once again, just a question. Is something done for me as a non-smoking person to stay on the sidewalk in public space? Is the law working for me too, please? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-006-060.u15	Thank you. And now duly signed up Mr Petr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-006-060.u16	Thank you for the floor. Marek Benda said a lot, a lot of what I wanted to say too, so I'm not gonna say it again. But I'm gonna start with my foreman's answer. The law solves it there, that maybe a smoking person at a stop from you in the opposite direction of the ride can stand from five meters away and following the direction of the ride 30 meters away. It says this way at the bus stop, they'll protect you. In our village, people will laugh about it, as Marek Benda suggested, because many of these things, as they are written, will be hard to control, or will not be controlled by anyone. The law will apply, but it will be almost unenforceable. One of the previous speakers mentioned it here when he asked who would actually control it. The law has dealt with it just as it says, transferring the obligation to the one who controls it is also the waiter who, under almost liquidation of the life penalty, will be obliged to escort the person out. And if he doesn't, he'll probably be obliged to report him somewhere, because otherwise he's committing an administrative offense, as described there. So the law actually forces anyone who doesn't know they're breaking, for example, a drink or a 12-stage beer on a football field or an object that's part of a football field, at a time when it's not playing, but since it's a sports grounds for sport, there's a ban on alcohol in the law. This means that even at a time when the sports grounds are not being used and they want to make a private party for example for the members of the group and so on, the law puts them at risk of being severely sanctioned for having alcohol in the sports grounds with more than 4.3 percent ethanol or having something harder than wine. I guess I wouldn't surprise anyone if I said that I would rather promote a form that, after all, promotes itself in the Czech Republic, there is a growing restaurant where it is forbidden to smoke by virtue of the decision of the owner or owner or operator of the restaurant where it is forbidden to smoke. Proven the restaurants are growing, and those restaurants are dedicated to creating a good or ever better environment for those who come to eat and are bothered by smoking. But they also create an environment for those who don't want to get rid of their habit, so they try to solve this thing within their technical capabilities by creating, building a structurally detachable space where those smokers can be. That's why I'd appeal if someone already has the space, created it, and it's an unattended area, which means we're not even forcing any of the staff--
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-006-060.u17	I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, for entering your speech, but I'm going to ask my colleagues and colleagues who have a need to deal with something, so go to the lobby. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-006-060.u18	- to enter the smoking room. Then I see no reason why we could not allow such a thing in that law, as many other European countries have it in their legislation. For me, the principle that the owner decides is the best principle. But I see that most of the Chamber of Deputies want to reject this principle, they want to talk to the operators and owners of restaurants about how they're going to make a living, and whether or not they're going to adapt space to those non-smokers, so that they can secure some business for the restaurant. I, as a man who is from a small village, where after all now, at the end of August, the pub closed, because when he saw all that is pouring on him and that the locals go there mainly for a beer, for a cup of coffee and a cigarette, when he knows he's gonna drive them out, that it's not just the problem of the housing estates that we're gonna bring to the table by this, and we're gonna bring the problem to the mayors, because they're gonna have to deal with the fact that, especially in summer, it's beautiful when people are having fun and it's bothering their neighborhoods, but it's not just the problem of the housing estates, but it's also the problem of the small villages, that they're just gonna have to meet in front of the pub and then they're bothering out loudly. That night, the voices carry far more than a day, and then it's always a problem. The law, as it is presented, is already responding to a number of senseless proposals from the previous government bill. Many of these things are no longer there, which can probably be acknowledged in the sense that it is a good thing that the government has heard the arguments of Members who have pointed to a number of nonsenses that were in those laws. These were the different gardens and the like, that one could not have a glass of wine during a break during the theatre performance, etc. The problem that Marek Benda described is that I can have a ten, ten-degree beer and wine, but I can't have a twelve anymore. Perhaps it would be worth looking for at least some compromise in this sense that we would not restrict it with ten-degree beer and so on. Just as I think there is something else sport centre, which also serves as a cultural centre in a small village, where everything is happening, and a large football or hockey arena in Prague and so on. These are absolutely different dimensions. That village has a completely different role to play in this kind of facility. They're more cultural or culturally sporting, because there's no money to make other investments in a culture centre or anything like that, so often it's like this, and when we're hard written there's no drinking alcohol in a sports area, then for a number of villages, it means they're gonna keep breaking the law, or they're just gonna be somewhere behind the fence, or they're gonna go somewhere else. If they want to follow the law, suddenly they won't have a place to meet, because they're gonna be part of the sport. There are such things in this bill that I think need to be removed. Just like Marek Benda here mentioned the 31st. 12., the effectiveness of this law. That means, hooray, you can't even enjoy New Year's Silvestr anymore! That's what I think is useless, too. And if you want to go there, those of you who will vote for the law, I'd rather ask you to give effect on January 1, 2017. I am deeply convinced that I will not vote in favour of this law as a whole, but I would certainly like to take part, if there is a will, in some changes that would be practical, if there is a will in the Chamber of Deputies. Marek Benda here was talking about sanctions. That's one A4 when you print it out, the sanctions that all these operators will have to guard, and they'll be held accountable when anything happens, at the level of liquidation. Therefore, I would argue that the law will mitigate some sanctions in these parameters, for it really will not go many times to find out whether anyone is obviously or who is actually obviously under the influence of alcohol. Whether it's a penalty or if he can pour him another drink. Even this could cause problems in practice. In the end, no one will respect it, then it is useless, because the law will be written, but in principle it will not matter to anybody, because in practice everyone will see that it cannot be controlled. Or we will find a formula that is controllable, clear, transparent, so that there is no error and that innocent people and employees of individual restaurants are not subjected to sanctions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-006-060.u19	I, too, thank you, Mr Member, and ask if anyone else is joining the debate. I don't see anyone. If that is the case, then I am done with the debate. I will call my colleague and colleagues from the lobby and ask whether the appellant or rapporteur wants to take the final floor. First, the plaintiff. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-006-060.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for the sophisticated debate on this subject. I think we're probably in agreement and we're all clear that we're not going to be able to convince each other completely, because the arguments on the protection of non-smokers, virtually. the freedom of smokers and the other things that this proposal deals with, we have been here repeatedly and have been brought up from both sides, and as I have observed, there has not been a change in positions between us, and I think it is probably logical and normal. Two. What has been raised here is that not all things, as they are in the proposal, are logical and interlinked. This is because we respected the shape in which the proposal was approved by the Chamber of Deputies. I'm talking about the beer line and the wine line. That's just how the House approved it, and we respected it, and I think there's gonna be a debate on the committees. Let me give you one specific explanation about the question that fell here, this is about shifting the effectiveness of the law to 31. 12. 2016 versus 1. 1. 2017, so I was told by my colleagues that it was not because we wanted to spoil someone New Year's Silvestr, but because the House approved an amendment to the law on municipal police in Act No. 188/2016 Coll., which takes effect as of 1. 1. 2017, which also regulates the control of establishments, including whether alcoholic beverages are served or sold to persons under 18 years of age. This would result in a legislative collision and our amendment, i.e. the Ministry of Health, would beat this one. However, this broader amendment to the Municipal Police Act must be preferred. That's why. Just to be clear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-006-060.u21	Thank you. Now, the rapporteur. Please, your final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-006-060.u22	Mr Vice-President, my final word will also be brief. I'm going to propose a reduction in the deadline between first and second reading by 30 days. Otherwise, for the sake of completeness, I would like to say that eight people have spoken in today's debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-006-060.u23	I am merely afraid, Mr rapporteur, that this proposal must be heard in the debate. I am not aware that this proposal for shortening has been made in the debate so that we can vote on it. This means that the only solution that exists is that one of the ministers will speak and open the debate so that this proposal can be heard. I wonder if one of the ministers will take the floor. [[Minister Němeček reporting.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-006-060.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to speak for shortening this deadline, as I said in the introductory words, that we have dealt with the substance of this law very closely and repeatedly in the previous discussions. I think that the vast majority of the arguments have been raised here and that there is nothing to prevent the reduced time limit from being enough to say anything else that might not have been mentioned or should be recited. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-006-060.u25	Thank you. Since the Minister has spoken, the debate is open. I'm registering two applications with priority rights. I ask, Mr President, whether the rapporteur may speak - or do you wish to speak before him? [[Question for Stanjuru: I want to speak first.]] Please, you have the floor. You were the first to report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-006-060.u26	I do not know why Members who wanted to act after 19 o'clock complain. I didn't vote for it. So you voted, so don't complain. Now that we have an open debate, Minister, let me respond to your final word. Otherwise, I wouldn't be performing with priority rights, even if I could. But when it's a normal debate, yes, You always tell such a piece of truth. You explained why the law is imperfect, that you respected the decision of the Chamber of Deputies. But not quite. So you personally took full responsibility for the shortcomings. If you accepted this with all the amendments, you're right, and I could say nothing, you are. You voted on it, and as you voted on it, we presented it to each other after our coalition partners. But you chose only some amendments politically, or all those that have passed, and one that has been voted for, I do not know now, almost 90 Members, you have made a political agreement. Not professionally or factually. So I think the correct information is that the flaws, the other ones, and the illogical things that the minister was talking about, you're willing to accept. It's from the government, you're here for the government, so please don't make excuses for the Chamber of Deputies. Those 30 days are simply not enough, because I assume that one amendment will not be heard during the discussion. You want to have second reading in 30 days. It's not our fault that you guys didn't make it through the law the first time, and now you're looking and putting out something with that enthusiasm - we're going to talk about it now, now it's really a priority. But the law could have been passed by now. And because you didn't agree with the coalition, which I respect, and I remember how difficult it is for coalition MPs to support the resulting compromise and honor the agreements. I don't know. I personally, colleagues - now it is not the view of the opposition Member who did not support the law, and the Minister knew that we would not support it - I say: we were not surprised at the final vote. But to me, it seems undignified to the Chamber of Deputies that we will not accept the law, the government will send us the same thing in the order of the days, except for one thing. He still has the courage -- and I'm really using it because it's the first day after the holidays, so I'm choosing a mild dictionary -- he's got the courage to suggest it to us in the '90s. And now you're all smiling, you who support it. You're saying it's going to happen now. When I said the same argument in the electoral bill, we're trapped. But you led us into that trap. And now we couldn't do anything but be trapped. You must have voted quickly. And there wasn't time for us to clear up, debate, and possibly do it again. So once it's possible, and once it's not possible. And I found it quite smiling to watch the expression of the political leaders of the Chamber of Deputies before this meeting that, at a time when there are such serious problems around us - brexit, the future development of the European Union, the problematic treaty with Turkey, visas yes or no, senseless proposals for a single asylum and migration policy, ideas that we will pay money if we do not want to accept emigrants, which we have every right to do - so you will declare that the priority of this meeting, perhaps the entire autumn season of Parliament, is anti-smoking law. And you forget to say that you screwed up once before, that you didn't quite succeed. Finally, the Minister and the Social Democrats retreated. There's no other way to interpret it, because I know who voted. I don't know. Your 30 members, or how many were in favour of Marek Benda's amendment, suddenly became aware, and now they know, in accordance with their conscience and personal decision, that they made a mistake. It's kind of a comedy you're playing with us here. Then you are not even able to read the shortening in the debate. As the rapporteur said, eight people have spoken. Maybe the rapporteur or someone could have loaded it. So here we're playing these things that we're going to open up the debate again and we're going to catch something for the last minute. I recommend you not to approve of the shortening of the deadline. Give room for Members to work out and perhaps better justify their amendments so that they can convince you that Marek Benda's original proposal was meaningful. Nobody cared. Because if you say that the enclosed space for those who want to close down is their decision - I certainly wouldn't fit in. Even without a valet. So all the arguments you're using are solved at once. And all of a sudden, just because your ANO colleagues told you that they would not vote for it, or because they were wrong, that they didn't really know what they were voting for, and they weren't ordinary MPs. Here I see the first Vice-President of the ANO movement, Vice-President of the ANO movement. They supported it so that they could see and tell us about the evening story, and maybe on ČT2 or on ČT Art it was over. But the little nightclub... Remember. Mr First Vice-President and President of the MP's club were overvoted in his club. That was probably the first time, and I think it was the last time. We all know that someone is deliberately overvoted, and then he says, "Dear colleagues, Social Democrats, I'm sorry, I did everything I could, but I just couldn't manage the club at this point. There was a revolt. I meant well, but it turned out like it always did. But when the representative of the traditional political party says so, as Chairman of the Faltýnek... I always press a tear in my eye. I saw a press conference today. He says "these traditional political parties are wronging us"! And he forgets that he's been a member of that traditional political party for 18 years. So his former colleagues - or 20 - don't be so ugly to President Faltýnek. Don't fuck with him and you fuck with him. Because he, as a longtime member of the traditional political party, must know that. Especially within social democracy. Then don't do it to him. Be so kind. Then the poor guy has to go to the microphone, to all of us. And then we're in the same bag with you, aren't we? We didn't do anything to him. We may have ruled with him in a coalition in Prostějov, if I'm not mistaken, and suddenly we're the bad guys who, to him and his party colleagues... Play the press conference tonight. I haven't heard such whining in a long time. Everyone's hurting us. Well, the minister is laughing, but he's retreating. The result is that it works on the Social Democrats and it doesn't work on us. So I'm gonna cut it short, and I'm not gonna hold you guys up. So you don't say I want to talk till I'm 21, I don't want to. Do not support the reduction of the deadline to 30 days, it is not a dignified Chamber of Deputies. Leave us 60 days and then vote how your conscience allows you and what your conscience allows you to do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-006-060.u27	Thank you. Now, therefore, the rapporteur entered into the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-006-060.u28	I would like to propose a reduction in the period between first and second reading by 30 days, i.e. 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-006-060.u29	Thank you, too. I wonder if anyone else is joining the general debate. I don't see anyone else. In that case, I conclude the general debate and ask whether the appellant and the rapporteur want to take the final floor. It's not like that. We shall now proceed to the vote. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Health as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I can't see. I'm registering the check-out request. So I'll check you out and ask you to re-engage with your cards. The number has stabilized. I am opening the vote and asking who is for the commandment of the Health Committee as a committee of guarantee. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a 40-order vote. 136 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 133, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee. [[19.30 hours]] The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I wonder if anyone has a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees for discussion. Mr. Klán. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-006-060.u30	Thank you for the floor. As I have already announced in the debate, I propose a committee on public administration and regional development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-006-060.u31	Thank you. Anyone else have a suggestion? Mr Ben, Mr Ben, Mr Benda. [[With laughter.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-006-060.u32	Mr Vice-President, you can't come up with my name anymore, but that's okay. I'm calm. [[We're laughing, too.]] I have also said in the debate, and I repeat, that we order the Constitutional Legal Committee, particularly because of the penalty that I think would really deserve to be read properly, because there are some things that are completely draconian.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-06-ps2013-049-01-006-060.u33	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else has a suggestion. I don't see anyone else. In that case, we will vote on individual proposals. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the commandment of this press to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 41, 136 Members and Members registered, for proposal 44, against 66. This proposal was rejected. We will vote on the second proposal. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this press being ordered to the Constitutional Legal Committee to press the button and raise your hand. It is a vote with order number 42, 136 Members and Members registered, for proposal 36, against 53. This proposal was also rejected. I note that we have not ordered any of the other committees to discuss this press. We will be the last to vote on a reduction in the time limit for discussion by 30 days. Initiating the vote and asking who is to shorten the 30-day hearing period, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 43, 136 Members and Members registered, for proposal 97, against 28. I note that this proposal has been approved and that the time limit for the hearing has been reduced by 30 days. I'm done discussing this point. Before I interrupt the meeting until tomorrow, I'll read the apologies. Today, at 19 o'clock, Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes for reasons of work. From 19.15 to the end of the day, Mr Ivan Gabal apologizes for reasons of work. From 19 o'clock to the end of the day, Mr Adam apologizes. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you and I am interrupting the session of the parliamentary meeting by 9 o'clock tomorrow.
