ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u1	111. Proposal by Members of Robin Böhnisch, Jiří Koubek, Jiří Junek, Jiří Dolejš, Martin Komárek, Roman Sklenák, Miroslav Kalousek and others for the Act amending Act No. 246/1992 Coll., for the Protection of Animals against Abuse, as amended / House print 742/ - first reading We received the Government's position as press 742/1. I ask the representatives of Mr Böhnisch's appellants to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly introduce to you the House Press 742, the amendment to the Act on the Protection of Animals against Abuse. I'll do my best to be brief. Much has been said about this matter lately, so I will really limit myself to the basic information contained in the amendment and a brief explanation. I will not use the words of the petitioner for a longer speech, and then I will express myself on an ongoing basis on a discussion basis, if they are what. It's a proposal from the MP. It was signed by 50 Members. The Act assumes that the breeding of fur animals will be terminated in the Czech Republic by the end of 2018 in cases where the acquisition of fur is the sole or major reason for breeding and killing these animals. In particular, it amends § 5 para. 2 of the law according to which the extraction of fur is still one of the permitted reasons for killing the animal. The section on offences is also being amended, i.e. § 27. The proposal envisages the possibility of a contribution to breeders who, in connection with the approval of the draft law, cease their farms during the proposed transitional period. The petitioners are convinced that there is no important human interest in killing animals solely in order to obtain fur. This is the key reason for this amendment. The proposed adjustment thus goes beyond the mere assessment of the welfare of animals on fur and is based on philosophical and ethical reservations. Let me comment on the Government's comments. First of all, the petitioners are pleased with the government's position, which states that, in general, the government agrees with the basis of the proposal, namely with ethical issues which raise the killing of animals in cases where there is no important human interest. Thank you and we are aware of some of the problems relating to the proposed bill. We agree with the remark on the need to adapt the provisions in § 5 para. 2 to avoid possible different interpretations. The new diction is prepared as an amendment to the committee. The submitters also addressed the government's demand to improve the quality of the industry economy and the possible economic impact of the adoption of the standard. In connection with this request, the Government has prepared an annex to the explanatory memorandum for the Czech branch of Ernst and Young, for which I thank you very much, namely Director Raizl. Ernst & Young report is based on available data. However, a certain complication in the preparation of the material was the fact that most owners of fur farms do not comply with the obligation to publish the accounts, as prescribed by Law No. 563/1991 Coll., on Accounting. The report estimates that the annual sales of breeders ranged between CZK 40 million and 65 million in 2015, and these entities paid approximately CZK 650 to 950 thousand to the Treasury on corporation tax. In addition to this failure, in the event of closure of farms, the state budget could be burdened with approximately CZK 1.5 to 2.5 million to provide financial collateral for persons who temporarily lose their jobs. The costs of compensation could then reach CZK 11 to 17 million, on the other hand closing the farms would mean reducing the costs of the activities of the Czech Veterinary Inspection. Furthermore, the government draws attention to inappropriate construction in the provision of non-interest compensation to breeders. I would like to remind you that the proposal for compensation is a helpful step towards breeders. According to the Constitutional Court's finding, the change in legal parameters could be seen as one of the business risks that entrepreneurs have to accept as part of their investments, especially in the long term. I am of the opinion that the petitioners have prepared another subsidy design, which is also part of the prepared amendment of the standard on the committee's premises. With regard to the Government's comments on the notification of the European Commission's technical standard, the petitioners and their lawyers consider that it is the government's job to fulfil the will of the legislator. It should act in accordance with Act No. 22/1997 Coll., on Technical Requirements for Products, through the Office for Technical Standardization, Metrology and State Testing. Finally, I would like to mention one international scale and comparison. The ban on the breeding of fur animals now applies in ten European countries, whether direct or indirect, consisting of the prohibition on the breeding of certain animals or the obligations to ensure a welfare similar or at least close to the ethological requirements of the animals kept. A direct ban applies in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Austria, Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Macedonia and an indirect ban in Switzerland and Germany, where the requirements for good welfare led to the uneconomicity of these farms and their gradual closure. The proposal complies with the international treaties under Article 10 of the Constitution, the constitutional order of the Czech Republic and the law of the European Union. I will add that the ban on killing animals due to the acquisition of fur supports 70 percent of the citizens of the Czech Republic according to the CVVM survey last year, 85 percent refuse to buy products from real fur. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and I would like to ask you for the release of the bill for second reading. In committee or committees, we are ready for discussion and partial adaptations to our proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u3	Thank you to the representatives of the plaintiffs Robin Böhnisch. We received the Government's position as House Press 742/1. I ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Josef Kott to present his report and take his place at the rapporteur's table before I open the debate. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u4	Good evening, Mr President, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief in the report and say only that the aim of the proposal is to ban the breeding and killing of animals solely or primarily for the purpose of obtaining fur. According to the proposal, Czech breeders will have to end it by 31 December 2018 at the latest. In order to mitigate these effects, the Ministry of Agriculture - I say - should make a one-off contribution to farmers who have ceased their activities. That's my news report. I will elaborate more on this in the general debate that I am signing up for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u5	I thank the rapporteur for his intelligence report. I am opening a general debate. I have four applications for it. We begin with Mr Miloš Babiš's application. A colleague, Jiří Valenta, will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u6	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to comment on the parliamentary bill for the protection of fur animals. This MP's amendment is best described by my articles, which I presented in periodicals and in journals entitled Traditional political parties mostly protect fur animals from elections. I think that this title of the article speaks fully and truthfully of the issue facing us. As history repeats itself, this law comes again on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm sure many of you remember that similar efforts have already been made here in the last parliamentary term and have divided the Chamber of Deputies into conservationists and non-protective men. I'm sure the activists have also been feeding you scary pictures of decimated fur animals. Bitten body parts and other horrible pictures. I can assure you that I too was appalled by these appalling scenes. A politician who is to speak responsibly about the issue must see for himself what the reality is. That's why I visited three breeders without prior notice. I can say that I have seen the exact opposite of published images in cages prescribed by the European Union. I haven't met a single breeding animal that matches the photos presented to us. Breeders were not surprised by my visit. On the contrary, they only asked me for total anonymity for fear of other attacks by activists. I'd like to outline a few experiences from these activist raids. Violent entry into the building and release from the cages of several dozen minks of America into the wild. I'm sure you know what this alien predator can do in our nature. In the next case, the mink was sprayed in cages with a pink colour with partial mortality. Or attacks on the personal property of breeders with threats of physical liquidation. These farms I visited were family-type farms where traditions and care for fur animals are passed on from parents to other family members. Let us ask ourselves whether we have so much courage in ourselves to forbid proper and honest farmers from doing business. Next time it may be chickens or rabbits who also behave in cages. I would suggest that we go more along the way of education, explaining the unnecessary need for these farms, but not by a strict ban. I certainly wouldn't give green light to activists who, at the very limit of crimes and sometimes even behind them, may be seeking a ban on the breeding of fur animals. I am convinced that the ban on the breeding of fur animals will lead to illegal breeding which will not be in any way controlled by the State Veterinary Administration. I'm sure none of us want that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u7	I thank Mr Miloš Babiš. Now I have one point of fact and one priority right. First, with priority rights, the President of the TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek, then Mr Kučera's factual comment and then Mr Mihola's priority right. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. Let me really just be very free to follow up on my previous speaker, Mr Babiš of the ANO movement, with just a factual remark. Unlike him, we who believe in tax cobras, electronic records of sales and other godly tools should not be afraid of illegal breeding. They can't happen anymore, because the vigilante, and thousands of government officials, are watching over something like that, they won't admit it, so it's completely out of the question. But quite seriously now. Please note that this proposal, under which I have signed, and have signed on for mature consideration, and I am proud to be signed under it, concerns exclusively animals unsympathetic and provenly unsympathetic. This means that it is not possible to talk about rabbits, even nutrients and other traditionally domestic animals. We are really talking about wild animals, which never meant that nature or a thousand-year-old relationship between humans and animals had to be domesticated. Yet they are locked in cages and kept in the conditions in which they are. I'm sometimes referred to as an antisocial right-winger. I don't think so, but for the moment, I'm gonna keep this image and say yes, I'm always gonna defend a free enterprise. We know that business is an activity for profit. However, if we leave this wording alone without any regulation, please admit that business as a serious activity in family businesses from generation to generation was still quite recent in the period of slavery. Only some 170 years ago, the enlightened Congress of the United States said that a business that seeks to generate profit must not be linked to abuse and humiliation. Just the business of keeping wild, unassimilated and unlovable animals in a cage, this business is also abuse. And abuse must not be allowed, in my opinion, to generate profit. Abuse must be forbidden. That's why I signed this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u9	I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Now, Mr Michal Kučera's factual comment. Furthermore, the President of the KDU-ČSL Mihola Club continues with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u10	Thank you for the floor. I would only briefly follow up on my previous speaker, Mr. Babiš's unconventional policy, who here portrayed scenes from animal farms about the lucky animals locked in cages enjoying their life in captivity in the family business. I mean, and President Kalousek has already mentioned that these animals can never be, or are not domesticated, which means they have some space in nature that they need to live. At the moment when the animals - of course, fox or mink can be domesticated, there is probably no discussion of this. The moment they're domesticated, they're losing the quality of the fur, which means they're not suitable for fur breeding. That's where the wild animals really behave, and the animals are being abused. And we're here today deciding whether we're gonna let these animals be abused or whether we're gonna stand up to the abuse. That's all we decide about today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u11	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, with the priority right of Mr Mihola, a duly registered colleague, Mr Valenta, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u12	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would not like to comment on the activists and stories around them. I personally support the law, which is designed to ban fur farms in the Czech Republic following the model of many other European countries. The KDU-ČSL Club has a free vote on this matter. I agree with those who say that an animal is not a thing and deserves respect and decent treatment, and that is what this is all about. I share the view that wild beasts do not belong in cages and that commercial breeding is in fundamental conflict with current scientific knowledge of the needs of these animals. In this sense, I join colleagues who signed this draft here in the Chamber of Deputies, headed by the Prime Minister, as well as a long series of colleagues from universities, institutes, the Academy of Sciences and other scientific institutions and their support for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u13	Thank you to the chairman of the KDU-ČSL Club. Another point in fact, Mr Komárek. Mr Valenta will be able to hold out. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Just for a little while. People have been living with animals in some way, and they've been dealing with them since man became something other than an animal, if that's what he really became. Our civilization has reached a certain point where, of course, few people, apart from the most sensitive people like my daughter, think that animals should not be killed at all. I respect that, but at today's stage of civilization, it's impossible, unsustainable. However, we should show some respect for animals, that they are living creatures with feelings and souls, and I think that this proposal is a way of showing respect and how to show that if it is not necessary, we will treat animals differently than animals. Of course, entrepreneurs who set up fur farms are not criminals. They acted in good faith that this is an economic object like any other. Therefore, I think that the law should be released until further reading, and it should also be adjusted at second reading with regard to the interests of these entrepreneurs, so that they are not reduced and that they come to their own people and animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u15	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact, but please, the factual point serves to respond to Members' speeches, not to replace a proper application. Please, Mr Jiří Valenta, Mr Martin Kolovratník will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, many of us have been quietly tolerated for a long time, or - unfortunately - they even support the killing of animals because of such trivial and sluggish matters as they should be in the rankings of intelligent man's values up to its very bottom. Furs serving as fashionable ornaments or accessories, whether in the form of collars, hems or whole coats, reflect everyday life of up to 20,000 animals kept with us. And we're still indifferent to anything. Some of us even support this condition and use pseudoargument in the style that, as long as there is demand, then there must be supply, and if we do not adapt to it, the market will be equally saturated with fur from so-called furs. black breeding, possibly cheap fur from China and so on. But do we realize that even the many foxes and mink breeders mentioned by the market power of the fur are actually disappearing? Yes. Personally, I believe that today the killing of animals due to human fashion is morally inexcusable, and, fortunately, even the most important fashion designers who are pushing this demand deeper and deeper into the bottom. Armani has recently announced that it undertakes to withdraw completely from the use of fur in the manufacture of all its products. The company owners have thus joined world brands such as Hugo Boss, Calvin Klein, Tommy Hilfiger, or Ralph Lauren, which, for the above mentioned and completely understandable reasons, have switched to alternative artificial materials. But even so, the animals are mass-killed by gas or electric current. For example, the fox inserts one electrode into the mouth, the other in the rectum and is subsequently killed by an electric shock. Norcs are also killed by exhaust gases. For example, the tractor is started and the gas is brought from the exhaust to a crate, some kind of gas chamber. However, the Treaty of Lisbon states that animals are susceptible beings, and therefore the treatment of them must be regulated, and that is why almost half of the European Union's countries have already banned breeding, and in other countries there are debates on such a ban. The full ban applies, as has already been mentioned here, for example in the UK, the Netherlands, Austria, Croatia, Slovenia. An indirect ban has also been mentioned here, where conditions are set for commercial operations which are impossible to fulfil, as is the case in Germany and partly in Switzerland. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union states in Article 13 that Member States should take full account of animal welfare requirements as susceptible beings and do not restrict them to the possibility of prohibiting fur farms. And this is justified in a pragmatic way that no commercial farming systems have yet been developed to meet the needs of foxes and minks. However, what I personally see as hypocritical in this regard is that European law does not yet restrict the import or sale of such products. However, this unsatisfactory situation in the field of European law cannot be a brake for us to enforce this necessary law in our country. [[18.00 hours]] As one of the proponents of this law, I must reiterate and repeat that in our case it is not the intended restriction of the breeding of fur animals as a whole, which is some of the subject matter, but only farms where the processing of animals is carried out exclusively or primarily for the purpose of obtaining fur should be prohibited. In particular, these are only nine farms in Dolní Cerekvi, Jiříkovice, Syrovice, Křižanovice, Klopotovice, Bruzovice, Pustějov, Vítějevsi and Velké Ratmírov. The proposal states that new farms should no longer be established from 2017 onwards and that the existing businesses should cease to operate by the end of the following year, as the rapporteur has also said. I'm not going to comment on the fact that The Ministry of Agriculture should provide funds that it will certainly find in its budget to end farms, on the basis of a decree, e.g. to cover the investment costs incurred. And our public mostly wants this standard. It has also been mentioned here that the CVVM of December 2015 in its research found that keeping so called. fur animals do not agree with more than 70 percent of the citizens that contemporary society, and that is also my opinion, has gone quite well without fur fashion. Ladies and gentlemen, we often hear tracts from this place about human freedom. In particular, we are often educated by colleagues from the right part of the political spectrum. But have we already considered that on this planet we are not really alone and that killing living creatures just for such a dubious creeper as the current human fashion is undoubtedly a manifestation of backward thinking and that even these living creatures have a certain right to their freedom? And I am saying this, and I stress again that in no way am I trying to hack the natural food chain of man now and question animal meat as a basic human food. A serious colleague, ladies and gentlemen, the arguments to support the proposal for this standard are undoubtedly much more. I tried briefly to outline at least the main and decisive ones in my opinion. Finally, I would like to introduce you to some of the myths that are mentioned for example. in letters to Members, for example from the chairman of the basic organization of breeding fur animals of the Czech Federation of Breeders and owners of Norek s. r. o. Let me mention at least three main myths. First, the reasoned report is biased and unbalanced in its parts. The arguments in it accurately follow the arguments of organizations with a radical vegan vision, which is therefore very smiling, taking no account of the objections directly touched by the sector and not reflecting existing scientific evidence. Second: Scientific literature on domestication of fur species clearly states successful domestication. Thirdly, the last myth I have chosen is that we have reason to believe that a large part of the Members signed under the report have been exposed to pressure and unilateral false information from lobbyist activities of vegan organisations, while Members have not been able to create a qualified and balanced opinion. So first of all, the first one. First of all, I must very strongly refute the claim that anybody would press me and that I would be subject to a sort of vegan lobby, I would say, on the contrary, that I, too, am their opponent. And on the claim of non-acceptance and non-reflexion of existing scientific evidence to the petitioner, I would now like to conclude by quoting an open letter signed by many scientific authorities in this field in the Czech Republic, which clearly refutes these unfounded accusations. Quote: In the near future, you will decide on a bill to ban the so-called law in the Czech Republic following the model of some other European countries. fur farms. In discussing this issue, we would like to contribute to a professional view of the suitability of the conditions that fur farms provide to animals at the same time. Out of the originally wider range of species kept exclusively for furs, only mink breeding, silver foxes and polar foxes remained in the Czech Republic in line with the worldwide trend. All of these species belong to the order of the beast and the beginning of their systematic breeding in captivity has only been dated since the end of the 19th century. The degree of domestication of these companies is thus comparable to wild beasts kept in zoos. However, while zoos have spent considerable resources in recent decades and efforts to adapt living conditions to the needs of farmed animal species, wild beasts on fur farms are still kept large in cages that do not correspond to their etiology. Both Norwegians and foxes are territorial animals, their natural territory is several square kilometers, in the case of foxes polar to tens of square kilometers. This territory is regularly circled, marked with scent marks, built holes in it, and provided for by hunting. The Norwegians are solitaire, half-water animals. They have partially floating muds on their paws and spend most of their time in water or in close proximity to water. Thus, any form of cage breeding cannot, by its very nature, meet the ethological needs of these wild beasts, especially as regards the need for stimuli, movement, Norwegian building and, in the case of mink, also swimming and access to water. In view of this fact, it can be reasonably assumed that cages cause these animals to suffer, even if the controls of the state authorities do not, from a veterinary point of view, find serious errors in them. Professional studies in these breeds also contribute to this conclusion, indicating a high incidence of stereotypes, which are widely interpreted as a accompanying phenomenon of poor well-being in life. It is not our ambition to judge the ethical question of whether it is in principle acceptable to raise and kill animals solely because of furs. However, it is difficult to avoid assessing the benefits of fur farms in confronting serious expert objections that can be raised in terms of protecting animals against their actual form. Animal protection is now a widely recognised public interest - and I would personally stress this. And any justified concern about the possible influence of human activity on animal suffering can be ignored, which makes this more unnecessary for human needs of society appear to be. Undoubtedly, furskins had an irreplaceable meaning for man and his survival in the past. Nowadays, however, they represent merely a fashionable superstructure. And now the conclusion, and that's very important. We therefore believe that commercial breeding of wild beasts in cages is in fundamental conflict with current knowledge of the needs of these animals, and, given the negligible importance of this sector for human society of the 21st century, we consider it appropriate to abolish this type of breeding. With respect - and various experts are signed here e.g. from the Faculty of Science of the UK, the Research Institute of Animal Production, but also from the ZOO in Ústí nad Labem, the ZOO Dvůr Králové, the Institute of Biology of vertebrates of the Academy of Sciences, the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, the Czech University of Agriculture etc. etc. So, ladies and gentlemen, I hope I didn't bore you too much. The previous performances seemed to me, of course, to me some, some I can relate to, but unfortunately I also have to agree with the speech of my fellow Member Kalousek, with whom I do not normally identify, but, as you can see, the facts are very eloquent now, regardless of party jurisdiction. Therefore, I beg you to support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u17	Thank you, Mr Valent. I'm sure he didn't bore you because he made four factual points. First is Mrs Olga Havlová, then Marie Pěnčíková, then colleague Jiří Koubek, then Mrs Lorencová. So there is a proper application from my colleague Kolovratník, but he will also wait, just as a colleague Valenta expected. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u18	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I fully respect the Animal Abuse Act. We need it. And let's keep all the animals in mind, not just the breeding of fur animals. I've just gotten caught up in the fiery speeches that I've heard here, and that's why I took the deed to remind myself of one crucial thing here, and that's halal defeats. And you don't want to discuss it here at all. I put a law on these slaughters into the system, and there's still talk of abuse. So let's keep everything in mind as far as this law applies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u19	Thank you for your point of view. Now, Mrs Marie Pěnčíková, on a point of fact, will prepare her colleague Jiří Koubek also for a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u20	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. I must say for myself that I am glad that the amendment to the law has come to us in plenary, because there is really a time when we need to talk about this issue. Who knows me, knows I didn't wear furs, I don't wear furs, and if you don't make me, I won't wear furs. But please the petitioner, if you want to argue and discuss this subject, don't lie here and study what you're talking about. I'm glad at least some people understand the issue. I think we have something to talk about. But if we're here to listen to the things my previous speaker said, we'll be here for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u21	Thank you, Mrs Pěnčíková, for the performance and respect of the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Jiří Koubek, Mrs Lorencová will also be prepared for a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I will also be very brief. I think I would like to call on all the speakers, along with a colleague who has spoken before me - perhaps we do not have to read, repeat what we all have in the background. I'm heading to my honored colleague, Valent, who I think has done a little bit of bear service with his contribution, if I may use an example, given what law we are discussing. His speech was mainly in the ranks of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, because only two representatives joined as authors of this law. That's what I'd like to define myself. When you were talking about tracts against freedom and you were talking about as if this law would not be supported by the right hand, we joined our club by about half. That means, I'd like to challenge you, let's not make this a right-left policy. It's really pointless. Let's talk about the professional stuff. Let's put it on the committees, and let's not make it a politician who's gonna make a bigger left-wing-right soup on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Jana Lorencová and I have two more factual points. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I kind of think it's a bad colleague of Havlová's that actually took out the bullet I wanted to get off with. I guess we all get - and I dare say tens, maybe hundreds of e-mails in which we are alerted to halal defeats. That's something I hope most of this House can't relate to. Yet, until now, I have virtually failed to notice any fundamental reservation against the fact that we tolerate halal defeats. We're not talking about it. We just know they're taking place here, and we quietly tolerate it. I want to ask if it is part of the law against animal abuse and the categorical ban on halal slaughter. That, in my opinion, is one of the most cruel ways to treat animals! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u25	Thank you, Mrs Lorencová. Now, Mr Jaroslav Holík, also with a factual remark and two further factual remarks by Mr Valenta and colleague Böhnisch. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as humanity is developing, man too has ceased to have the need to wrap himself in furs that were some kind of insulation layer for him. The furs have become a fashion accessory. At present, I am glad that the law has been discussed, that we are beginning to defend ourselves a little bit by killing animals. But there's one thing. If there is a demand for fur in this country, we will stop it, some states will stop it, but they will come here from Poland and other countries, then it will be wrong. So I call on the entire House to draw up a law on restrictions on the sale of these products. And otherwise, I recommend that the law proceed to the second round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u27	I thank Mr Jaroslav Holík. Now, my colleague Valenta, with a factual remark and a factual comment by Mr Böhnisch. Please, colleague, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u28	Thank you for the floor. I would only dare to respond to some of my previous speakers. It was said here that people who understood should comment on this. For your information, I'm here to say that I have a degree in the Czech University of Agriculture, so I think that to some extent I might understand the issue. But I didn't mean to... I would rather respond to my previous speaker, Mr Koubek. I didn't attack you here at all. I've only identified you as the right parties that you're constantly preaching to us about some kind of freedom. You're constantly teaching us in this business. But in that context, like you said, I wasn't talking. And also on your Margo, I may have said something in my long speech from the reason message, but I was trying not to read the report. I merely repeated some fundamental facts. But because it seemed to me that the enforcers of the law were a little bit caressing him, instead of using some more serious arguments here that I mentioned, it was for this very reason that my report was a little bit harsher, a little longer. And I don't regret it at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u29	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, the final point in fact, I hope... My colleague Böhnisch surrenders, so we can continue... A colleague of the Volný beats his party colleague with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u30	I beg you, very briefly, for those two minutes. I'll give you two facts. On the subcommittee for breeding, among other things. I have made very well represented assets on this subject and voted almost unanimously against the adoption of this law. We have also acted on the agricultural committee, which has also made large assets to do so. In depth it was discussed and again with the same result that the large majority, I am not saying that 100%, was against acceptance. I'm gonna make my point. Fifteen years ago, there were some 50 breeders. Then, of course, a new time came and very well introduced veterinary measures and began to tighten breeding and conditions for these breeders. It's down to 15 breeders. The conditions have re-enforced, and I'm saying again that it's probably right. Those breeders invested a lot of money in it. And we led them to do it well, better to give those animals for big money what they should have, what they need, under what conditions they can continue to do it. And now we're gonna come back in a few years, and legally, we're gonna ban them? That's what bothers me. Yes, it is a policy, and it is a debate - a protector against liberals. It's a legitimate regular discussion. But it seems to me that all of a sudden, after a few years, you've done what we wanted to do, and now we're going to forbid you... That seems pretty unfair to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u31	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Colleague kolovratník will wait, because there is a factual remark by Mr František Adámek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I hope to abide by the Rules of Procedure, because I will respond to the speech of my fellow Volný. A little bit of me, when it's a loose concept, investment in equipment, into buildings, and everything a little bit like smoking law. Excuse me. Because I just think that the level of society is recognised not only by the way it treats citizens, but also by animals and other things. So those people you want to ban after a change of opinion today, those pubs, etc., into which they invested a lot of money for suction, for building separate spaces, that doesn't bother you at all. And here at the nine farms, as we've learned, we all have a huge problem with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u33	Thank you. That's not the last point of fact. Once again, Mrs Lorencová's point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u34	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. Let me just make a quick point. Have you, colleagues, noticed that lately, actually long enough, we have been proposing and adopting mostly laws, where the main word and defining the substance of the word is a ban? We're starting to forbid more and more things. Disable, allow and re-disable. It looks like we really don't have any other worries here than those we're dealing with with a ban.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Lorencová. It raised Mr Kučera's factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u36	Thank you for the floor. I am pleased that Mrs Lorencová has pointed out that the flood of bans, which is in the Chamber of Deputies during this parliamentary term, is indeed a flood. And I think that the leader of the amendments that bring bans is the YES movement and the ANO ministers. We have even compiled a list of non-freedom as the TOP 09, where we personally name the restrictions and bans brought by the YES movement and its ministers. And it's really dramatic. I am glad that the individual members of the ANO movement are aware of this and are starting to wake up a little bit. Thank you for the words.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u37	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I know it's a reaction, but please, let's get back to the subject. Mrs Černochová, with a point of fact, Mr Kolovratník is patient. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. On the contrary, I would like to stand up for Mrs. Lorencová here, because we've been discussing here and we've been discussing the anti-smoking law for a long time. And it is not from the pen of any of the ministers for the ANO movement. And my esteemed colleagues, my colleagues, I'm really fascinated by this debate. I was here at 14.20 hours suggesting that we deal with a medical emergency where the lives of ten million people are at stake. You've been dealing with fur coats for two hours! Do you feel normal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u39	Thank you for the factual remark made by Mrs Černochová. And now a duly logged-in co-worker of the Collo-kolovratník. After that, Mrs Helena Válková will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u40	Thank you for the floor. I see patience pays off. They say there's a first time for everything. For me, it is interesting to know that for the first time in my life, I am in great harmony with both the textbook example of the right-wing approach by Miroslav Kalousek and the textbook example of the left-wing approach by my colleague Valenta. You see, sometimes across a political spectrum, we can agree. And when it comes to emotions, I first confess to one emotion. I'm one of those who signed the bill. And the decision I agreed to was very simple, very lapidary on my part. I simply believe that keeping animals only for pleasure, entertainment, furs is simply unnecessary. That we simply do not need it, on the contrary, from a number of other domesticated and - it was beautifully said - domesticated animals, pigs, cows, rabbits, etc., etc. But if I leave my emotions aside, my colleagues, I will repeat a little what Mr. Jiří Valenta said here long and flamingly, but I will formulate it more as a request to you. Indeed, the facts are clear: 70 percent, perhaps more than 70 percent of the population, citizens of the Czech Republic, says this is not the way, move it forward, ban the farms. Forty-two renowned scientists, experts in biology, animal breeding and representatives of zoos encouraged us to focus on this subject and to pay attention to it. So for at least this reason, I'd like to ask you not to drop the standard so that we can move it to the next reading, because I think it would be a bit of a mockery to the professional and lay public on our part. Now I certainly do not have the right to speak for my club president, for President Faltýnek, for my colleagues. I saw the debate at our club in the morning, and we are not united, and the view spectrum is really against each other on several parts. Perhaps we will end up agreeing on some free vote, and it will be up to each of us to decide how we stand up to it. But at this point, from my side of the plea to you, let's focus on that standard in further readings. Thank you for your attention and your common sense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u41	Thank you, Mr Kolovratník. Mr Miroslav Kalousek's point of order now. And I ask my colleagues to stay calm! I know the mood is excited, but I think we can discuss this in peace. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u42	I am sorry, it is really the last pseudophilosophical today, but when Mr Valenta so apologized for having the same opinion as I have, and Mr Kolovratník says that both the right and the left can find the same opinion, allow a small remark. Both the left and the right, I believe, may have some common values. The common value is respect for life. Man can treat whatever he's capable of creating, that's things. But he did not create living beings and his life and conditions should therefore be treated with humility by someone who is unable to create and influence such things. That could be common to us. This is also a minor response to Mrs Černochová's remark. We're not talking about fur coats, we're talking about living beings and their suffering.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u43	I thank my colleague Kalousek. Mrs Černochová wants to respond with a factual point. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I don't understand a bit of President Kalousek's speech, because I've been talking here about first aid medical services, where I've been since 1. 1. 2017 is not clear who will save living beings, who will save citizens of the Czech Republic by using helicopters. So please don't put something in my mouth that I don't know the value of life. If I had to give priority to the value of human life or the life of animal life and the debate that has been going on here for over two hours, I would rather trade this debate for a debate about saving people's lives!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u45	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. We've only been discussing this for 55 minutes. Now, Mrs. Helena Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u46	Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I am not a co-president of the law, I am certainly not a supporter of the so-called 'green' or non-state animal protection organisations in the broader sense of the word. And so I am certainly not someone who supports extreme ways of influencing Members and the public with arguments that sound kissing and affecting emotions. They have such an impact that sometimes we decide and act differently than we would like. But on the other hand, I would like to point out that we are discussing a standard which, as my previous speaker Mr Kalousek has said here, has an ethical dimension, and that we should not forget this in these discussions. And that may be why they are here discussing and acting in a consistent manner both from the left and from the right. Let's say that ANO is somewhere in the middle, at least for this question. And I'm sure the vote, as my colleague Kolovratník said, looks like he's gonna be free and he's probably halfway through, we'll see about that. The ethical dimension I see in the fact that in the last, say, five to ten years, public sensitivities occur in the Czech Republic against such manifestations as the suffering of the second, vulnerability, killing, not only in terms of humans, but also in terms of animals. There is no animal of matter in the new Civil Code. This is such one proof that the public accepts the standard, which has also been approved by us, which puts the animal in a completely different light than it did by the end of 2013, which means that the old civil law is valid. [[18.30 hours]] We have new facts. Section 302 animal abuse in the Code of Criminal Procedure. Section 303 neglect of care for the animal by negligence. Of course, these breeders do not commit these crimes, because the conditions are more strictly defined there. But ten or fifteen years ago, it was unimaginable for someone to be criminalized for the abuse of an animal. They were misdemeanors. [[There's an increase in the sound level in the room.]] Thirdly, we probably all know or remember what discussions were going on here when we were talking about criminalising the spread or making contacts for child pornography. And even these standards, which are in line with European legislation, have finally been approved, thereby tightening society's response to such behaviors and tightening up the means that should always remain those -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u47	Madam, I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace. I would like colleagues who are discussing a subject other than the protection of animals against abuse to bring these discussions into the lobby and let the speakers justify the position that a particular Member or Member has. Really treat each other well. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u48	So this forced little pause also leads me to shorten my speech, because I am interested in this and I support this amendment proposal so that we can get to the vote before the end of today's meeting day. The arguments that have gone away here, I think we should take seriously that we should at least respect those 70 per cent and test whether the 70 per cent is really a relevant result of objectively conducted public research that wishes to ban such fur farms so that we can put the amendment into second reading and then, if possible, into third reading, and thus give room for discussion here in the Chamber of Deputies and show the importance and attention that we devote to this issue. I think that by your means, Mr Vice-President, the comparison, whether it is a major or a minor standard, is not appropriate, because if we are talking about, for example, the air rescue service, it will certainly have our attention, too, and I am certainly not questioning it, but at present we are talking about a law that is aimed at protecting others, but important, even if not in a comparable way. So here I think the analogy isn't entirely appropriate, or the comparison. In principle, I propose that we let the proposal of the amendment into second reading. I think that those of us who still had some doubts should be convinced of the arguments that those 42 academics on one page - probably knowing that Members do not have time - have gathered, expressed and signed in a very precise, understandable way. And I have no doubt that when I see how fellow academics, representatives of these disciplines, who are really concerned with animals, are intercedeing and asking us to make a decision as proposed by the proposal that we are currently debating. So I'm joining those who are plotting here to let the amendment proposal go into the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u49	Thank you, Mrs Helena Válková. Now, Mrs Jana Pastuchová's factual point. A colleague of Černoch as any properly logged in can wait, surely it will last. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u50	Thank you. I just want to react from my position on what my colleague Černochová said here, through you. I certainly do not doubt that the Air Rescue Act or the solution to the Air Rescue Service is very important. And I voted for it to be communicated here. But I would hate to see the panic of 10 million people in our republic being threatened. Rescue services are provided by the ground rescue service, which has the legal time of arrival. So ten million people are definitely secured by ground rescue services. So the plane is definitely important, but let's not panic that it's ten million people's lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u51	Thank you. We have another factual comment by Mr. Brázdil. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u52	Dear ladies, dear gentlemen, do you notice how incredibly stupid we are in the Rules of Procedure, how we can easily move on to the subject of aviation now. Come on, Mrs. Černochová, after me, I'll start unloading, you guys will be unloading, everybody go ahead. We'll normally transfer it somewhere else. And we're gonna talk and we're gonna talk and we're gonna talk and we're gonna talk and we're The plane deserves its own, it's a topic, for God's sake, I do it for a living, and I fell down three times, and I care a lot. But I don't care so much about these animals, that's true, because I want to talk about something else, about what saves people, not animals. But that's okay. I'll hear it. I just wanted to point out the paradox. Now, we can, uh, we can, uh, we can, uh, we can, uh, we can, uh, we can, uh, we can, uh, we can, uh, we can, uh, we can, uh, we can, uh, we can, uh, we can, uh, we can, uh, we can, uh, we can, uh, we can, uh, we can, uh, we can, uh, we can, uh, we can, uh, we can, uh, we can, uh, we can, uh, we can, uh, we can, uh, we Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u53	I thank my colleague Brázdil. To get back to the subject completely before I give the floor to my colleague, Marek Černoch, who was duly registered, as every properly performing one waited for the factual remarks to come to an end, I will quote an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. For personal reasons, she apologizes from 18.30 to the end of the meeting day, Mrs. Květa Matušovská. Mr Marek Černoch now. A colleague Jiří Dolejš will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u54	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. I signed up for this law, which is why I wanted to give my opinion. I agree with Mr Brázdil, by your means, Mr President, as well as with Mrs Černochová, we supported the negotiation of the aviation rescue service, because saving human lives is very, very important, most important, let us put it plainly. But only quickly to the law. I think there was a very interesting opinion here, which Mr Kalousek said, and that is that people really, if they call themselves people, do not have the right to abuse anyone, people, or animals. It's not their right. And if animal abuse can be prevented in any way, it is good and it is necessary to do something in this regard. Personally, I am a dog dad, and I think this should just be the beginning of everything, because it is a bit of alibiism, as my colleague Olga Havlová, Mrs Jana Lorencová, said, whether it be halal slaughter, whether it be normal slaughter, whether it be a normal slaughterhouse where animals suffer very often, it is necessary to address this, as well as the multiplication plants, also a topic that needs to be addressed. So let's take this as a start and let's deal with it to make animals, to make creatures that really have the right to live and not to be locked up somewhere in cages, and even under conditions that I think sometimes really border on completely illogical thinking of the 21st century, abuse, so to prevent it. That is why I personally support this proposal. Even in our club, we have a free vote. And I would like to ask you to support this proposal so that we can get on with it and work it out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u55	I thank Mr Marek Černoch. Now duly registered colleague Jiří Dolejš. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u56	Lovely evening. I'll be very brief. I would not like my colleague Černochová or anyone else to feel that we devote too much space to problems that are not people's problems. But to some extent, this problem of humans is in the sense that nothing human should be alien to us and in humanity undoubtedly certain empathy is part of animal suffering. I may not have to stress that when I signed this law, I would also like it to advance to the next reading, but I still have three comments. [[18.40 hours]] The first is that the plaintiffs in this press didn't draw from some freak who basically sneaks around at night and lets tigers out of cages on the streets, or that they're crazy people who like animals more than humans. It is simply a step that is moving towards something that is already legalized in a number of European countries. It is a step towards banning the breeding of animals of fur farms throughout the European Union and perhaps prospectively throughout Europe. It's a process, and it's undoubtedly one step at a time. It's on the margo notes that it's not in some countries, and that's why it's going to be smuggled and I don't know what it's all about. There is no simple immediate solution. It's a step in a certain process. The second point is that perhaps those who listened to the discussion understood that this bill was not an attack on the breeding of Czech or other. Of course, breeders will continue to be cheerful about the fact that after this law is passed, we will not see that the masses will be closed, that each of us will be forced to come out and declare a vegan, but that it is that they should not behave in particular animals, i.e. beasts. And we won't really have to run away from meat-free products like some sausages where you can barely find the meat. The third point is that the petitioners here may have demonstrated that it is the will to deal with not having an impact on concrete, albeit economically marginal, but still business. We honor business. And the mode of decline of this business, even if it concerns only a few farms, is certainly the subject of discussion and can still be modified. I think that this really is not a problem of business and freedom of business, it is a problem of ethical and ethological, which is why biologists, who are undoubtedly experts and capacities in the field of ethology of the beast, have also been read here. And that brings me to the last one, and that's basically a specific proposal. We're at first reading. Therefore, if it is crucial to clarify the ethological dimension, I think it would be reasonable to reconsider whether the Guarantee Committee should be an agricultural committee and therefore suggest that the Guarantee Committee be an environmental committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u57	I thank Mr Jiří Dolejš. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall!]] Before I give the floor to Petr Kudel, I have two priority rights, the priority rights of the rapporteur and the Minister of Agriculture. First, the rapporteur. You've been logged in before, rapporteur, it's up to you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My previous speaker's performance. It is nice that it proposes that the Committee on the Environment should be the Guarantee Committee, but I think it primarily concerns animal breeders, so I think that the Committee on Agriculture should remain the Guarantee Committee, but that is only for additions. The proposed draft law prohibits the breeding and killing of animals primarily where it is for the purpose of obtaining fur. In my opinion, this is a well-meaning proposal based on reservations against the manner or conditions in which these animals are kept. Animal breeding - there is no important human interest for him. Personally, I have great doubts as to whether it is right to ban commercial breeding of certain animals just because someone does not find these conditions sufficiently ethical. Likewise, there are groups of some animals for meat, where the reason certainly does not seem ethical, whether they are already mentioned rabbits or chickens. The ethical conditions under which these animals are kept should certainly be. The reasons for leaving this to be considered by individual breeders, who, as has already been said here, have adjusted four or five years ago, and where some who have considered it and did not find it economical, have ended the breeding. [[There's still a lot of noise and restlessness in the room!]] A number of reservations against the standards in force in fur animals can certainly be accepted. The question is, however, what do we want to achieve with this ban on breeding in the Czech Republic? It does not reduce the demand for fur and the result of our efforts may be that farms move to Germany, Poland, Lithuania or beyond, to Asia, where I do not think that welfare of animals is at a higher level, and I think that is the opposite. Problems arise from the very wording of the law. The breeding and killing of animals shall be prohibited primarily in order to obtain fur. Where the use of fur is by-product, the petitioners claim that the prohibition shall not apply there. However, it is possible to determine what is primary and what is secondary, or what may differ from breeding, when using both meat and fur at the same time. According to the information that came to me during the visit of individual breeders, of course the meat would be used provided that the customers received it -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u59	I, rapporteur, will interrupt you and ask the House once again for peace. I think I'm going to appoint some regular disruptors to this meeting. And I'm totally serious. I hope that there will be a moment of peace here, and the rapporteur will be able to finish his performance. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Meat is not processed just because it is done once a year and potential customers would have huge problems with the feeding dose in animals they would provide because once a year it means either freezing or preserving it in some other way so that they can serve it to animals all year round. The individual chapter then consists of compensation for owners of fur farms, who will have to cease their activities on 31 December 2018 and who, as was said here, have also invested considerable funds into this. Even if it doesn't seem like it for someone, it's family farms, so it's definitely not tens of millions of crowns, but hundreds of thousands that they were forced to put into it. The Ministry of Agriculture is to adopt a decree according to which losses do not have to be compensated without setting the necessary criteria for such implementation new production. From the point of view of European law, the proposal, as pointed out by the Government, is a ban on the production of a particular product and can therefore be considered a technical regulation which is subject to further notification. In practice, this means the obligation to send a regulation to the Commission still in the form of a proposal in a situation where substantial changes can be made if the Commission or the Member States deliver comments on the proposal. This procedure cannot certainly be guaranteed in the present case. For these reasons, I would like to propose a rejection at first reading in a detailed debate. If this proposal of mine fails, I would like to propose an extension of the deadline for committee discussions by 30 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u61	Thank you to the rapporteur. I have with priority the Minister's right, then two more factual points, Mrs Pěnčíková and colleague Sklenák. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u62	I'm sorry. I was slow before, and I couldn't see that I was applying. I really welcomed the novel here, although I consider it bad, but I wanted it to be such a basis for further discussion, because we have something to build on. I've dealt with the representatives of the petitioners, at least some of them. I told them my comments, and now I find it quite smiling at the debate that some of the petitioners are killing themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u63	Thank you, Mrs Pěnčíková. Now, my colleague Sklenák, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u64	Good evening. Colleagues and colleagues, I am also one of those who signed the bill that we are debating, and I care very much for it to be approved, and so am those who spoke here before me. But unfortunately, given the time of the day and the way many previous speakers advocated this law, we are in a situation that maybe today would have to be interrupted and who knows when we would have returned to it. So I would ask you, and I therefore suggest that we vote on this law after the 19th hour, and I ask all of you, including those who may not be in favour of this law, to agree on this, to discuss this law at first reading today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u65	This is, of course, a possible proposal in the context of a procedural remark as factual. I'll check you all out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. I'm gonna sing. We will decide on President Sklenák's proposal in voting number 246, which I have begun, and I ask who agrees to negotiate after 19 o'clock today and decide on them. [[There are objections from the benches.]] Who's against it? [[Objection is growing.]] About this law. I'm sorry, but that was the proposal, and I didn't want to change it. Please vote number 246. From the present 126 for 79, versus 18. The motion was accepted. I didn't intend to start another point after the end of this point anyway, so it's up to us how much longer we're going to discuss it. Now Minister Jurečka with priority rights and the last one entered in the debate by Mr Kudela. The Minister of Agriculture has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u66	Thank you. Good evening, Mr President, dear colleagues. I will try to be as brief as possible and limit myself to just a few key points. I see the views of everyone involved in this debate here, and everyone has a point of truth in their point of view. But if we want to deal with the issue of keeping animals here, whose production we don't necessarily need, that they're in an unnatural environment, that it doesn't work out in terms of welfare and the like, I just want to remind you, for the sake of fairness, that we have a lot of other animals here. If we go into homes, into our apartments, there will be many other species of animals that are in an unnatural environment and that are not domesticated either. I'm sure we can't classify them like that. So that's enough just to make us realize these things. And we don't need them for fur or food, and yet the animals are there, and they're certainly not in any good conditions. However, I will now look at the very essence. I would like to point out that the 2004 Decree laid down and placed on these forms claims on these breeders, which they had to comply with by 31. 12. 2013. There was quite a very long time when it was said that these breeders had to make a certain investment. They made it, and we as legislators will now come after three years, after less than three years, when they have fulfilled it, and we will tell them: You must end this kind of business within two years. So I'm just going to end with the fact that, please, the petitioners, please, the committees that are going to discuss this - and here I really lean to the guarantee committee being agricultural, because the agricultural committee, and the impact of this regulation, will affect business entities in the agricultural sector, not in the environment. So please consider this. And then I want to say that the two-year deadline, if the Chamber of Deputies has already decided on this significant change, I consider it a very short, very short transitional period. There were states that had an eight-and-a-year transitional period. And it has been said several times here that we, as the Ministry of Agriculture, will compensate for the cessation of activities for these breeders. I don't have a grant title. I have no instrument in how I can make such compensation. There's no certified grant title. So please the Members who argue this - we have not been discussed, no one has given us such a task, and I do not have such an instrument. So let's not use the argument of something standing on the water. I'm just saying this for all the arguments that need to be put into discussion here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u67	Thank you, Minister of Agriculture Jurečka. Now with a point of fact, my colleague Michal Kučera. A colleague of Kudela, who is duly registered, will wait a little longer. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u68	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to suggest to Minister Jurečka here where he could get the money from. You have recently reduced or set stricter rules for entrepreneurs by approving electronic records of sales. I just learned on TV that you're expecting it to be 18 billion. So try to take the money out of, like, 18 billion. Instead of 900 playgrounds, build 850 playgrounds for children and devote the rest to fur animals breeders.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u69	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Kudela, now. I ask Mr. Vice-President if he wants to report to the debate or to the final floor. I just want to know if I can close the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u70	Mr President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I would very much hate for us to be divided into protectors and animal tyrants. I don't think it's about that at all. We are in a state where we are discussing a bill that limits some breeders, or directly prohibit their breeding. Mr Dolejš spoke that it is not against breeders. It's against livestock farmers. In secondary agricultural schools, the field is taught, or some x-hours in the course of teaching is livestock farming. The breeding of fur animals. The breeding of fur animals is a very specific demanding discipline, because it must create conditions for the animals to provide the breeder with the desired benefit, the desired effect for which the breeder keeps them. I visited one of the farms yesterday, one of the breeders, to see for myself the person we're discussing today. They are hardworking people who engage in their activities in the breeding of fur animals. There are no solar barons that invest, and when the sun shines, the clock spins, they're happy. It's everyday hard work. And today we decide whether to take away these people's object, their breeding. It has been said several times that at the beginning of the 1990s there were over twenty breeders in our country. There's only nine of them today. These people feel concerned that they are referred to as animal tyranny. Yet their numbers are decreasing gradually. I believe that this law that we are adopting is redundant in our legislation, and I will vote in favour of rejecting it. If the rapporteur has not read it yet, I propose rejecting this law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u71	I thank Mr Kudel. That was the last one entered in the debate. But we still have factual applications - colleague Fiedler, colleague Kalousek, colleague Hovorka, these are factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Then with priority rights - yes, but after factual remarks, Mr President. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u72	Thank you for the floor. Mr President's view was so ugly that I would be really short. I think we would - I would just like to recall what was said here by Minister Jurečka. This has been said very rightly from me that there are many other animals here, which are also kept in conditions that are not natural to them, and we do not deal with them at all. So from this point of view, it really reminds me of an alibi proposal that only solves what's popular, what we want to hear, and that's how we cover our eyes and don't want to see the rest. I think that was a very good point from the Minister. [[19.00 hours]] And I'm going to respond to the more successful factual remark of my colleague Lorencová, the other one didn't do very well, true. About the halal slaughters. That's actually the same thing I said in the introduction. One thing we're gonna do is we're gonna do it and we're gonna do it and we're gonna do it and we're gonna do it and we're gonna do it and we're gonna do it and we're gonna do it and we're It's not a balanced opinion. The proposal targets only one segment. And really consider how you're going to vote, if it's reasonable to continue to deal with it this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u73	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Miroslav Kalousek's point of order now. Mr Ludvík Hovorka will prepare for a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u74	Thank you. Just a little comment on the guarantee committee. The light dispute that's been going on here, I think he's very faithfully describing the debate, maybe more than all the speeches. The agricultural resort is a business resort which is measured by production, production efficiency. With all due respect. It is measured how many tons of wheat and how many bovine animals, what efficiency, what profit. While the Department of Environment takes care of the landscape, the living beings that live in that territory, the conditions in which not only humans live but also other living beings live. Let's compare which committee should be a guarantee and what we're dealing with here. Those tons of fur and the tons of meat that goes into the rendering machines, I don't think so. We're more concerned with respect for these living creatures.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u75	I thank Mr Kalousek. Mr Ludvík Hovorka is now also making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u76	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable colleagues, honourable Members of the Government, I support this bill and I would just like to add that I would like all those who have spoken sensibly about animals to realise that there are many children who cannot be born and who are basically being abused every year in the Czech Republic. I think it's a good idea to realize that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u77	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. One more point in fact, Mrs Marie Pěnčíková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u78	I'm gonna close this place down. I'm so glad you've all been to those farms.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u79	Thank you. And now I have no application for a debate except for the priority right of the President of the ODS. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. But before you start talking, I will ask the House again for peace. I would really like us to finish negotiations on this bill in a dignified environment. We have decided to complete this proposal tonight. All left to right and right to left, please. [[There's a disturbance in the room.]] It's not quiet yet. And after you another priority right of the Vice-President of the Government. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u80	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, I'm afraid you're wrong. You said: we decided to negotiate that point today. Allow me to quote the Rules of Procedure when they have already violated it - when you have allowed the violations of those who have spoken after 7:00 p.m., I'm sure you will suffer from it with me. Section 53 - The House opens its daily meeting at 9.00 at the earliest and ends at 21.00 at the latest. Match. The vote on the bills, and we are discussing the draft law, the amendments to them and the international treaties requiring Parliament's approval and the amendment of this time for voting, can be started by 19.00 at the latest. On the proposal of at least one fifth of all Members or, where appropriate, two Members' Clubs, the House may decide otherwise. There was no such suggestion. I am surprised that the experienced Members of Parliament, as President of the Sklenák and Vice-President Filip, have admitted a misguided vote. Unfortunately, you were supposed to end this point three minutes ago under the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u81	Well, in that regard, of course, Mr President, you are right that I did not even request a document, namely a written document stating that the relevant number of Members from the ČSSD club, represented by Mr Sklenák, was not presented to me, that is true, that is my fault. Sorry about that. But I did not ask, either, whether the President of the Sklenák's proposal agrees with that of another member of the members of the parliamentary clubs. I have here the application of my colleague Miroslav Kalousek and then the priority right of Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u82	The proposal was made, and the proposal was made by President Sklenák following the preliminary agreement of social democracy clubs and TOP 09. I want to sign up for this agreement, and if President Sklenák has not made it too clear, please let us take note.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u83	So, now the de facto comment by the President of the ODS Club, then Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u84	I'm sorry, don't make it a pigeon. Preliminary deals off the mic are nice, but somebody has to say them here. There's no such thing as saying at 7:05 p.m. that President Sklenák thought something. I listened very well to what he said. I was out of the meeting room, I was at the TV. We've got the stew footage, it didn't sound right, the vote was completely misguided, we haven't extended anything. I'm not gonna support a motion to dismiss, so you don't think it's because of the particular one. But it's for next time. Next time anyone comes in, they won't even need signatures. [[unintelligible]] I didn't even want the club members' signatures. It was enough to use the standard wording, which they were agreed upon if necessary. But if you didn't use it, you're out of luck. We can't see what's in your head and what you've done off the microphone. That's just the way it is. Don't be a pigeon in this. Indeed, when it comes to this - when it comes to voting rejection, I will not support rejection at first reading. So there's no need for this. And once we admit it, we can admit it at any time. So if we change the Rules of Procedure that any Member can propose this, why not, but first we must change the law. And not that we forgot something, and we actually meant it differently, so let's actually do it and let's tolerate it, we all understand each other. Either we follow the law or we don't!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u85	Okay. Before I give the floor to the Chairman of the TOP 09, you may propose an appeal to my proceedings of the meeting. Because I really made a mistake. I didn't demand it, I realize it. I don't get a chance to be replaced because there's nobody here next to me. There's nothing I can do!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u86	Through the President, Mr President, fellow Member, Zdeněk Stanjur, I ask for a little generosity. Technically, you're probably right. You're literally right. But there are some special moments. Please understand the Sklenák guy's all upset about whether or not he's gonna be a minister. [[Laughter and amused applause in the hall.]] So he just forgot the prescribed wording at the time. But the deal between both our clubs was really here. He just didn't say it happily. Be generous for once, I'll pay you back some other time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u87	Yes, so also the factual remark of President Stanjura and then Deputy Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u88	Well, first of all, it's not. I really can't. Either the law applies... But to lighten things up a little bit. Dear colleague, Chairman TOP 09, you are not embarrassed if you will be a member of the government tomorrow or not. So you could have fixed the sklenák, like when you two made a deal. [[Again loud laughter and applause.]] It's very simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u89	There. Too bad there's no one to replace me. [[Laughs in the hall.]] I'd give a poem from our brilliant poet about the fur, but that's okay. Josef Kainar deserves it. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u90	Thank you, Mr President. All I can do is not express myself too much because I may be the only one in this House who has the legal authority to decide what is or is not animal abuse. However, from this point of view, I would argue that the Guarantee Committee should be an agricultural committee, because, in my opinion, it is also a professional education that belongs there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u91	Okay, thank you. This is still a debate. I see no one, I end the debate and I ask for final words. Mr. Assistant Speakers Robin Böhnisch reported for the final... [[Comments from the O.R.]] Okay, I'm sorry, Prime Minister. We've heard the motion again... [[Off-the-Mike briefing.]] I can't do that anymore... Okay. I respect that I made a mistake. It's my fault. I have no choice but to interrupt the negotiations before the vote. I admit my mistake. Stanjura's colleague is right about that. I really didn't require the necessary procedure. I'm done with the debate. I shall leave the final words of the representatives of the appellants and rapporteurs. All we have to do is vote on whether we reject it, extend the deadline, etc. We can't do that because my mistake was fatal because I didn't require the plaintiff of the president of the ČSSD Roman Sklenák Club to properly propose an extension of the negotiations after 19 o'clock. I beg your pardon. And now I ask the petitioner's representative to end it with his final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u92	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I suppose I am the penultimate rather than the last, so I hope that my colleagues and colleagues will have a short conclusion and a final word to hold. I particularly noted from my colleague Valentavýtka speech that I may not have been strong enough in the introductory words, but I pointed out that I would not be more extensive until the end of the debate. It is true that a number of arguments were raised here in the debate. Allow me to respond to some of the information that has been given in the debate in progress, or to some of the other documents that have come into my hands with regard to this proposal. I was hoping for a calm debate, and I must say that despite the fact that we touched the bottom of demagogy about three or four times, the debate was actually quite substantive. One of the main opponents of our proposal was colleague Babiš. I made a few notes about his performance. The first point was that traditional parties protect animals from elections.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u93	I ask for peace so that the petitioners' representatives can finish their final speech!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u94	I'm quite proud to be from the traditional side of social democracy, which has been here for 140 years. koneckonců all, this may indicate that the policy of this movement is somehow timelessly close to the people, the Čech. However, if the representative of the non-traditional party reminds us that we are engaged in animals before the elections, I remind you that the proposal was sent to Members on 16 March 2016 and the next elections to the House, if there is no unexpected event, should be in October next year, hopefully. Welfare really is not a key reason to submit this amendment. I was talking about it in my introduction. It is a philosophical-ethical position that breeding animals in Central Europe in the 21st century is only for furs is an excess, not a welfare. I must mention one important thing that traditionally appears as a folklore in all the speeches of opponents of our law, and this is the activity of activists in the past on some farms. There's always been an argument about attacks, about the destruction of property on farms. Ladies and gentlemen, we have received a letter from animal breeders who warn us that we may have succumbed to the lobbyist activities of vegan organizations. Do you feel, ladies and gentlemen, that members of lobbyist vegan organizations, people who eat neither eggs nor dairy products, come to the fur farm and spray animals with synthetic substances to endanger their lives? I don't think there's a way. The fact that there have been anarchist groups in the past, which were not so much animals, but about expressing their position on private property, is another matter, but please do not identify these people with activists who are involved in supporting our proposal. Illegal breeding. Ladies and gentlemen, I have nothing against Mongolia, but I will set an example. We're not in Mongolia. We have some density of settlement in the Czech Republic, and the idea that illegal breeding will occur somewhere and no one will notice it, and the breeding will thrive in illegality somewhere, no one will notice the smell, no one will notice the movement of cars, no one will notice the cube, it is completely illusory. I would not be afraid of illegal breeding in the Czech Republic in this respect. I thank my colleague Dolejš for the proposal that the Committee on the Environment be a guarantee committee. I agree with him because at a time when we are not interested in welfare, but in a philosophical-ethical matter, it should be the Committee on the Environment, which will deal with this standard as a guarantee committee already in view of the fact that he held two very interesting seminars, one mainly national and one international, 21 September and 20 October. So much for the debate going on. I have noted the comments of the Minister of Agriculture on our proposal, including not entirely conformal way of compensation for breeders. I am of the opinion that we have prepared a comprehensive amendment which addresses possible financial transfers in a different way. I suppose there might be some resources in the future in the resort. For example, if we leave out some kind of domestic fish action, we will find some resources in the resort in time. Shortly to the letters we received, or to the expression of the breeders of fur animals. I have noted, for example, the fantastic sentence of Mr David Remeš, the Secretary General of the Czech Breeders Association. I quote: "By human intervention, we have produced a modified product that is able to live in the conditions that we set for it." Thanks for the heads-up, I won't even comment. The second quote, which has already been made here today, is from Mr David Vojtíšek: "We have reason to believe that a large number of Members signed under the report have been exposed to pressure and unilateral false information from lobbyist activities of vegan organisations, while Members have not had the opportunity to create a qualified and balanced view." Well, ladies and gentlemen, let's go after the sentence where we were confused. Are there fur farms in the Czech Republic where animals are so-called leathered after eight months of life? They exist. I guess we're not confused here. Do they live in conditions that do not meet the ethical requirements? They're alive. I don't think we're confused and misguided here either. I suppose at the end of life, after that eighth month, mink after a gentleman's agreement doesn't give up his fur and walk away from a pile of other dead bodies, but there's just mass gassing of mink or killing foxes with electric current. So I suppose we do not mix with reality here either, as the chairman of the basic organization of breeding fur animals of the Czech Federation of Breeders believes. I suppose we have somehow dealt with the debate and some objections. Thank you for today's debate and I look forward to the final vote sometime next time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u95	Thank you to the representatives of the petitioners. Please, the rapporteur. Before taking the floor, I state the apology of Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek from 19 o'clock for work reasons. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u96	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. About the guarantee committee. I would call again for the agricultural committee to actually remain one, even because the petitioners essentially require that the costs incurred, which should be applied unilaterally, be paid by the Ministry of Agriculture. So it's just so much. Otherwise, I reaffirm that I propose a refusal at first reading and, provided that this is not accepted, I propose an extension of the time limit for committee discussions by 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-004-111.u97	I thank the rapporteur and interrupt paragraph 111 after the end of the final words and before the vote. At the same time, I will interrupt our 50th meeting in a moment. I look forward to meeting you tomorrow morning at 9 a.m. when we continue with third readings, namely points 173, commercial corporations, 187, medical professions, 186, pharmaceuticals, 189, authorized architects, and other points from third readings, up to 14 o'clock. Thank you and have a good evening.
