ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u1	260. Oral inhalation Oral interpelations are intended for the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, the Government of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifiers, we have drawn the ranking of Members in which they will speak and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka or the Government of the Czech Republic, from 14:30 to 16:00. To other members of the government from 16 to 18 o'clock. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I now give the floor to Mrs Jana Fischerová, who was drawn in the first place to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Bohuslav Sobotka. Mr. Jiří Koubek will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u2	Thank you for giving me the floor. Have a nice afternoon. Prime Minister, I'll get right to the subject. My interpelation concerns the Czech Republic and its position in Brexit negotiations. I've written down a few notes, so I'm gonna get on with it. It is clear that, for technical reasons at least, there will have to be a certain opening of European treaties in the negotiations for the departure of Great Britain from the European Union. We now have a starting position where we really have a chance to try to adapt these contracts to the benefit of the Czech Republic. At the very least, this must be opened up to the removal of references to the regulation of UK voting rights in the Council, which, of course, will no longer be there, and therefore the numbers of MEPs in the European Parliament. I watch the speech of the Secretary of State for European Affairs, I watch your speeches in media terms, and now I see at the same time clearly, I have to say unfortunately, the arguments between the coalition parties. I am therefore concerned whether the Czech Government has any common position in this negotiation. Prime Minister, I hereby ask you to use the opening of the treaties at least to negotiate an exception to the common asylum and migration policy and not to apply quotas - which we hear from our citizens every day and send us all e-mails, and this is probably the most important, migration crisis and all related - and other proposed measures for them at this time. I mean, for example. Unification of asylum procedures, unification of social benefits, etc. Those are really the suggestions I'm hearing. This morning in writing, I quote your words: "the difference in our view of foreign policy" when you responded to the interpelation, and I think we should all have the same for this. So I'm really interested in what has progressed, what has already been done in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u3	Thank you, and please, to the Prime Minister's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u4	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, I think this is quite interesting, this development, because although the referendum in the UK has already taken place some time ago and we are all here in Europe discussing what Brexit will mean and what conditions we will negotiate with Great Britain, so the UK has not yet formally announced to the European Union, which means that it has not told its partners in accordance with the treaties that it is leaving the European Union. This means that the key step that the British Government should take is to say that it is leaving the European Union, and from that point on, as the treaties expect, the minimum two-year deadline for negotiations with the Brit will begin to run on what conditions the United Kingdom will leave the European Union. Of course, this is not a stressful situation for us, because until the UK comes out of the European Union, the rights and obligations of members and the UK apply, which is particularly important for us in terms of our citizens who work in the UK to have the same conditions on the British labour market as the Brit. This is also important because the UK continues to contribute to the common European budget, from which the budget is financed, and we, as net beneficiaries from European funds, are not currently at risk by cutting the money we are counting on in our public budgets. So the Brit haven't filed the announcement yet. I think that we have clearly declared, the 27-year-old without the UK, that we are interested in the real-time Brit starting negotiations, and I cannot well imagine that we would continue this state for some time after the beginning of the new year. So I suppose, and so far, expectations in Europe are such that the Brit could announce at the turn of this year and next year that they are coming out of the European Union formally. It's a big change, I'm sure I agree with that. The Czech Republic must be ready for it, Europe will certainly respond to it. I think we got into this just like the Czech government. The Government has set up a working group for the withdrawal of Great Britain from the European Union and for addressing issues related to the future direction of the Union. Tomáš Prouza, Secretary for European Affairs, and the specific proposals that the working group will draw up, should be presented by the end of September of this year. This is therefore a group that operates on the basis of representatives of individual ministries. It has already started to meet and is working intensively to formulate our national interest, which we will promote in this context. Similarly, for the first time, the political working group, which I initiated also on the basis of the challenge of the opposition in the Chamber of Deputies, has been invited by all parliamentary parties to communicate on what proposals the Czech Republic will make regarding future changes in the European Union. I do not want to discuss the extent to which contracts need to be opened in connection with Brexit, and I do not think that this should be the key priority of the Czech Government primarily focusing on opening contracts. I think that we should focus on how to change the functioning of the European Union positively so that the European Union is more operational, to better perceive the needs of its Member States, but also the needs of its citizens. I think that we should therefore focus on promoting two key objectives. The first should be the long-term prosperity of the Member States, which means ensuring a Europe that creates good conditions for economic growth and employment. We should take advantage of the four fundamental freedoms and protect them within the European Union. We should use Schengen, free movement, and we should protect it, and we should also use European funds to further support the development of the poorer parts of the European Union, which still includes a large part of the Czech Republic. This means using all the instruments to support growth. Well, the second key priority, where I think there is a broad consensus, even in Europe, is that we should strengthen security against internal and external threats, which means that we should strive to ensure that there is a stronger common foreign and security policy, that we should work on a project of a common European army, common protection of external Schengen borders, a better fight against threats to terrorism, organised crime. Europe should simply be a guarantee of security for citizens. These are, let's say, the material objectives with which I will, after all, also go to Bratislava as Prime Minister of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u5	Thank you. Mrs Fischerová, would you like to ask an additional question? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u6	Thank you for your answer. Those last words, Prime Minister, about a common European army, we may have different opinions on that. We are a member of NATO and there we promise to increase revenue. Well, our deposit, our involvement. So I'd like to focus on one priority. But now I'm going to ask you a follow-up question. Please nicely, I know that this Monday in Krynica, Poland, V4 met and I read from the media that not all opinions were united. I think there was talk of the future of the European Union. So I would need a specific answer, in particular, in which it was different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u7	Thank you. I'll ask the Prime Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u8	Although the V4 has shown a great degree of cohesion, not everything necessarily needs to have a common view within the V4 framework. Where we agreed within the framework of the V4 is precisely the emphasis on strengthening the security dimension of European cooperation. I think that Hungary has clearly expressed a positive opinion on the joint European army project, and Slovakia has also expressed its support for the debate on this subject. We have agreed that Europe should work more together to protect its external borders, that we should concentrate on tackling migration where it arises, that is to support those countries that are the source territories of migration. We also agree within the framework of the V4 that there is no way that the issue of quotas for the compulsory redistribution of refugees should be opened in Europe, and that we do not agree with the transfer of national powers in the area of migration policy to central European level. Here I think there's a consensus at least in these areas. Likewise, there is agreement that we should continue to support the use of European funds, European cohesion policy, defending four freedoms, defending them in relation to the UK as regards our people who are working today from the heart of Europe in Great Britain. Where there are differences, the question is whether individual countries can imagine opening up existing European treaties. Here Poland and Hungary have opinions that do not rule out the opening of contracts in principle, but do not want to start the debate. Slovakia and the Czech Republic are more reserved in this respect and we would rather talk about practical improvement in the functioning of the Union and institutions based on existing contracts. And on one more thing, we agree, and that is that the political initiative in the European Union must be held by the European Council, where the Heads of Government of individual countries are represented. The European Commission cannot take this political initiative from the nature of the matter, but there must be a balance between European institutions, between the European Council, the European Commission and the Parliament.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u9	Thank you. And now I ask another in turn, and that is Mr Jiří Koubek, to present his intervention on the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u10	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, I am addressing you on the following matter. ČEZ decided to sell approximately 740 flats at the Prague housing estate in Písnice. It is an old housing estate including a public area with more than seven hectares and has about one quarter of the inhabitants of the Prague-Libuš district. Along with these apartments, he also sells a nearby business center, but that's not the subject of my interpelation, I want to deal with the housing fund. This is not the first time CEZ has decided to sell this large apartment fund. It was the first time already in 2003. At that time, ČEZ encouraged citizens to set up housing cooperatives, with their apartments being sold to them. People then took out mortgages or sold other properties, so that they could have enough money to pay back in time the amount that CEZ demanded from them. And it must be said that people were willing to pay this amount and were ready to buy out the apartments. However, two weeks before the signing of the contract, ČEZ withdrew from its offer. Now, after 12 years, CEZ decided again to sell the housing fund, including the public area, but did not make the offer directly to the tenants, but decided to sell the whole housing estate by public holding, respectively. To the highest bidder. ČEZ sold his apartments in other cities in the past, but sold them to tenants. Several thousand flats were sold in this form. Of course, not all tenants took advantage of this option, they didn't have any money, or they just didn't want to, but they got this offer. Unfortunately, residents of the housing estate The songs do not have this offer because they did not receive it from ČEZ. I have a question for you: How will you deal with this case? It does not seem very transparent and I would like the Minister of Finance, who is your colleague in the government and is responsible to you, to explain the whole case in detail and you can deal with the case in detail.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u11	Thank you. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u12	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I thank you for pointing this out. I've requested evidence from the Treasury Department. I assume that the Ministry of Finance has requested these documents from ČEZ from some part of it. And I would only like to respond very briefly at this point on the basis of the information that I have been given to this interpelation. First of all, I would like to remind you that the housing houses at the Písnice housing estate were acquired by ČEZ into its property on the basis of a privatisation project and it was in 1990, especially in 1995 and subsequently when CEZ acquired these residential buildings, residential buildings and related land. So it was part of privatization of the property of the state enterprise Czech Energy Plant, state enterprise. And as part of this privatisation around 1995 the apartments went to CEZ. Indeed, the housing fund was already ready for sale in 2001, but in 2003 the sale to cooperatives consisting of tenants was suspended because CEZ received unsolicited investor offers from an external environment. This resulted in several litigations by tenants of sold flats for the obligation to sell the owner of the apartment. The disputes lasted until 2012 with the result that the courts gave CEZ the truth. CEZ therefore states that on the basis of the obligation of the owner to deal with the care of a proper economy and due to the socio-economic situation in the capital of the Czech Republic, the company has decided on a variant of the sale in the form of a tender for the most advantageous offer. The decision on the sale of the housing fund in Prague was based on calculations in several variants which established the economic advantage of the method of sale thus determined. The company states that ČEZ's authorities and supervisory board discussed this strategy. The information I have at my disposal also contains a part concerning the social aspect which has been included in the conditions of this competition. It is the possibility of a commitment of the future owner, the commitment of the candidate to make, no later than three years after the signature of the purchase contract, any legal act aimed at declaring the division of the right to immovable property, the obligation to offer, in preference, to the purchase of the tenants using the individual unit on the date of registration of these units in the real estate register, with the provision that the purchase price for such sale should be fixed. Furthermore, the applicant's obligation to keep the rent in individual flats in the current amount, especially for five years after the conclusion of the purchase contract, or to not increase the rent in individual flats by more than 10%, for a period of five years from the date of conclusion of the purchase contract. The situation is not simple from the Government's point of view, because the management of ČEZ's assets, where the State therefore owns 70 percent of the shares, but the remaining shares are owned by private shareholders, so the management of the company's assets is governed by the Commercial Corporation Act as with any other company. This belongs to the business management of the company, which falls within the competence of the board of directors of the company. And according to the law I quoted, no one is allowed to give instructions to the board regarding the company's business management. The Ministry of Finance is one of ČEZ's shareholders and is not legally authorized to interfere with the company's business management, even though it is a majority shareholder. Nevertheless, I was assured that the Ministry of Finance would be intensively concerned with the matter, asking its representatives at the Supervisory Board of ČEZ to pay particular attention to this competition. It is also true that current tenants can set up a cooperative and take part in the selection procedure. [[14.50 hours]] I also have information here about the fact that the stock investors indicated the submission of a criminal notification to CEZ's management if they sold flats at non-market prices and also to anyone who expressed himself in public space in this sense and had decision-making powers. Supposedly, it could be a lure to a crime of breach of custody in the management of foreign property. It is, of course, important for me first of all, that such a variant of sales is realized, which will be as transparent as possible, that is, there will be a completely transparent process, a social aspect will be taken into account and will be handled in accordance with the care of a proper economic operator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u13	Your time, Prime Minister, I'm sorry, but the clock is relentless. [[- Yes.]] Now is the time for Mr Koubek's supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u14	Dear Prime Minister, thank you for your response to this. To put you in a bit of a position. Those tenants are very disadvantaged by the fact that they can't make a complete offer. CEZ, which prepared this sale for several years, announced this fact to the tenants on 27 June t. r., i.e. shortly before the holidays, before the holidays, with the offer being submitted by 21 October. So the impression that tenants can set up a housing cooperative, agree with the bank on credit is simply a false impression and these tenants have at least been very disadvantaged in this regard. Moreover, we must realise that these people have invested in their apartments beyond normal maintenance, among other things, because ČEZ has been making a good impression on these people for 15 years that they will one day be sold out to them. That means it makes me very bitter that the whole process is not transparent, and I'm glad that you mentioned that word and that you're going to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u15	Thank you. The Prime Minister will respond. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u16	Thank you. I have the indicative timetable for the tender, and, as the Member said, there is a deadline for the submission of tenders on 21 October of this year. And I also have information here that, indeed, all the tenants were informed about the sale of the intent of the sale 27. 6th of this year. I agree with the Member's view that this is therefore a very short time limit, given how long the whole process has been prepared, and I will certainly be interested in why such a period has been set and whether, for example, it would be possible to consider, within a transparent process, that sufficient room should be provided for all interested parties who would like to take part in this selection procedure so that there is no discrimination, that there are really equal, fair conditions. So here I think that this question is certainly appropriate, and I will definitely ask the representative of the Ministry of Finance to ask ČEZ's management that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u17	Thank you. And now, to the microphone, please, Mrs Marta Semelová, to present her interview to the Prime Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u18	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, I will follow up on the previous interpellation, because the subject of this interpelation is the same. You said you'd be watching the situation, but I don't think there's any way your answer can satisfy the tenants. You, as a representative of the state, should step in. Because if you're talking about being promised that five years isn't gonna change the rent rate, or that a maximum of 10 percent, then what are these people gonna do then? What is the guarantee that something else will not happen? What is the guarantee that the developer will not be involved, who will want to make very much use of not only the apartments but also the land that is near the planned subway station D? What guarantee is there that it will not be sold to a third party for which the tenants will just be an obstacle to their business intentions? It is not only about the Song, it is also about 33 apartments in Vršovice. There was talk about the need for ČEZ to behave with the care of a proper caretaker. First of all, I would like to point out that ČEZ did not care about the flats with care of the proper economy, that it only put in one amount concerning the exchange of windows and climbers - from the EU subsidy. Everything else was paid for by these tenants, put money into it. They were corporate apartments, they worked hundreds of hours to improve the environment. It was handed over to ČEZ for free, and now someone wants to raise money at the expense of these very people! I consider this highly immoral, highly antisocial and economically highly opaque. I would like to point out that you, as Social Democrats, claim that flats are not ordinary goods, that each person has the right to a roof over his head. And here these people are getting into enormous uncertainty. They're desperate, they're calling for demonstrations, they're writing petitions. That's an entirely inadequate answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u19	I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u20	Thank you. I just want to assure the Chamber of Deputies and the Member, Madam Vice-President, that the government was not the one who initiated this process. Indeed, we did not give any incentive as the government of the Czech Republic to ČEZ to carry out the sale of these flats. There was no reason for that. I will certainly be interested in what reasons CEZ led, that it decided to sell these flats here, and what reasons led to the setting of the timetable in the way we talked about it a little while ago, because I believe that these terms are not ideally set and that it would be necessary to look at it with the eyes of ordinary tenants. If they have time and space to possibly participate in the tender in some of their own cooperation, then sufficient time should be provided and no one should benefit. So that's the first thing I'm gonna want to know about the reasons. Secondly, why such a schedule was set, whether it is possible to do something about it, with the timetable. I don't think there's any urgency here from the government's and government's policy point of view to any such operation being carried out. CEZ's government certainly did not give any direction or incentive in this regard, nor could we actually do so, this is indeed a business corporation where the government has a majority stake but is not a 100% shareholder. If it was a form of state enterprise, we could certainly influence this matter in a direct way. So thank you once again for the warning in both of these interventions on this case, and I'm sure I'll be interested in that and I'll address the questions I've introduced you to through the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u21	The honourable Member wants to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u22	Thank you. I don't think it's just a timetable, it's not just reasons. They'll explain to you how they'll need it, how they'll need it. I think if the government here is saying that there's nothing they can do, that they're just going to deal with it, I'm asking what citizens can do. What can the tenants do? They started the housing squad you recommended here a long time ago. They wanted to buy the apartments long before that, so they could be sure. As the previous speaker here said, they had the cabins sold, they sold cars, they took out disadvantageous loans. The housing team did all this, and then this major state participation company actually fooled them and left them in all of this. So I think the government should step in with all the effort and much more.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u23	Thank you. Prime Minister, will you respond? You won't. Okay. Please, the next in line is Vice-President of the House, Petr Gazdík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u24	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Dear Prime Minister, a total of about 70 Chinese Christians are waiting in the Czech Republic for a decision on their application for asylum. Ten came in last September, a year ago, another 60 in the first half of this year. The Ministry of the Interior has not yet decided on their applications, on the contrary, extending the deadline for decision-making and assessment. I would like to ask: Does it seem adequate to you that the assessment of such a request takes so long, in the case of the first arrivals for a whole year? Does the delay simply have to do with the fact that the Czech Republic has de facto recognised human rights violations in China at a time when both the government and the president are bonding with the Chinese regime? Will you continue to be interested in the fate of these particular people? And what measures will the government take to ensure that, in particular, in the context of the migration crisis that is troubling Europe, asylum decisions are transparent and, above all, swift? Because we can face a much larger crowd of immigrants in the future, and if it takes more than a year to manage, we will have a huge problem. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u25	Thank you. And I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u26	Thank you, Madam Vice-President. The Ministry of Interior has been registering applicants for international protection from China for several years. That means, it's nothing new that's gonna happen here until now. The Czech Republic has always been outside the mainstream of China's illegal migration and its asylum applications. The administrative procedure under the Asylum Act is currently under way with all applicants for international protection mentioned here by the Member. This procedure is not by law public, therefore it is not possible to disclose any more detailed information on individual cases. This applies to all asylum procedures. All asylum seekers are treated equally. It doesn't matter if they come from China or if they come from Malaysia, Burma, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Syria, Ukraine, Cuba. All asylum seekers shall be treated equally. It is not possible to prefer anyone, it is not possible to ignore someone if the laws of the Czech Republic are fulfilled. The number of applicants for international protection from China has been stablely low in recent years. In 2015, the applicants from China took seventh place in the rankings of applications submitted by nationality. It was a 40-pound circus. In total, 66 applications for international protection were submitted in 2016 for the last August of this year with regard to people from China. The success of Chinese applicants for international protection has been very low in the long term. In 2015, all the Interior Ministry's decisions were negative. The standard time limit for processing the application shall be six months. In factual or legally complex cases, this can be extended by up to a further nine months and, in the extreme case, by up to 12 months. In the case of this group, there has been an extension. The new deadline does not mean that decisions will not be issued until the deadline. Administrative proceedings are under way at the moment. Individual administrative acts shall be carried out and specific decisions shall be issued gradually within the time limits set. The extension of the deadline serves to ensure and establish all relevant circumstances so that a decision can be made in accordance with the law. In particular, where the applicant is unable to provide evidence of his or her testimony, a large-scale examination of the situation is required. If the assessment of applicants for international protection by the Ministry of the Interior lasts for a number of months, this fact is in no way out of practice in other countries. For example, in the United States of America, many requests for Syrian refugees have recently been dealt with after a circus for one year of treatment. This means, in terms of international customs, that our deadlines available to us are not exceptional. Applicants for international protection from China also include statistics from other countries of the European Union. For the record, France has the largest number of applicants in hundreds a month. The proportion of successful applications is very different in the European Union. On average, around 30 percent of the positive decision is made. In relation to applications, the collection of information on the country of origin is currently taking place, focusing on specific cases, in order to determine the maximum information applicable to procedural procedures. Standard asylum interviews are carried out with all persons. The number of interviews depends on specific cases and documentation by the applicant for international protection. Administrative proceedings under the Asylum Act shall be carried out on an individual basis. The granting of international protection is affected only by the circumstances laid down by the law and laid down by the international treaty. This is where I want to respond to the interpellation of the Member. No other circumstances affect this procedure. Nor is it collective management involving any group or groups of asylum seekers. It is always an individual decision on each individual applicant for international protection. I can clearly rule out any political pressure or that the government has a special policy that concerns asylum seekers from China. So I want it to continue to be so that the legality of this place is clearly valid. This means that we follow our laws and direct international treaties. As I have already mentioned, standard time limits are set here, until which such a procedure can be extended to the maximum. So much very briefly basic information on the case of applicants for international protection from China, and I assume that these applications will be dealt with individually in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u27	Thank you. And now it's time for a follow-up question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u28	She won't be a follow-up question anymore. Rather, thank you, Prime Minister, for the assurance that there is no politically motivated influence on specific applicants. However, given the situation in Europe and in the world, I would like to ask you personally to make your government work to ensure that the asylum process lasts as soon as possible for officials to be ready for it, because we see what is happening in Germany and other countries. And it creates huge problems. I wish our country were prepared for this, if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u29	Thank you. Prime Minister, will you respond? Yes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u30	Thank you. Fortunately, I think the Czech Republic is in a different situation than Austria or Germany, where in fact all their institutions are dramatically overloaded today with regard to the total number of asylum seekers or applicants for international protection. Our situation is different. We have tried to apply Schengen rules consistently. This means rules from Dublin and others that precisely defined how to deal with refugees, illegal migrants. And we are trying to really follow these rules. I believe that the capacities available to the Ministry of the Interior today, given how much asylum seekers we have here about a year or so, should allow real-time processing within the time limits that I have set. That means there shouldn't be any excessive delays. Just in order. The number of asylum seekers is somewhere around 700, 800 a year, in some years it will exceed a thousand. So they're not as dramatic numbers as we know from countries like Germany or Austria. And hopefully in the future, we will also be in control of this situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u31	Thank you and I now ask Mr Seďa's microphone to present his interpellation to the Prime Minister. Mr Grospič will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u32	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Mr. Prime Minister. I think, Prime Minister, that we agree that a number of families with children are struggling with a lack of funding for their offspring's education and education, and therefore they have a lower average standard of living than children's. At the same time, not only our whole country, but the whole European Union has negative demographic developments. Therefore, I personally welcome any support for families with children, because it is more appropriate than addressing demographic problems with the help of migrants. From this point of view, Prime Minister, I would like to ask about the concrete steps of the government in the area of support for families with children. I registered that the government approved an increase in tax credit for parents with two, three or more children in July. I therefore ask how much this discount is going to be. Prime Minister, the government approved a draft amendment to the Act on State Social Support before the holidays, which should help families to reconcile family and work life and allow for a more flexible parental contribution. Therefore, I want to ask what will happen with the drawdown limits, because today the maximum possible amount of the allowance per month is set at CZK 11,500 and the amendment to the law abolishes this limit. Therefore, I also want to ask how it will be after the adoption of the amendment of the law and, where appropriate, what other changes the amendment of the law brings. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u33	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u34	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to implement the Government's programming declaration, where we have committed ourselves to significantly reducing the tax burden on families with more than one child. We therefore gradually increase each year by a little tax reduction, which concerns parents with two, three or more children. This means that next year, compared to this year, the tax credit for the second child should increase by CZK 200 per month to CZK 19 404 per year and to CZK 300 per month to CZK 24 204 per year. This means, in fact, it is the next step that we have implemented in the framework of the amendment to the Income Tax Act. [[15.10 hours]] With regard to the other issue of state social support, the amendment provides an opportunity for parents to decide for themselves the amount and duration of parental contribution from the State social support system. The maximum monthly parental allowance will increase to up to 70 per cent of the measurement base, i.e. to the mother level. This step will, in particular, enable mothers to return to work earlier. Today, if at least one of the parents in the family can be determined at the date of the birth of the youngest child in the family with cash assistance for maternity in excess of CZK 7,600, the parent can choose the amount of parental allowance for the part of the maternity allowance, but not more than CZK 11,500 per month. Therefore, the current limit on the upper limit of the monthly amount of parental allowance will be abolished and it will be possible to draw a dose up to CZK 32,000. The total amount of parental allowance of CZK 220 000 000 will thus be able to be exhausted in less time than at present. So the acceleration could be up to six months at the highest limit. So very briefly about Mr Sedi's question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u35	Thank you. Ambassador, would you like to ask an additional question? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u36	Prime Minister, thank you for your specific answers. I'm glad the tax discount is growing. You spoke of the Czech Government's programming statement. I also found there from the point of view of concrete support for families with children only reducing the tax burden. I wanted to ask if your government is preparing any further changes to support families with children by the end of its term of office, not only in tax matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u37	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u38	I can give some specific examples. The first is the question of the complete abolition of the condition of monitoring the child's attendance at pre-school facilities. At present, attendance is monitored in children under two years of age. These children may stay in pre-school facilities for a maximum of 46 hours per calendar month. This condition should be completely abolished and only proper care of the child in the family will be monitored. What is also important from the perspective of families with children and pre-school care is actually the gradual extension of guarantees that it is possible to place a child in a pre-school facility, i.e. gradually reduces the limit in which the guarantee is provided from the perspective of the child's age. We are also trying to invest funds in expanding the capacities of primary and kindergarten schools. Unlike in the past, our government has provided subsidy programmes that municipalities can acquire in this area, which I think has practically contributed significantly in the last two years to the expansion of these capacities. So that's one of the other examples. I just want to remind you that, in accordance with our programme statement, we have also introduced the birth rate to the second child and have increased the threshold of entitlement, i.e. the limit of income to which the birth rate in the Czech Republic can be obtained, up to 2.7 times the life minimum. So I think that was the next step that we really expressed more support for families with children.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u39	I thank you, and now I ask Mr Grospič's microphone to present his interpellation. Mrs Váhalová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u40	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Mr President, let me ask you two questions during today's interview. The Czech Republic is currently undergoing extensive military exercises in the framework of the North Atlantic Alliance, which includes the Czech Republic. Participation in this exercise should be discussed by the Chamber of Deputies under press number 703. However, this situation has not yet happened. I am aware that Article 43 provides alternative options and does not make this subject clearly subject to the necessary consent of either of the chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic, albeit giving them equal status, i.e. the two chambers of Parliament may raise this question and shall be deemed to have spoken either if they adopt this proposal by agreeing to it or if they do not agree to it. This decision, if it were to take place, would be conditional in relation to the government. I want to ask you how you view this as Prime Minister on the situation in which the Czech Republic and the position of your government in relation to the fact that the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic did not express itself clearly, only took note of this information, and the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic received this information, but not immediately, because the Government decided on it last December and the Constitution imposes an obligation in Article 43 to inform the Government immediately and the information came to Parliament of the Czech Republic with more than a month's delay. In addition, one of the committees of the Parliament of the Czech Republic adopted it in this situation, and the decision of the plenary of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, the Chamber of Deputies specifically, as one of the chambers, is only ahead of us. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] I therefore consider that the position of the Government of the Czech Republic needs to be taken in this context.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u41	I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u42	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, as regards the plan for this year's military exercises, the government approved the plan last December and we presented it to the House and the Senate according to the information I have at my disposal in January this year. This means, in my opinion, the government acted in accordance with what it should do, i.e. We presented the plan at the beginning of this year. Unfortunately, the Chamber of Deputies has not dealt with it as a whole yet, and as far as I know, negotiations are proposed for September meetings. So what does our legislation say? It says that the government decides to participate in military exercises according to Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) (b) the Constitution. It shall immediately inform the two chambers of Parliament of such decisions. When Parliament takes note of the Government's decision, it is solely within its jurisdiction and the government has no way of influencing it. So the decision from the perspective of the Constitution is for the Government of the Czech Republic. The government has decided on this matter by discussing and approving a military exercise plan. It provided this information immediately to Parliament, but, in my opinion, Parliament, as it follows from the legislation, either takes note of this information or does not comment on it. But that does not mean that the Government's decision should be called into question in any way, because the key obligation laid down in the legislation says that the Government is to inform Parliament on this matter. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 43 The Constitution is decided by Parliament by its binding resolution on the following issues: It decides to declare a state of war if the Czech Republic is attacked or if international contractual obligations on joint defence against assault have to be fulfilled. Parliament decides on the participation of the Czech Republic in defence systems of an international organisation, which the Czech Republic is a member of. Furthermore, Parliament agrees (a) to send the armed forces of the Czech Republic outside the territory of the Czech Republic and (b) to reside armed forces of other states in the territory of the Czech Republic, unless such decisions are reserved to the Government. And the government decides to send the armed forces of the Czech Republic outside the territory of the Czech Republic and to stay armed forces of other states in the territory of the Czech Republic for a maximum period of 60 days - and again here it is specified in which cases the government decides this. In those powers, to remind it again, which are addressed to the government, the government also decides on the participation of the armed forces in military exercises outside the territory and the participation of the armed forces of other states in military exercises in the territory of the Czech Republic. I believe that there can be no doubt about the legality of these exercises because it was approved by the Government in December 2015 and subsequently informed by Parliament.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u43	Thank you. Ambassador, would you like to put it down? Yes, it is. Please ask the follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u44	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I would like to ask a supplementary question to the Prime Minister, which concerns what the Government's legislation considers to be immediate information, whether it is a period of one week, 14 days, one month, and how it views government legislation when one of the chambers is expressed ambiguously in the intentions of this law, i.e. only takes note, and the second chamber shows the will to deal with this, however ex post, i.e. actually during this exercise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u45	I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u46	Thank you. I must say that there was certainly no intention of the government in any way to delay the delivery of the government's decision by which the government approved the military exercise plan for this year, in any way to delay the delivery of this information to the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, and I assume that the process was proceeding in a perfectly standard manner. So here I think there's been no delay, virtually. We have progressed within what can be seen as an immediate procedure. I do not think that there is really a problem if the information provided is taken into account by an institution of Parliament or by the Chamber as a whole. It's standard access to information, i.e. the information can be taken into account, it is actually the conclusion of the discussion of such information on the floor of the parliamentary chamber, and I do not think that this calls into question the legality, legitimacy of the military exercises that have taken place on the basis of this plan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u47	Thank you. And before I give the floor to Mrs Váhalová, I will make two apologies. Mr Jaroslav Klaška apologizes for today's meeting from 14.45 for personal reasons and Minister Brabec apologizes for the afternoon meeting from 17 o'clock for urgent working reasons. I will now ask Mrs Váhalová to give her interview to the Prime Minister. Mr Martin Novotný will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u48	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, dear colleagues, at the end of April, the government agreed to support the regeneration and business use of brownfields. The main objective of the national programme is to solve the problem of brownfields in the Czech Republic. Supporting the regeneration of these unused, neglected and often contaminated industrial buildings is intended to contribute to economic and regional development. Two billion crowns from the state budget for the period 2017 to 2023 are earmarked for drawing from the programme to support the regeneration and business use of brownfields. The subsidies from the programme are exclusively intended for municipalities and regions situated in the territory of structurally affected regions, which is the region of Moravskoslezský, Ústecký and Karlovarský, and into economically troubled regions. As a Member of the Moravian-Silesian Region, I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, how this programme should work and what the conditions for drawing will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u49	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u50	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I would like to say, honourable Members, first of all, that I consider the Brownfield revitalization programme to be very necessary and effective, because we have met often with legitimate criticism in the past, that a number of business activities have focused on loose land, as a result of which there have also been trades in arable land, there has been a significant transformation of some sites on the outskirts of our municipalities and cities, and yet very often they remain unused and they are not able to revitalize the land left over the past economic activity, often even after companies that have ceased as a result of the transformation in the 1990s, and it is still necessary to revitalize these areas. We also see that even in the premises of some traditional enterprises there has been a concentration of production, there remain parts of these companies that are not economically exploited, and yet if they invest there, it can start up opportunities for business in the future. So we have a program to support the revitalization and business use of brownfields for the years 2017 to 2023. Within the framework of the implementation of this programme, we want to focus on the creation of smaller business buildings in areas with higher unemployment. We expect the revitalization of brownfields in supported regions to help create up to 2,000 new jobs, encourage competitiveness, improve the quality of the environment and increase the attractiveness of the environment. The estimated amount of funds for the implementation of the programme is about CZK 2 billion, which will be released gradually from the state budget. The beneficiaries of the subsidies are municipalities and regions in structurally affected regions, which is Ústecký, Karlovarský and Moravskoslezský kraj, and in economically troubled regions that initiated the creation of the programme. As I said before, the revitalization of brownfields has positive effects on the environment, but of course it also has significant social and urban effects. I would like to remind you that the issue of the revitalization of privately owned brownfields for industrial use is addressed within the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness, Real Estate Programme, and the aim of this programme, which is financed by European funds, is to facilitate the modernisation of obsolete, spatially and technically non-compliant buildings for the implementation of supported economic activities or to replace them with new buildings for business in all regions, with the exception of the capital city of Prague. So again, I think a very useful programme under the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation. Modernization of production facilities, reconstruction of existing obsolete infrastructure and reconstruction of brownfield buildings is also supported. The investment that is the subject of the supported project must be included in the national brownfield database. One call with allocation of CZK 1.5 billion has been announced for the time being, the selection process is being completed and legal acts are being issued for the granting of aid. The next challenge is planned in the autumn of this year and the allocation should be around 950 million crowns. At the same time, a national brownfield regeneration strategy is being prepared by 2020 prepared by CzechInvest and the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and the approval of the national brownfield regeneration strategy is foreseen by the end of 2016. So what I have said here, I think it clearly shows that the government is trying to give us conceptual access to brownfields in the Czech Republic. We are trying to use both money from national sources, by which I mean the Ministry of Industry and Trade programme, so we are trying to use money from European funds, by which I mean the Real Estate programme under the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u51	Thank you, Prime Minister. Does the Member wish to ask an additional question? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u52	I personally very much welcome this programme, also its objective, because I know that the project, which localized brownfields and ended sometime in 2007, showed that there are 2,355 locations in our country, and that was not counted for those that arose from mining activities. And these locations can definitely be used better and different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u53	Thank you. Prime Minister, will you respond? You won't, okay. I ask Mr Martin Novotný to present his interpellation to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u54	Good afternoon. Dear Prime Minister, recently, for many of us, you have surprisingly strongly and surprisingly supported the creation of a common European army. In a situation where, in the European Union, after brexit and after a lot of other conflicting and non-consensual topics such as immigration solutions, etc. there is great uncertainty over mechanisms of coordination of various activities, above the level of national sovereignty, etc., at the same time in a situation where there is a great debate about NATO, its future, a debate in which, let's face it, we have one significantly weak card, and that is our failure to comply with financial commitments in terms of defence spending against GDP. [[15.30 hours]] This morning, as part of a discussion, you mentioned the question of Atlantic ties, the future of this topic in the politics of Europe and the world. Are you really convinced that in a situation where a number of things, existing institutions, forms of cooperation do not work optimally, it is right to open a new topic, to start building another alternative idea of a common European army? Isn't it a contradiction when we fail to meet our obligations within one financial arrangement to create a new situation that will also have some financial requirements? Isn't such a tendency to open a new game on another chessboard rather than trying to solve existing problems of existing institutions that may not work optimally, but which we should solve first? And finally, one last question. Isn't it at a time when European nations and citizens are very sensitive to how they are forced to do some things, to open up the issue of militaryism, the model where obedience and command are the most sensitive issue, the least appropriate area for European cooperation? [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u55	Ambassador, I'm sorry. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u56	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, first of all, I would like to say to begin my response to the interpelation that I am a follower of transatlantic cooperation. I think it is one of the important axes in terms of ensuring Europe's security. And in the long run, I think it is important that security cooperation between the United States, Canada, Great Britain and the countries of the European Union that are members of NATO and those other NATO member countries be preserved here in the future. We're just stronger together, we have more respect together. And of course, the security guarantees given by NATO are much more important if NATO is based on transatlantic cooperation. If I'm talking about a European army project, I don't mean a European army that would compete with NATO. I am based on the fact that a large part of the Member States of the European Union are at the same time a member of the North Atlantic Alliance, although not all of them, but a large part of the countries of the Union are. However, when we look at some practical examples where, for example, we tried to involve NATO in security operations that we had a strong interest in as the European Union, it turns out that it can either not be done at all or that it is very difficult. A practical example was the effort to organise a NATO operation against human smugglers in the Aegean Sea quickly. For many months, discussions took place on NATO soil, whether such a thing is possible at all. And only when the Aegean situation deteriorated significantly did it happen that this operation was launched. And then, of course, it took a very long time to discuss, even with the Member State of Turkey, the extent to which this operation will also be able to move in the waters along the Turkish coast. So it doesn't work out perfectly well. And I am convinced that we are already here today to create contractual conditions to strengthen cooperation in the field of defence. Surely the journey to a common European army will not be easy. This will require a number of important negotiations and, above all, consensus within the European Union. And I don't mean that as a project that should come from above, which should be dictated to us, such as the European Commission, but I want it to be a project that is from below. After all, there may be enhanced cooperation in the first phase of a group of European defence countries. We have battle group projects, but those battle group have never actually been deployed. That means we have no experience of their operation in any regime truly civilian or military operations. I think that the issue of security in today's world is urgent in Europe because citizens in Europe have the feeling that Europe, the European Union, European integration is not helping them to ensure security and that, on the contrary, in some cases, it can even contribute to the deterioration of the security situation. It can't be like this anymore. And I see the issue of strengthening cooperation in the field of defence, although the debate before us is still difficult, as something where we can show people in Europe that security is one of the priorities of European cooperation and European integration. I am not surprised because, for example, the European Union's response to the migration wave was very slow. It turns out that sufficient capacity is not allocated, that perhaps it is often not just the involvement of policemen, that we would need, if we had the mechanisms created, even to involve soldiers in protecting the external Schengen border of the European Union. But such mechanisms are not available. So I do not think that Europe's aim should be to build any NATO competition, but we should be able to have a European priority in a situation where it is a European priority and it is not a priority for the entire North Atlantic Alliance, to carry out within Europe its own civilian or military security operations primarily to protect Europe, that is, to protect the European Union's external borders, primarily to help, for example, in countries that are affected by some serious problems, such as terrorist attacks and the like, so that Europe has a greater impact on what is happening in its immediate vicinity. So it's a matter that, in my opinion, is worth discussing. I would like to remind you that many other countries, including France or Germany, are considering strengthening cooperation on defence and security at this level, and Hungary is also considering this, and Hungary is talking about a joint European army project. So we are certainly not alone either within the Visegrad Group and I assume that this will also be a topic that we will discuss at the Bratislava Summit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u57	Thank you. Ambassador, would you like to ask an additional question? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u58	Perhaps a letter rather than an additional question. The condition of building any such institutions, military-type bodies on international soil must be some doctrinal consensus, i.e., those units must operate in an environment where there is some same view of how they should approach problems and what they should do. In this respect, I think that the main problem is because if we build a common European army aimed, for example, at the external protection of the Schengen area, and if we do not agree at European level over the mechanisms for the functioning of the penetration of this space and the like, and we do not have a doctrinal consensus in this, the possible common army will be completely toothless, because it will not simply be clear what to do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u59	Thank you. Prime Minister, will you respond? Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u60	I don't think there's any reason for us to argue about this. I think that is that if we are to talk about enhanced cooperation in the field of defence, at that first stage, perhaps some common European units that we will be able to mobilize in real time, it must be clear how these units can be deployed, under what conditions and what purpose their deployment will be. I think that's obvious. I just have to say that my practical experience is that Europe simply did not have the elementary capacity to cope with the migration crisis of the extent that we have now experienced and which, unfortunately, we will be experiencing for some time now. That means we have to have the capacity created, and we just... In fact, we have mobilized the strengthening of Frontex's capacity on an ad hoc basis. There was no common European coastal and border guards created here. For example, I consider the joint European Border and Coast Guard project to be a breakthrough under the impression of the migration crisis, so things that would otherwise take years and years against which many countries initially protested as an intervention into their sovereignty, so, thanks to the current situation, they actually went through the entire process of creating a common European Coast and Border Guard within a few months. I think this is an example of how this strengthened military cooperation within the European Union could work in the future. I'm sure I agree that the primary thing is that we do our own homework in order to maintain the trajectory of strengthening our defense spending in the coming years. It has, of course, been a little easier now as a result of the strong economic boom that the Czech Republic is experiencing. We really have a very good implementation of the state budget. We collect taxes well, so we manage to increase defense spending. But, of course, we need a long-term process so that we can get to the goal agreed by our coalition, which means that defense spending is at least 1.4 gross domestic product around 2020.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u61	Your time, Prime Minister. Thank you. And now, to Mr. Šincl's microphone, I ask him to give his interpellation to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, at the beginning of this school year, reports appeared in the media, such as the volume of teacher wages will increase by 8 percent, the tariff salary by 6 percent, the salaries of non-teaching staff in education will rise by 5%, the tariff by 4 percent, all as of 1 September. On September 1st, as a member of one of the school councils of an elementary school, I went personally to check if this was really the case. It really wasn't like that. I don't know if you know, but the director told me it was going to happen, and it's going to be a little bit later. I don't know if you know this, but even after this increase in the salary of teachers with higher education, the average increase in the salary of a teacher with a practice of, for example, 19 years will be about CZK 24,000 gross, which is CZK 3,000 less than the average salary in the Czech Republic. In my opinion, it is sad and demotivating that, compared to other college students also paid out of public funds, their salaries are deep, for example, for doctors, lawyers, technicians, or university-educated public service workers. I consider this to be very low for a profession where a university education is necessary and which educates our children. In my opinion, the teacher hardly feeds the family for this income, so many of them have yet another job or go to work elsewhere than to our schools. The consequence of this condition is that quality teachers of languages, informatics, technical subjects, as well as mathematics, physics or chemistry are missing. My question is, Prime Minister, what are you going to do about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u63	Thank you. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u64	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, we are now talking about regional education. Fortunately, the government can directly influence the question of the level of salary in regional education. This is due to the fact that subsidies for salaries in primary schools and secondary schools are provided on a dedicated basis, i.e. directly to regions, which are then divided by funds according to the methodology approved by the Ministry of Education. Here we have a clear instrument that allows the government to improve the salaries of regional education staff in the coming years by making a decision directly from the state budget, that is, primary and secondary schools. We are well aware of what Mr Šincl said here. This means that when we look at the qualifications of employees in education and look at what the average salary is in the same qualifications in the national economy, we are lagging behind. The goal should be for our children to teach well-rewarded and well-motivated teachers. Only in this way can we really ensure an increase in quality in education. What did we do? In two years, if I take purely the last two years, we've raised tariff salaries three times in education. The government influences salaries by valorizing the salary tables that are central, which means that even here we have the instrument that we have at our disposal. And over these two years, we've raised the fare three times in education, which means that in terms of pedagogical workers, their salary has increased by more than 12 percent over three years. If I take a triple increase in the last two years, the biggest one happens on September 1st of this year. The government approved the tariff change in August, so it is valid from 1 September this year and should be taken into account in the payouts received by employees in regional education in September, with the amount of money for salaries in regional education increased by 8 percent and the tariff salary increased by 6 percent for teachers and the pay rate increased by 4 percent for other non-teaching staff in education. That means we don't forget the school workers who don't teach directly, but they help in the technical background, ensure the operation of schools, and there we also try to make salaries go up. I believe that we should continue to increase the salaries of employees in regional education, teachers, in the coming years. This year's wage increase by 8 % from 1 September should definitely not be the last, and we should prepare a similarly high salary increase within the state budget for 2018, because only if we continue a few years in a row to a significant increase in the salary of teachers, we are able to achieve an average salary of over CZK 40,000 in regional education. Next year, the average salary of a teacher in regional education will be over CZK 31,000 gross. And I would like to ensure that in the coming years we send out this clear signal that it is worth not only studying the teaching faculty, but that then it is also interesting to go to regional education, and I think it could help significantly improve the functioning of our schools, increase the interest of young people in the teaching profession, whether in elementary school or in high school. And the second point I would like to say is that it is not just tariff salaries, but it is the overall conditions for education. And here I consider it extremely important that regional education funding reform can be approved, because this reform has been called for many years. We have put forward a specific proposal and there is a chance that, finally, individual schools will not be financed purely by the number of pupils, as is the case up to now, but to be financed according to teaching, that is, by the hours, according to the disciplines they teach, that means changing the system of financing regional education, and that is what I think is the thing that if we were able to reach the end of the elections, it will also be a positive signal for future years for all who work in our regional education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u65	Thank you. The Member wishes to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u66	Prime Minister, the percentage you said here looks very nice, but then reality looks a little bit worse. I was just horrified that it was the 24,000. I appreciate the fact that there is some increase, but I can promise you here that I will not leave you alone until your promise here is fulfilled that it will be the 31,000 or 40,000 crowns for a college-educated person who teaches our children. However, you mentioned one more category in education, and these are non-teaching workers. Personally, just so you know, I figured out how much this worker's average salary is, and it's an overwhelming CZK 11,000 to CZK 12,000 gross. I think that this is really even below the threshold of so-called income poverty. I often wonder to these people that they want to work for such a wage at all. These people work, and others who receive benefits may be earning much more income than those who work in schools as non - teaching workers. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] I want to ask you: are you willing to fight in government for these people, for these cooks, economists, janitors and so on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u67	Please, Prime Minister, give me an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u68	I am aware that for many of these elementary and secondary school workers who take care of the technical operation of schools, their salaries are very often above the minimum wage. One of the instruments that the government can use to improve the remuneration for these people is the question of increasing the minimum wage. I would like to see a minimum wage increase from 1 January next year to at least CZK 11,000 gross - that is one of the things. Second thing. When I said that we raised tariff salaries three times in two years, we raised them three times for other workers in regional education. Now the increase in tariff salaries for non-educated workers and technically ensuring the operation of schools is 4 per cent from 1 September. Teachers increased their tariffs by 6 percent, while other workers increased by 4 percent. Teacher wages increased by 8 percent. We certainly don't forget them. I think it is important that we move in this direction as well. As a second instrument, we will continue to want to use minimum wage growth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u69	Thank you. At this point, I ask the next in line, and that is Mr Tomio Okamura to present his interpelation to the Prime Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u70	Dear Prime Minister, you and your government have rejected this week's proposal for our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement in the House - the SPD to negotiate a waiver of citizenship and a ban on entry into the Czech Republic for terrorists, for those who fought in the ranks of the Islamic State, and for other extremely dangerous persons. Since last year there have been reports of Czech citizens fighting in the ranks of the Islamic State. We are proposing in our SPD movement a change of Constitution and related laws in this sense. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000000. 12 Constitutions where it is necessary, in connection with terrorism, treason or cooperation with the enemy, to release the sentence "No one can be deprived of citizenship against his will."but there is also a need for an amendment to the criminal law, which should impose a penalty on the waiver of Czech citizenship for treason, terrorism and cooperation with the enemy, with a lifelong ban on entry into the territory of the Czech Republic. How does your government intend to protect Czech citizens from Muslim terrorists if you refuse to take citizenship? They are already promoting similar practice in France or Holland. We know from practice that most of the terror in Europe was the return of jihad veterans who then continued to fight in their host or mother country in Europe. And, of course, they infected other people with extremism, whether in freedom or in prison. Why are you closing your eyes to this real problem? You certainly have more accurate reports of Muslims with Czech citizenship fighting in the ranks of Islamists. Are you going to welcome them to our republic like the rest of the Islamists? And I just add that it seems to me that the government is acting, virtually. After three years in the House, I am already fully convinced that instead of always dealing with things in advance before the problem comes, you are always too late to solve everything when the European Union tells you to do it or when the problem is already real here. It's costing us huge money. After all, you confirmed to me in your response to the interpelation six months ago that you have already allocated several billion crowns only to receive and work with existing migrants in the Czech Republic. And they could have been used on our seniors.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u71	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u72	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, first of all I wish to reject the idea, virtually. information that appeared in the media, that when we compete with funds to help asylum seekers, that we are preparing for some influx of refugees into the Czech Republic. This was about ensuring integration for about 6,000 foreigners for several years. And I just remind you that they receive asylum or international protection between 700 and 1,000 people regularly in the Czech Republic each year. It's not a new phenomenon. So when we translate it, it is basically about ensuring integration for people who receive asylum in the Czech Republic every year. This may be a surprise for you, but the most asylum seekers in the Czech Republic are still coming from Ukraine. In second place are asylum seekers from Russia, then move asylum seekers e.g. Cuba. There are asylum applications from China, asylum seekers from Iraq or Syria. But they move to other places from the point of view of the table. So, really, the largest number of people that we're going to integrate in the coming years are likely to continue to be people who have gained asylum and have come from Ukraine or have come from Russia or have come from Cuba. I don't see any security issues here regarding the integration of these people in our country. So I definitely want to refuse to spread rumors that we are spending billions on a large influx of refugees into the Czech Republic. We normally take care of standard asylum seekers who come to the Czech Republic every year. And I did not notice that Mr Okamura, or anyone else five, six or ten years ago, questioned that every year we gave 700, 800 asylums or international protections in the Czech Republic. Second point. Again, I ask that the Security Information Service report not be misinterpreted. If the BIS report, which has been published, talks about some persons leaving the Czech Republic for Syria probably fighting in the ranks of the Islamic State, it is not the citizens of the Czech Republic. I do not know of any citizen of the Czech Republic who would fight in the ranks of the Islamic State. The information was mostly about people who stayed in the Czech Republic and left the Czech Republic. This does not mean that they were citizens of the Czech Republic. People who are not citizens of the Czech Republic can also reside in the Czech Republic. Of course, they are allowed to stay under the visa regime. So I do not know of any citizen of the Czech Republic who would fight in the ranks of IS. According to his report, the Security Information Service has information about citizens who resided in the territory of the Czech Republic and apparently went to Syria to fight in the ranks of IS. It's a few people. And it certainly applies to futuro that one of the important objectives of our security policy is to have control over the movement of people who would eventually want to return to Europe is the suspicion that they fought in the ranks of the IS. There must be clear control over the movement of these people and we will work intensively with our German, French, Austrian, Slovak and other partners to ensure maximum security for the people of the Czech Republic. So we certainly do not underestimate the problem of returnees to Europe from Syria or Iraq, but this problem is minimized in the Czech Republic precisely by the fact that Czech citizens do not leave to fight in the ranks of the IS. We do not know of any Czech citizen who would fight in Syria in the ranks of IS. Regarding other rules, I do not think that by restricting civil rights, civil liberties, we would prevent terrorists from attacking the territory of the Czech Republic. There's got to be another way. We need to move in such a way that we have much more information so that we have prepared, motivated security forces, that we have well-equipped secret services that have strong partnerships and have the ability to obtain relevant information. We just have to act preventively. And this action does not mean that we should completely deprive people of civil rights or restrict freedoms in the Czech Republic. There's no way the government's going this way, and it doesn't want to go. We are taking concrete, effective, timely security measures. No one needs to challenge us or the opposition in this Chamber of Deputies. The fact that we increased the budgets of the security services, the police, the military, the firefighters, that was our government's own decision. I'm glad we did it in time because we'll be better prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u73	Thank you. The Member wishes to ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u74	Prime Minister, thank you for an excellent answer - in quotation marks. Now you've shown your government's priorities. You'd rather put half a billion crowns on 6,000 migrants instead of integrating two million of our seniors who are hard to survive into a decent society. A million disabled people with low incomes. You'd better put it on the integration of foreigners! You just said your priorities. And you don't see the problem! You're also saying you don't want to restrict civil liberties. I mean, this is the only year you guys have proposed a restriction on weapons possession, legal possession of weapons. I voted against. After all, you recently suggested tightening up the assembly law here. You're doing the exact opposite, and now you're lying to the TV viewers of Czech Television! I mean, that's totally unbelievable. Furthermore, you haven't answered the question at all whether you consider alienating terrorists as a restriction on freedom, that's weird. And that you don't know they're here. They didn't even know that in Western Europe until they made a terrorist attack! So that's totally crazy! Indeed, your government doesn't solve problems until it happens when it's too late, when it costs money and lives. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you for your answer, because that's a really flaming confession of politics.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u75	Ambassador, your time is up, please don't overstep it. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u76	Thank you. I almost feel sorry for Mr Okamura's speech that we are the sixth safest country in the world. Mr. Ambassador, it's true! It may bother you, you may wish for a different outcome, but according to international comparison the Czech Republic is the sixth safest country in the world! It will remain so, Mr Okamura, through Madam President. We're gonna want to stay the sixth safest country in the world. We're acting like it. Both our security policy and our asylum policy, our migration policy is designed to remain a safe country and guarantee it to citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u77	Thank you. And with the last interview to the Prime Minister on this day, I will ask for Mr. Černoch's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u78	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, Úsvit has been criticizing for a long time the opaqueness of funding and, above all, the activities of some non-profit organizations whose activities are totally opaque and which are making censorship for state money. Yesterday, with the concept of one such organization, namely HateFree, introduced us in an interview for radio impulse by its coordinator Lukáš Houdek. He said briefly: The aim is to censor social networks, Facebook, the aim is to suppress free discussion. According to Mr Houdek, the main theme of HateFree is the moderated discussion on its Facebook pages and the registration and stickers of HateFree sites, which are 220. As he said, the budget for three years is CZK 16 million, which they receive from the government. Recently, information has also been published that Minister Dienstbier, from his position as a member of the government, tried to enforce a private company Facebook operating a social network to enable the censor paid by the government of the Czech Republic to operate within its structure. He was tasked to delete inappropriate contributions. I'm going to quote an expert on extremism who said to HateFree organizations that they support the pro-migration scene in gunfights with opponents of illegal immigration, close to the extreme left, they're radical, and they call those who disagree with them xenophobics and racists. We agree that hatred does not belong to Czech society, but on the other hand, your government supports organizations that are tasked with defaming anyone who disagrees with government policy and who does not agree with the very dangerous reception of illegal immigrants. For state money, in the order of tens of millions of crowns, which could be used much better, whether they are kindergartens, sports or housing. I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, how can you allow censorship paid out of taxpayers' money and how you will intervene against waste with such enormous means of stickering and restricting the freedom of our citizens' speech. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Your time!]] Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u79	I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u80	Thank you. I think the situation is obvious. Any interference with the freedom to disseminate information on the Internet can only be done on the basis of law. I would like to remind you that, in this Chamber of Deputies, there has been quite a broad discussion about giving the Ministry of Finance such authority for the first time in the fight against illegal gambling on the Internet, and it was this Chamber of Deputies that agreed to give the Ministry of Finance the opportunity to intervene against the operation of illegal gambling, illegal gambling on the Internet. So this, as far as I know, is the only intervention that has been carried out legally and on the basis of approved laws and will be implemented from 1 January next year when the new Lottery Act will apply. Otherwise, neither the government, nor anyone else, nor any non-governmental non-profit organisation can restrict citizens' rights to work on social networks, and they are those who run these social networks, who set the rules of the game. This means that the person who runs Facebook sets out the rules of the game under which this social network works, and this also applies to other social networks. This does not mean that it would not be possible to discuss with these operators what they have, what standards they have decided on, what rules they have decided on. Nor do I like what users can encounter on social networks, but that does not mean that this government would want to censor free free opinion discussions in any way. But there is nothing wrong with criticizing the government, but it is important that by criticizing something, you criticize someone so that you do not simultaneously interfere with their fundamental human rights and freedoms. This means that it is impossible to spread hatred that is detrimental to human rights, to the freedoms of anyone else. You have the right to say your views, critical opinions towards anyone, but it is important that you do not interfere with his personalities, the Constitution of Guaranteed Rights, and that is why there is a judicial system here to, of course, ensure that these rights are respected, even if there is a completely free and open debate. So much for margo's suspicion that maybe the government wants to censor the Internet. The only intervention was made on the basis of Parliament's decision to which this Chamber of Deputies agreed and concerns the regulation of gambling on the Internet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u81	Thank you. The Member wishes to ask an additional question. He's entitled to it, of course. I'm just pointing out that we should be talking about other members of the government by now. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u82	Thank you for the floor. There will be a very quick follow-up question. I asked how it is possible that the non-profit organization HateFree, which is shielding itself by working for the government on social networks and spreading stickers, draws CZK 16 million from the state budget. Ladies and gentlemen, 16 million crowns! That was the question: how is it possible that the government agrees with something like this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u83	The Prime Minister will respond. I ask for an answer, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u84	Any support for the non-profit sector is based on grant programmes. This means individual government institutions, government institutions publish grant schemes to which civil associations can report, and within these grant schemes they are then financed or supported by their activities. I think we know it from a national level, we know it from a regional level. And, of course, the question is what is the government's policy, what are the public activities that the government supports? I think it is important that we point out that hatred of minorities cannot be spread in society, that there is no debate in society by violating someone else's rights, and I think that it is not wrong at all if such things are pointed out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u85	Thank you, Prime Minister. And now I beg Mrs Pěnčíková to give her interpellation to the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u86	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I'm not going to explain the whole problem again, you have all the information, but it's been over a quarter of a year since I last asked you what to do with charging the Kroměříž bypass. I understand you have other work to do, of course, but I'm still asking you what will happen to the charging of the Kroměříž bypass? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u87	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, all sections of the motorway network are currently included in the time charge, except for some exceptions. These exceptions form very short sections of motorways that do not follow other motorway networks. Furthermore, these are sections which are the only access roads and, last but not least, they are so-called - we call them stretches, which are sections of motorways along which roads of the first class are led, which are not subject to time charging. Based on your request and the demands of other members or mayors of municipalities affected by excessive transport, which could be shifted to today's toll road, we are currently examining the whole situation, analyzing it to find an appropriate solution that will be conceptual, systemic and consistent with the interests of citizens and the whole Czech Republic. I can already tell you that the D1 motorway you are referring to plays an important role in our thinking and it is not excluded that, starting on 1 January, the state of the charge could be different than today. However, all the analyses are still ongoing, and if we decide to do this, it will be in a decree that determines the price of motorway stamps. I would like to say here that even for 2017, we are not counting on changing the motorway stamp and its price, and I hope that we will be able to complete our analyses in the near future and announce whether and which sections could be excluded from the charge. I was personally acquainted with the situation in Kroměříž, so I saw the whole situation. I was there, unfortunately, or thank God at the time when it wasn't peaking, so the passage through the city wasn't so bad, but I trust you and all the others who tell me that by actually - and here I have to admit that the highway runs along the former Kroměříž bypass, so basically the main road through Kroměříž leads across a single bridge and is the only access route from one bank of the Moravia River to the other. I want to assure you that a decision will be made shortly. I hope I've satisfied you with my answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u89	The honourable Member wants to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u90	Well, it's not so much about you satisfying some of your answers to me. I need to satisfy the citizens of Kroměříž, who really see the problem as very serious. I'm really not very nice to bother you here every three months by interpelling on the same subject. But you originally told me that it depends on Mr. Finance Minister Babiš. I've intersected him, too. He told me it was entirely up to you to decide that he was willing to discuss it. So basically, I've come to the conclusion that you're both very willing to discuss this, but it's still not. Now I've learned that this is a good deal, which is excellent, but I only have one question - when will the deadline be when we will know if the motorway will be removed from the fee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u91	Thank you. I beg the Minister's response. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u92	Mrs Pěnčíková through Madam President, by saying that I hope I have satisfied my response to you and to yours and to the citizens. The point is not, of course, to pat ourselves on the shoulders here, to avoid an unpleasant word, but to satisfy our citizens, and I agree with you on that. Your question. Yes, we discussed it with Mr. Babiš. Of course, it is a question of then missing investments or funds. I am convinced that we are looking for a solution that would be more in mind than the economy of our country's citizens and their comfort in the use of roads. The decree in question will go into inter-ministerial commentary proceedings within three weeks, and therefore it should be quite clear in what form it will go there. Of course, there may be some changes in inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, but there will already be the process as it runs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u93	I thank and ask another in order, that is Mr. Josef Zahradníček to present his interpelation to the Minister of the Environment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u94	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, colleagues, I wish you a pleasant afternoon. Dear Minister, it is certainly very good that the heating processes of panel and family houses, apartments and other buildings are still underway. I believe that there will also be funds in the coming years, and this will continue in the next period. However, what should not be forgotten and more controlled is the way of heating heated objects. I don't see a problem with panel houses, because they're almost 100 percent heated remotely. Worse is the situation in family houses and buildings that are heated by natural gas, in the form of various appliances for heating as well as for heating hot water with a tow into the chimney. They forget the air supply to these appliances. Owners of real estate with a desire for maximum saving of heat and finance do not realize the dangers they pose to the user. The most tragic cases in the Czech Republic are in Europe. No one checks this. When appliances do not work, the technician comes to the repair and finds that the air supply is not brought into the room and refuses to perform the repair or write the review report, because all responsibility is on it and then it is bad. That is why I ask you, Minister: Do you know this condition? And what possible steps must be taken to remedy the situation? I thank the Members for their attention and your response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u95	I thank you and ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u96	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Dear colleague, dear fellow Members, it will also be a little difficult to please here, because what you are asking is a matter which is obviously a problem, but unfortunately it is not a matter which the Ministry of the Environment can actively influence at this time. The issue of the operation of gas boilers concerns a number of legislation and these are mainly in the Ministry of the Interior's strategy with regard to fire prevention, this is precisely the need of Government Decree No. 91/2010, the regulations in the MIT, which is required by Law No. 458/2000 Coll., which is an energy law and here the obligation to maintain sampling gas equipment in accordance with technical standards. Of course, building regulations and relevant technical standards also play a role in this. The Ministry of Environment really had in the past, around 2012, within the framework of Act No. 86/2002 Coll., on air protection, gestration over the operation of small combustion sources as well as measuring the efficiency of combustion and the amount of discharges, but later this inspection was primarily focused on the introduction of emissions into the ambient air, which means that currently the valid Act 201/2012 on air protection only affects emissions into the ambient air and the Ministry of Industry does not have the possibility to interfere in any way with the optimal operation of these equipment. You mentioned actually pot subsidies. At this point, we really play the role of an entity that, through the Ministry and through the State Environmental Fund, guarantees that the boilers will meet the relevant technical standards, although, as you know, we don't actually replace older gas boilers, we exchange solid fuel boilers first and second emission classes for new boilers including gas boilers, but the installation and, of course, the installation conditions then are already subject to those other technical standards, respectively. they are in the competence of other organs. But, of course, if you wish, I'd be happy to hand this interpellation over to the responsible colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u97	I thank you and ask if there's interest... There is no interest in the supplementary question. Thank you and I will ask for a microphone from Mrs Golasowská, who will intersect the absent Minister of Education. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u98	Thank you for the floor and have a lovely afternoon, my fellow Members. I interpelise the Minister of Education on the promotion of apprenticeship education and the quality of teaching in higher education. In the last two decades, it has become a social prestige to have a university degree, and who has only graduated from the teaching field has been and is still considered inferior. And so universities spew out graduates of often incorruptible disciplines, who, although with a diploma in hand, are unplaceable in the labour market. On the other hand, we do not get qualified workers in technical professions such as turning machines, milling machines, welders, engineering and construction workers. These professions are often performed by persons who undergo short retraining, which is often negatively reflected in the quality of their work. The educational disciplines are thus still underappreciated and only being taught often carries social stigma, for which young people prefer to choose to study at university, even though they often do not have the mentality to do it. Madam Minister, I therefore ask you: Is the Ministry of Education preparing specific measures to increase the prestige of apprentice education, and if so, what? Is the Ministry of Education going to support secondary education financially, and if so, what is the increase compared to the financial support of previous years? How does the Ministry of Education cooperate with employers in connection with the lack of skilled workers' and crafts professions? And the last question: Does the Ministry of Education realise how miserable the level of quality of education in some universities is, and if so, what measures are they preparing? Thank you, probably for your written answer this time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u99	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Yes, the lady will be answered in writing. We'll proceed to the fourth interpellation. Mr Jiří Junek will interpel the present Minister of Transport Dan Ťok on the date of construction of D35 in the section Opatovice-Časy-Island. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u100	Hello. Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues. Dear Minister, I am a Member elected for the Pardubice Region, which is why I am logically interested in building the D35 backbone communication, so I have intersected you on this subject several times, etc. etc. Because I often heard how the dates were changing, when the construction of the first section in the Pardubice Region will start, that is, Opatovice-Times, Times-Island, was mentioned as half of 2016, end 2016, beginning of 2017, so in January of this year I interviewed you in writing and asked you for a timetable for the construction of this section, or the entire D35. [[16.20 hours]] Let me quote from your answer regarding the section Opatovice-Times, Times-Island: On the sections Opatovice nad Labem - Times - The island has been processed documentation for building permits and engineering activities are underway for obtaining building permits. At the same time, the property settlement takes place. Over 90 percent of the land is bought out on both buildings. In 2015, the processing of procurement documents for the selection of the contractor of the construction started. Construction is expected to start at the beginning of 2017. About a month ago, I read from public sources in the newspaper that the deadline for the opening of the mentioned section is half of 2018. More or less, this term also confirmed the Pardubice ŘSD. I want to ask you if this is really the case, that suddenly the deadline has shifted back a year and a half, where suddenly this big time loss has taken place. And if that's the case, then why is it? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u101	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u102	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members, Mr Junka. In relation to Highway 35, the latest land and material loads that will have to be dealt with in order to obtain building permits are currently being dealt with. In some cases, expropriation is carried out due to an agreement with the owner. And the figure you quoted that more than 90 percent of the land was bought out is true. At the same time there is a competition for a rescue archaeological survey, which is very extensive in this location. It is therefore de facto possible to consider the actual implementation of this archaeological survey, which must always prevent its own construction activities. Here I would just like to point out that on both sections of the D35 motorway, this means Opatovice-Times, Times-Island, so on two sections of the D11 motorway, the archaeological survey is really very extensive. For information, I would like to say that when the costs of archaeological research on these four sections are added up, for the first time, roughly 1 billion crowns exceeded 100 million crowns. This is because the archaeologists and the government justified this huge increase in the funds for archaeological research by the fact that both sites are archeologically very important. Basically, if I paraphrase a little bit what was said, every square metre of that highway would be dug up archaeologically. So really, this is the big reason that might have an impact on some displacement, but I'll be talking about it in a minute. This section, or both of these sections were just dealing with having an EIA under Law 244, that is, before joining the European Union. The good news is that both sections have gone as one into the nine sections where the EIA will be verified based on a verification opinion. The opinion of the EIA is expected to be issued in this special regime of section 23a of the EIA Act following its recently adopted amendment. We expect his release during the autumn so that we can apply for a building permit in the first quarter of 2017. At the same time, until the end of September of this year we will open a separate tender for the contractor, in the form of a narrower procedure. I would like to point out that the government has already approved the justification for the public contract for both sections and is about to be published. It's gonna be a two-way street. In the first round, only the qualification of unlimited number of suppliers will be assessed and the contractor himself will be selected in the second round, so we should probably have the contractor selected before the construction permit is effective. As for the next steps after the end of the EIA, I assume that it will - we will push it, and the money will also be paid so large that it will be done as soon as possible, so I believe that the physical handover, or I have written here from the office, that the physical handover of the construction site to the contractor should take place by autumn 2017. So 2017 should be archaeological survey and it should start with construction activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u103	Thank you, Minister. The Member has an additional question and does not have to report to it. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u104	Well, I don't know if I can be happy with the answer, because I actually learned at this point that we're actually doing very well, because by saying that archeology can count on starting the building, so we're actually ahead of schedule. Well, that's amazing news. It will start building 2018, but we are actually ahead of schedule. Don't be mad at me, we just read from the newspaper: "We'll start construction in mid-2018." Now you're telling me that archeology is actually part of the start of the building. I don't think so. And besides, when you wrote me that written reply to the interpelation, it was February 2016 and at that time you didn't know about the archaeology. You know how hard that archaeology was on D11, hard work, etc. That's what you had to count on by then. Therefore, you could not write to me in the reply that construction will start at the beginning of the year 2017. It doesn't. And another thing - just a comment on the price. You said there was a huge volume in the archaeology. So I just want to point out that a large part of the price is for the hideout, which must also lead to this, etc. So we don't throw everything back on the archaeologists, how they're costing us constructions, and they're stretching the building for us. I'd keep an eye on that, too, and I'd like to point that out. But I'm saying there's been a little miracle that we're actually better off than we ever were.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u105	Please, Minister, your follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u106	Dear Member, if I continue your irony a little bit, you're right, because the hideout would have to be done, even if the archeology were there or not. So if I'm going to do a rock cover and upper layers of soil for archaeological exploration, I'm actually starting construction because I'd have to do this job in normal construction work. That it will then be interrupted, there will be an archaeological survey and after its completion will continue the construction activity, so it just happens on all construction sites. I did not want to criticize the vastness of archaeological research or research with my speech or explanation. I just wanted to point out that we're a little stunned. Because if I take that archeological survey of, for example, the D8 motorway on the route that is being completed for a long time, it cost 30 million, and here it stands on this section, I have a feeling, 500 million, so the difference is really big. And it is in accordance with the law and what is in the legal order of the Czech Republic. We're bound to stick to it, and we just have to stick to it and we will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u107	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Marta Semelová, who will intersect the absent finance minister Andrej Babiš, on the privatisation of CEZ's apartments, will deliver the fifth interview. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u108	Thank you. Dear absent minister, I am addressing you in a critical situation of about 3,000 people living in apartments in Prague's Písnice and others in Vršovice. They're in danger of an accelerated housing privatisation. It was already in 2003, when they quickly sold their cottages, their cars, took out disadvantageous loans just to have, well, and then the company that owns these flats, i.e. ČEZ, canceled privatisation. ČEZ, to whom, as I have already said, the apartments belong, and who scorns the care of a proper economy without fulfilling this password in practice when investing in the apartments, has set up such conditions of privatisation for which tenants cannot reach, and, of course, they are afraid of what will happen next. If the developer gets it, he's gonna put in a high rent or sell it to another third party. There's been a petition, there's a demonstration. I'm pointing out that these are corporate apartments. Former and current employees invested in apartments - or former corporate apartments. They pay high rent. The apartments were actually paid long ago, and they were also promised that they would be transferred free of charge after processing a certain number of years. It came in 1989, so it didn't happen again. However, they were transferred free of charge to ČEZ. [[16.30 hours]] I would like to draw attention to the fact that ČEZ's announced competition for the sale of a song house contains a fundamental error. First of all, CEZ entrusted two companies with the sale of flats, land and buildings of civil equipment to those offering the highest price in two competitions, the sale of the housing fund, the sale of the shopping centre. Once it's Naxos, once it's Knight Frank, neither of which can be identified by the names of specific owners, their shares in the name are not publicly negotiable. There is therefore a suspicion that it is not the inability of officials, but a fraud designed to deceive the state, ministries, supervisory authorities and tenants. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] I want to know what you're gonna do about it. At the same time, I wanted to give you the conditions that My Song initiative sets. Unfortunately, you're not here, but I've already handed them over to Prime Minister Sobotek, with whom I'm sure you're communicating warmly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u109	Thank you, Madame. Mr Kučera, in his sixth interview, will interpel the present Minister Jiří Dienstbier on the electoral right of immigrants. Sorry, Minister Dan Ťok on the toll system and the budget revenue, I'm sorry. [[A note from around here.]] Also present, yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u110	Thank you for your word. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister. The Ministry of Transport signed a contract with the previous toll system operator at the end of August this year. The original contract with Kapsch expires at the end of this year, and the Ministry of Transport failed to find the continuation of operation in a proper selection procedure. In three years, the Ministry of Transport failed to prepare open and technologically neutral competition for further toll management of the system. We consider the conclusion of an amendment to the operation of the toll system as a failure of the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok and the exposure of the Czech Republic to the risk of court and arbitration. My question is up to you, Minister, how do you justify a state budget outage in the coming years compared to the revenues offered by the competitive system?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u111	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if I am to be completely honest, I have not fully understood what to answer. Because by closing the amendments in accordance with the Government's decision and in line with all the materials that have been approved, which actually started, or by taking the next step to get to the open competition, we have just secured this selection. Not that we put him in danger. That means, maybe it would be good if we talked about what happened, not about what could happen, and about what anyone thinks. I feel that it often happens to us that we condemn a person before the relevant authority deals with matters. I'd just like to correct my favorite mistakes, and some of them fell here during the speech. The Ministry of Transport has not been in a position to be unable or not to enter an open tender. It just couldn't write it. It was not possible to write it because of how the contract was signed in 2006 and 2007. And I don't want to go back to who signed that contract and under what circumstances, maybe why he signed it. However, the contract did not count on its own conclusion. I've explained this here and here on this soil several times. And there are some fundamental things missing in that contract that simply didn't allow us to adequately and fairly write the declared technologically neutral myth. That the signature of the amendment, the extension and the resolution of all the circumstances that didn't actually allow us to sign the myth, the whole thing allows us today, we have an end to today's competition to collect toll advisors. Now we're finishing the debate on the charging scale. That means all the steps that this myth can openly compete are set up. I am convinced that the myth will continue to be chosen and that there is no reason to talk about a blackout, let alone there is no reason at all for us to scare the public and anyone else of the threat of arbitration and courts, because there is simply nothing to be sued about. If you all know it's gonna turn out differently, please try to prove it on facts, not conjecture. I believe that the Ministry's procedure was in line with the Government's decision and was in line with the interests of the citizens of this country. There's one more thing I'd like to add. You know, the fact that a private company that doesn't have a legal record, I would say, support, or there's no legal support to conduct any proceedings with it, threatens and says that the myth will stop the citizens of this republic, that there will be a blackout, so I get it. They're just trying to get any means to do business. Of course, with these weapons of haras and public officials, I don't really understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u113	Thank you. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u114	Thank you for the floor. I would perhaps remind Minister Took that two former mayors of the city of Prague were sentenced in an almost identical case today. I think they argued exactly as you argued. So study the case because it's one of the possible and very likely variations. I'll specify my question. Competitive company offers more revenue. By directing your contract to Kapsch, you have deprived the Czech Republic of these revenues. Maybe, maybe not. That's what we'd learn in the tender. My question is, then, how do you justify the fact that the larger revenues offered by competitors will not have a budget?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u115	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u116	Dear Member, very simply. The fact that someone writes in the paper that he's capable of doing something doesn't make an offer, that's what he says. We had no official offer or official reason for any dealings with this company. And nota bene when I think about it, one of the letters in which they say what they can do offered a much smaller discount than we did in the negotiations. So I don't know what I have to explain. It is the same that a third person can come here and say that the Czech Republic will do it for free, then you can confront me with why we didn't take it from him when he can do it for free.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u117	So, that was the answer to the sixth interpellation. Mr Petr Bendl, who is really going to interpel Mr Jiří Dienstbier on the electoral right of immigrants, will give the seventh interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u118	Thank you, Mr President, for the introduction. Dear Minister, it was not so long ago that at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies we rejected the Government's bill imposing an obligation on municipalities to set up a so-called Commission for National Minorities in their bodies. And during the debate on the Public Administration Committee, we also discussed the desire to enforce the so-called electoral right of foreigners in the Czech Republic. I think you must have heard a clear response across the political spectrum that we don't want anything like that. However, we are now learning again - I will say that I am bombarded by e-mails from all over the Czech Republic, what it means that the government wants to push through, and you as the minister responsible for this, the electoral right of foreigners in the Czech Republic, in a situation that is not too pink in Europe. So I want to ask you what the truth is about whether you really support and promote such an institute and what leads you to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u119	Thank you. Please, Minister, your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u120	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, on the question raised here, I must state that I have made a comment on the draft law on the residence of foreigners, the purpose of which was for foreigners with permanent residence in the Czech Republic to vote in municipal elections. Every stranger who comes to the Czech Republic does not automatically have a permanent stay. The condition for granting a permanent stay is that a foreigner usually lives in the Czech Republic for at least five years. Until then, some types of stay are not yet counted at all or not entirely. It is also a condition that, in addition to the legal requirements, the Ministry of the Interior will assess this request, including possible security aspects, and decide that such a person will be granted a permanent residence permit, namely that he may in principle remain in the Czech Republic forever. This does not really concern any foreigner, immigrant, asylumant, refugee, or how we will look at these categories. The point of this comment is that for people who have, in principle, a permanent residence permit, it is good to do whatever it takes to be fully integrated into society. If they live on the territory of the municipality for more than five years, they are often active there in various public activities, so their involvement can make a significant contribution to their integration. It is nothing original at all, because a number of European countries have similar legislation. I would mention, in particular, Slovakia, which has adopted a completely identical amendment to the electoral right of permanent residents before joining the European Union. I think it was 2002, in any case before 2004. Since then, foreigners have been involved with the permanent stay of the elections and there is no drama in Slovakia, there is no tension there, no protests. The only thing to blame is that it would be good for foreigners to participate in more elections. However, some foreigners use this right without any difficulty or tension, as I said. So my comment on the bill submitted from the Ministry of the Interior workshop concerned this category of foreigners with permanent residence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u121	Thank you. The additional question of the Member. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u122	I know that the permanent residence institute is basically a record thing. And I say for myself that I believe that the right to vote is to have a citizen of the Czech Republic, a citizen of citizenship, who pays taxes here, and not a person who is not a citizen of the Czech Republic. We probably disagree on this, and thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u123	Please, Minister. Your follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u124	Of course, it's your opinion. However, I would like to point out that this is not the case in the Czech Republic anymore. Because according to the treaties which constitute the primary law of the European Union in municipal elections, as well as in elections to the European Parliament, every foreigner in a European country has the right to vote if we consider this group of people to be foreigners at all. However, the electoral right of purely citizens is already broken here. And I have argued here in relation to people with permanent residence precisely to their better integration in the territory of the Czech Republic, because I think that if we decide to allow a foreigner to stay here permanently, it is our own interest not to be pushed away on the edge, but to be fully integrated into society. It's on a community level. For the sake of completeness, I would add that the right of participation in municipal elections is currently granted to all long-term residents in these countries in the European Union: Ireland, Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands, Hungary, Finland, Estonia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Luxembourg, Latvia and Belgium. So it's a fairly common adjustment, and as I was saying, it's about the integration of foreigners that we've decided to grant them a permanent residence right. And it's not just a record thing. It is the decision of the Ministry of Interior on the basis of relatively hard-set conditions in the Act on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u125	Thank you, Minister. Mr Radim Holeček, Mr. Radim Holeček, will give another interview and will intersect the absent finance minister Andrej Babiš on the EET and exceptions. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u126	Dear absent minister, a week ago, I returned with children from Croatia, where I went to test EET for myself, among other things. I had lunch twice during the stay of the Chevacci. Once in a stone restaurant, once in a booth. Based on the printed paragona associated with the proper transmission of the information to the headquarters, I know that I paid 55 kun for these chevaps at the restaurant, while 45 kun at the stand. VAT for the first lunch was 7.15 kuna, for the cheaper stand 5,85 kuna. The taste of the food from the booth was quite comparable to that from the restaurant. I see stand sales as an integral part of catering services. Don't you, Minister? Why did you move the EET for refreshment stands until March 2018? How do you interpret that stall sales are not restaurant services, but retail? I wonder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u127	I thank the honourable Member and I very much wish him to know. Mr Vít Kaňkovský, who will intersect the absent minister of health Svatopluk Němeček in the case of Křižanov, will give the ninth interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u128	Mr President, Mr Minister, dear colleagues, fellow Members. At the end of April this year, one of the largest meth labs in the Czech Republic was discovered on the territory of the town of Křižanov in the region of Vysočina. A large number of methamphetamine and other toxic substances have been confiscated. An enormous contamination of the building itself, surrounding land and, in particular, water resources with significant risks to local residents, including children, was already noted during the intervention itself. The leadership of Křižanov immediately approached the representatives of the Region Highlands with a request for a crisis situation, which the regional authorities rejected. The environmental protection authorities and public health authorities have also been asked to cooperate in eliminating the consequences of this dangerous condition. In the first stage, it was mainly a toxicological analysis of water resources, soil and an assessment of health risks for the population. Unfortunately, neither the regional sanitation station nor the later contacted department of the main health officer helped the citizens of Křižanov. This has resulted in a situation where some citizens at their own expense have had laboratory blood tests done and water resources and soil analyses. Suspected of serious contamination by toxic substances has been confirmed. Unfortunately, this has not even led the competent authorities into action. That is why the citizens of Křižanov continue to be exposed to toxic substances, although they no longer use their own water resources. And so Křižanov Křižanov to fear for health consequences, especially in children. The residents are desperate, considering legal action. How do you find 40 million on bailouts when all the authorities who have addressed claim they can't do anything? Dear Minister, the positions of the public health authorities on this case are incomprehensible to the ordinary citizen and to me as a doctor. What position will the Ministry of Health take on this highly dangerous situation? Thank you at least for your written reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u129	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Antonín Seďa, who will intersect the absent defense minister Martin Stropnický on the matter of continuous deployment, will give the tenth interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u130	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, a friend of a soldier turned to me and complained about the abuse of Section 31b of Act No. 221/1999 Coll., on professional soldiers, which is a continuous deployment in the territory of the Czech Republic. According to correspondence, she also referred to you, Minister, and to the oversight and control section of the Department of Inspectorate of the Minister. The latter partially granted legitimate objections to the fairness of the statutory adjustment of the remuneration for work in this scheme and a amendment to the current legislation was proposed. However, the problem which, in this particular case, concerns a member or members of the military police protection service remains. This makes it possible to abuse the Institute of Continuous Military Service due to the incompleteness of military units, physical and psychological overload of soldiers from the profession. Although I admit that we would have to judge every particular case. [[16.50 hours]] Dear Minister, I know that an amendment to the Occupational Soldiers Act is being prepared. Therefore, I ask whether this continuous military deployment will be better specified, because this is not described in the Armed Forces Act, which refers to the definition. The inclusion of a soldier in this regime is possible under two conditions, if the interest of the service so requires, taking into account the specific nature of the military task pursuant to § 14 para. 1 of Law No. 219/1999 Coll. and, at the same time, this objective cannot be achieved without inclusion in the abovementioned scheme. And one more thing. Despite understanding the specifics of some activities, I think it is unfair for the wording of the paragraph to give such a great deal of room for arbitrary use by the commanders and also for discrimination between soldiers in the same rank. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u131	Thank you, honourable Member. He'll be answered in writing. Mrs Markéta Adamová, who will interpel the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec, will address the eleventh interview in the matter of receiving criminal notifications. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u132	Dear Minister, lately I have often met people who deal with the issue of non-payment of a court-appointed maintenance, whether they are lawyers, organizations that try to help their clients in this situation of life, or parents, mostly women, mothers. Mommy tells me stories that often have a very similar scenario. An ex-husband or friend does not pay maintenance in the long run when he sends a symbolic amount every three or four months. Officially, he doesn't work, he has property written on someone else, and the executors are short on him. Mothers often find themselves in a situation where they have no choice but to file criminal charges. Many statements have one more thing in common, and this is often referred to as the unwillingness of policemen. Policemen should be 100% helpful to parents in this difficult situation of life. Instead, a number of them discourage the filing of criminal charges. For example, they mistakenly inform that it is not possible to file a criminal complaint against alimony payer, as he has shown an effort to send a symbolic sum every once in a while. There is nothing in Article 196 or 197 of the Penal Code about making an effort. The only option is so-called. effective regret, i.e. repayment of the amount due prior to the judgment. In some specific cases that I had the opportunity to get acquainted with, police officers were extremely rude, and during the time of the criminal complaint, there were comments from police officers: Didn't you know who you were having a child with? You should have gotten a millionaire to feed you. - That's a real case. Admit that such words are at least beyond decent conduct. I don't want to criticize the procedure of all police officers. I know a lot of them do their jobs carefully and conscientiously. However, some colleagues also spoil their reputation. Dear Minister, I ask you to make amends in this matter. You are thinking in this context, for example. on compulsory training of police officers not only in legal matters related to the neglect of compulsory nutrition, but also for example. on matters of relationship and family policy? Training should clarify the interpretation of those provisions to police officers so that it is actually used to protect neglected children. [[Time warning]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u133	I thank the Member, she will be answered in writing. Mr Josef Nekl will interpel the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec at the 12th interpellation to call the IUCN to the Šumava National Park. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u134	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, a few days ago, the public was informed of the position of the World Congress of the International Union of Nature Conservation, which calls on the Ministry of Environment of the Czech Republic to remedy the care of the National Park of Šumava. From this it is clear that the issue of the Šumava National Park is particularly important not only for the inhabitants of the South Bohemia and Pilsen Region, university experts and environmental organisations, but also for organisations bringing together states and environmental organisations international. Therefore, Minister, I have the following questions for you: Is the Czech Republic or any of the environmental organizations a member of this association? How has information about the current state and prospects of further development of the Šumava National Park been submitted to members of the International Union of Nature Conservation? What are the commitments from the call for the Czech Republic, and how will the Ministry of Environment respond to the call? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u135	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u136	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleague, colleagues, especially the Czech Republic has been a member of the IUCN International Nature Conservation Organisation since 2000 by decision of the Government. The Czech Republic is represented by the Ministry of Environment. In addition, in IUCN there are, for example, the Agency for Nature and Landscape Conservation, the Union of Czech and Slovak Zoos and other entities, from non-governmental organizations the Czech Association of Conservationists is needed there. The information - and that's why we were surprised, although I have to say quite frankly, not quite, the decision, virtually. the declaration of IUCN... In May of this year there was a meeting, even a meeting of the World Commission for Protected Territories in the Czech Republic, and on this occasion there was a meeting with the director of the National Park of Sumava and the chair of the Supreme Scientific Authority of IUCN for Protected Territories, where IUCN was informed of the current approach to the care of the National Park of Šumava. The representatives of the Scientific Authority of IUCN have fully identified the presented approach and there has been no debate about any further or immediate expansion of the non-stressing territory at all. The relevant recommendation of the IUCN Congress, which was proposed very probably by the Duha Movement and probably by the Czech Union of Conservationists, was approved without debate in the electronic vote together with more than 90 other recommendations. For the record, the vote by the governments was that there were 60 countries against 1, 95 abstained, and the vote by the NGOs was 411 against 20, and 256 abstained. I stress that this was a non-negotiable negotiation and, in principle, it is taking place by electronic vote. What commitments and challenges arise for the Czech Republic, how will the Ministry of Environment respond to the challenge? The Ministry of the Environment has taken note of the recommendations, as we have finally published in the press release, but we take it as a non-binding recommendation, and this is actually definitely the IUCN declaration, and there are indeed dozens, if not hundreds, of them, to take it as an IUCN opinion. We believe that the amendment to Law 114, which is currently, as you know, in this House, has certain elements of stability in terms of moratorium on changes, without interference. And I have repeated it several times in these past days and hours, and I repeat it here too, that it is not acceptable for me personally to talk about the extent of the interference in Sumava, 50 per cent by 2030. We are clearly saying that this is a horizon that will definitely be after 2030, and that our followers should decide on this after the fifteen years of the moratorium, depending on how nature will cope with existing non-stressing territories. In general, I would say that I think that politicians and non-profit organizations should not be talking about such things as the expansion of impact-free zones, and that experts should be talking about it and we should not order nature to behave. So this is our position on the IUCN recommendation. Again, we take note of it, but it does not change anything about our next procedure in terms of the key legal standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u137	Thank you, Minister. The Member does not have an additional question. Mr Martin Novotný withdraws the 13th interview. Let's move on to the 14th interpellation. Mrs Gabriela Pecková will interpel the present Minister of Health, Svatopluk Němeček, on the matter of the interference of the special field of geriatrics.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u138	Good afternoon, Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I graduated as a pediatrician, but rheumatology has significantly shifted the age of my patients to the sénia. I am therefore very concerned about the changes that are about to be made in the education of doctors in both of these fields. The child is not a reduced adult and the disease is different and has a different prognosis and is treated differently. It is the same for older to very old patients, where even very serious diseases can be overlooked e.g. because of a different perception of pain, etc. In addition, functional and social problems usually approach their own diagnosis. [[17,00 hours]] The extension of life expectancy leads to dramatic changes in the demographic structure of the Czech population and to a permanent increase in the number of old people. The emergence of a separate field of geriatrics in 1983 responded to these changes and its main objective was and is to improve health care for patients of higher and highest age groups, to improve both health status and functional fitness and to improve the quality of life in old age. In order to meet this objective, it is necessary to develop the education of all workers in this field so that both bed and outpatient geriatrics can be occupied by specialists. I therefore consider the originally planned abolition of geriatrics as a basic sector to be a step that would not only significantly aggravate the health care of elderly people, but would eventually have economic effects, because more seniors would then have to be placed in health or social facilities or depended on the assistance of another person or state. Minister, I therefore ask whether you are going to support the comprehensive amendment of the Health Committee, which preserves geriatrics as a fundamental field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u139	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u140	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to answer, through the President, the question that was put to me at the end of the speech, whether the Ministry is going to support a comprehensive amendment. Yes, the Ministry yesterday supported the comprehensive amendment tabled on the Health Committee, which was adopted, or geriatrics should move from the superstructure disciplines to the specialization fields.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u141	I thank the Minister for his clear, complete answer, which we haven't had in a long time. Mr Janulík, who will also intersect the Minister of Health on the purchase of instruments in IKEM, will give another interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u142	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, I would like to ask you to examine and explain several purchases of expensive imaging equipment in IKEM Prague this year. I found from open sources that it is happening through the Brno company Medifin, which is primarily declared as a provider of financial resources, for such purchases ensures optimal financial solutions etc., event. advice, but not already such supplies. It is in this light that its deliveries appear e.g. Angiograph Artis Q for devices, and even upgrade of Siemens nuclear resonance this year for nearly 55 million crowns as at least unexpected. [[Nesroz.]] The interesting thing is that other directly managed organizations, namely Pilsen and Hradec Králové Faculty Hospital, can compete for nearly five million cheaper devices, which will be found from open sources. Here I will not forgive the comment about the benefits of the register of contracts that we have been able to enforce together. However, IKEM can set up a competition by offering a single offer, or a single offer by Medifin, so it makes it reasonable to suspect that the competition is tailor-made and is worth five million more than other hospitals, i.e. in general, it stinks of the practices of the past decades. That is why I recommend your attention, because the fight against wasting money in the health sector is our common interest and it seems that we are not always doing so. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u143	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u144	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for this initiative, and we will examine the situation. Of course, directly managed hospitals themselves buy equipment, they must meet all the requirements of the Public Procurement Act, first of all. Secondly, I just have to remind you that not always the same type of device also means exactly the same configuration, so sometimes it is actually necessary to study quite in detail what hospital really asks in what configuration. Three. I have studied the list of instruments from the company that the Member states, in total, were purchases of three instruments, respectively. four, because there were two echocardiographers, and really in two cases there was only one offer, which, of course, is not optimal. So I will address the situation, study it, and then familiarise the Member with the result and thank you for the initiative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u145	Thank you. Another Member feels satisfied. Minister, you're a star today. Mr. Jiří Koubek will intersect Mr. Finance Minister Andrej Babiš in the 16th interpelation on the sale of the songhouse. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u146	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear absent Minister of Finance, I'm sorry you're not here, you probably don't care about citizens' concerns, but believe me, the citizens of the Sandstone housing estate are very concerned. CEZ has decided to sell 750 flats in which it lives, and it is a sale that is already repeated. In 2003, CEZ also decided to sell this housing fund, but directly to tenants, respectively. the cooperatives that these tenants established at the direction of ČEZ. However, ČEZ withdrew its offer about two weeks before the contract was signed. This year CEZ decided to sell the apartments again, but this time it bypassed the tenants and through Naxos responsible without a tender announced a tender for the purchase of all apartments plus a public area of more than seven hectares. According to open sources, which I would like to hand over, but you are not here, in past cases, when CEZ sold apartments to another entity, ČEZ represented the legal office of the former dean of the Pilsen Law Faculty, Mr. Milan Kindl, who was also a processor of an assessment recommending the sale of flats to a private company. Mr Ondřej David, Kindlův partner and colleague of Pilsen's rights, was in charge of the proceedings and the contracts. The paper said, and the open ones say that the owner of the winning company in previous sales was a man who was close to the law office of the ex-dean of Pilsen rights. It might seem that the circle has closed. Mr. Ondřej David also deals with the current sale for ČEZ in negotiations with the Prague-Libuš district and the citizens' initiative Moje Písnice. Is that just a coincidence? Or did the lawyers around Mr Kindl's ex-dean of Pilsen's rights prepare a tailor-made sale of the estate to a pre-selected candidate? You, Minister, are constantly complaining that traditional democratic parties have done everything wrong, and today, when you exercise shareholder rights on behalf of the Ministry of Finance in CEZ, do you not mind this connection with the people around ex-dean Milan Kindl? What are the citizens supposed to think? Who's better off, Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u147	I thank the honourable Member, who will be answered in writing. Mr. Jiří Valenta, at the 17th session, will interpel the Minister of Culture Daniel Hermann on the matter of landsmanšaft. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u148	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, you have recently strongly relied on Babiš's coalition colleague regarding his, say, insensitive statement made in connection with the Romani camp in Lety. Okay. But then how do you explain to the public that you were historically the first Czech minister to attend the summit of the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft, specifically in Nuremberg? In my opinion, even thanks to such irresponsible initiatives, Landsmanšaft has already taken an unobtrusive root in Prague in 2003 and has started to move its activities more and more often to our territory. His next reunion will be tomorrow in Plzeň. But I'm sure as Chairman Ackermann-Gemeinde, one of the three main elements of landmanshaft, you know. Personally, I am not opposed to the Czech-German reconciliation. After all, a large part of my family has lived in Germany, and even since the end of the war. Sudetendeutsche Landsmannschaft, however, is, in my view, a revanšist organization which is secretly seeking to recover legitimately confiscated property. Is that what you really want as Czech Minister of Culture? Helping to abolish Benešův's decrees, rewrite the results of World War II, endanger existing property conditions in the Czech Republic and, last but not least, expose the survivors of the victims of the Nazi rampage of frustration and injustice? I note that 90 percent of the Sudeten Němec were members of Henleinův's Sudetendeutsche Partai, which later dissolved in NSDAP, and many supported Nazism very actively. Minister, don't you also think that your support is more evil for our country than the inappropriate Babišův soup about the Romani camp in Lety? Shouldn't you rather defend the interests of the Czech Republic? And one last question. Can your confederates from Sudeten in Pilsen look forward to seeing you this weekend? Thinking again as a representative of the Czech government? Thank you for your attention. For the answer. Sorry. For attention, too, naturally.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u149	So apparently the minister was paying attention, and I'm sure he'll answer your question. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u150	Mr President, fellow Members, honourable Member through Mr President, thank you for your question. I was very pleased that this morning, when the Prime Minister responded to Mr Grebeníček's interpellation with regard to our integration into the North European Alliance, he said very well that simply the angles of the Communist Party's view and the angles of the democratic political parties and democratic politicians are opposite and incompatible. You here, Mr President, have basically demonstrated what communist ideology has been preaching all along. Finally, the Communists showed how they can change their positions very quickly. I will mention only the Ribbentrop-Molotov pact of 23 August 1939, when the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Soviet Union and the Foreign Minister of the Great German Empire signed a pact of non-aggression and cooperation, which led to the division of Europe, and when the armies of the Communist Soviet Union only 14 days after the occupation of Poland by Nazi Germany invaded Poland and attacked this bleeding country from the east. I will only recall that the Communist Soviet Union attacked the countries of Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania in 1940. That is what Europe was supposed to look like according to communist ideology. So it is very curious that you are here to think that I am not defending the interests of the Czech Republic enough. It is precisely because I defend them and defend them against the views which divided Europe with an iron curtain, on whose account there are thousands of deaths, honourable Member through Mr President, that is why I visited the meeting of the Sudeten German compatriotic association. I have to fix you. It's not a revanshistic organization. I do not know to what extent you are informed about the structure of this association, but it is a sort of umbrella organization of various compatriotic associations that come from Bohemia, Moravia and Silesia, where there have been many, several million, citizens of German language for several long centuries. Yes, I agree with you that much of the Sudeten German population has succumbed to Nazi ideology. But it was before World War II, it was at a time when they had no experience with Nazism, which I absolutely do not condone. But I can only remind you that only on the night of March 15, 1939, when the Nazi troops ambushed the rest left of Bohemia and Moravia, about 20,000 anti-fascists in Prague, only in Prague, were arrested and dragged to concentration camps. Among the Němec, including the Němec from Bohemia, Moravia and Silesia, there were a number of those who actually courageously opposed Nazism. I can name some primarily social democratic policies - Wenzel Jaksch, Ludvík Čech and others. That means you can't generalize. The principle of collective guilt cannot be applied. And that's the core of my approach. There is simply no equality between political and ethnicity. No one was born to a Nazi. And as much as you've taken the liberty of mentioning your family's history here, I'll do the same. I come from a family that carried Nazi atrocities on its body as well as chauvinist hatred after World War II and communist atrocities after the so-called victorious February 1948. Just because I basically drank with breast milk what meant racial, class and any other, religious hatred, I have been trying to make a real reconciliation and friendship since I was young, since I was able to do it. You also mentioned my presidency in the Ackermann-Gemainde association, which is the Czech sister organization of the German Christian-democratic Ackermann-Gemainde. Yes. This organization was founded in 1947, the oldest of those compatriotic organizations, and immediately renounced any ideas of revanchism, hostility and anger. It is an organization that for decades has sought genuine friendship and reconciliation. And within the Sudeten German compatriotic association, there are many such organizations. Socially democratic Seliger community or the Adalbert Stifter Foundation and other cultural regional organizations. This means that if there is an organization that I could actually describe as a revanšist under the roof of the Sudeten German compatriotic association, it is Witikobund, it is indeed an organization that claims to revise the results of World War II but is in complete isolation. [[Time warning]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u151	Please, Mr. Ambassador, your follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u152	Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, the historic tour... most of what you've outlined here, I know, I know. It's like reading Wikipedia. But my point is to make it clear now that you are already representing to some extent the Czech sister organization of landsmanshaft, to make it clear that as a representative of the Czech government, you are opposed to breaking Benešův's decrees and that you are also opposed to moving some property back to the side of the Sudeten Němec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u153	Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry, you have an additional question. Please ask the Minister whatever you want, but don't train him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u154	Well, I had the training a while ago, so I hope that you, Mr President, will have the same standard for both the Minister and me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u155	Yes, I'm sure. He answered you. You're supposed to be asking a question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u156	So I'll ask. Minister, you haven't answered a number of my questions, you've just given me a historic tour, so I'll at least ask you one. [[- Please.]] Are you clear in front of the Czech public against breaking Benešův's decrees? And secondly, will you come tomorrow to welcome your trust in Pilsen as a representative of the Czech government?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u157	Thank you. Please, Minister, your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u158	Thank you, Mr President. I am not coming to Plzeň tomorrow because we have a meeting of the Chamber of Deputies which I will attend, and in the afternoon I attend a presentation of a book in Jáchymov. On Saturday I am in Rome, where we pass the statue of svatý Francis to Pope František. Anežka Přemyslovna. With regard to Benešův's decrees, the so-called Benešův Decrees, the decrees of the President of the Republic, which are part of our legal order, they have been identified as extinct, they can be understood in the context of the time. I believe that certain things can be understood in the context of postwar development. However, the main idea - the idea of collective guilt on the basis of ethnic principle - is simply unacceptable. I repeat this. And if it's contained in Benešův's decrees, it doesn't change the fact that I find it completely unacceptable. And punishing anyone for being born a member of a nation is unacceptable. Unlike, for example, members of the Communist Party who were not born communists, but had to join the Communist Party, so people were born žid, Čech, Němec, Vietnamec, and I don't think that says anything about the quality of their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u159	I thank the Minister for his reply. Mr. Ludvík Hovorka, who will interpel the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček, on the register of contracts, will give an 18th interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u160	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, the Ministry of Health has probably published the final version of the list of contractual types and publication under the Act on the Register of Contracts last week in the context of the fight for transparency. Everything is available on the website of the Ministry of Health www.mzcr.cz/document/from-cervence-2016-plati-novy-zakon-o-registru-contract. This includes, for example, a recommendation for a bonus contract, sensitive arrangements - the amount of bonus / bonus number mechanisms, or discount level and calculation mechanism, payment terms. [[is]] Recommendation of the Ministry of Health: "The obligation of the parties to keep confidential the facts which are the trade secrets of the parties, with the fact that the holder considers that the holder is a business secret within the meaning of Section 504 of the Civil Code, in particular any information on the mechanism for calculating the bonus, discounts and payment terms'. Reason: "Access to that information may have a significant impact on the economic results and market position of the members of the group of holders in other countries of the European Union. In the context of price references and economic principles of the pricing of medicinal products in the European Union, the maintenance of the availability and price of the medicinal product for the provision of care in the Czech Republic is a condition for maintaining the availability and price of the medicinal product for the provision of care in the Czech Republic.' In other words, if the hospital receives bonuses, returns money for the medicines taken, it will publish a purchase contract, even on the basis of a public contract, but then in the subsequent bonus agreement it is to conceal how much the company returns, how much the drug actually costs. [[17.20 hours]] The same is true in the framework contract for the supply of medicinal products. The amount of bonuses shall not be disclosed. For example, in the donation agreement there is a sensitive arrangement of the amount of the donation, the purpose of the donation, the payment terms. The commitment of the Parties to keep confidential the facts which are the trade secrets of the Parties, considering that the company is a business secret and so on. [[Time warning]] Dear Minister, why is the Ministry under your command doing this and following the instructions of whom? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u161	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u162	Mr President, honourable Members, I would first of all like to assure you that the Ministry of Health does not give any instructions on how to circumvent the law governing the register of contracts. On the contrary, the Ministry of Health urges compliance with the applicable legislation. Following the adoption of the law governing the register of contracts, the Ministry received a number of suggestions and questions about the application of that law in a specific environment of health care. A meeting was negotiated to address this issue, which was attended by representatives of the Association of Innovative Pharmaceutical Industry, the Czech Association of Pharmaceutical Companies, the Association of Czech and Moravian Hospitals, the Association of Hospitals of the Czech Republic, representatives of health insurance companies and others. In the course of the hearing, the various contractual types of contracts entered into were discussed in detail, which are subject to the obligation of publication under the Act on the Register of Contracts and their specifics within the health environment. The results of the hearing were then published as an entry on the Ministry's website. However, the published document, including the conclusions set out therein, does not specify any procedures, even in the case of bonuses, that they should be kept secret. There is talk of respect for business secrets, specifically in relation to the calculation mechanism, not the amount of the bonus. Such an intention follows, inter alia, § 3 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) the Act on the Register of Contracts, which states that the obligation to publish through the Register of Contracts does not apply to the calculation. The amount of bonus should be published, which the material also says. It should be stressed that this is not a binding interpretation of the law, let alone a Ministry's order, but only the consensus of the persons involved in the negotiations on the application of the Act on the Register of Contracts, which could thus contribute to a simpler and more uniform application of the Act on the Register of Contracts. The Ministry of Health therefore represents transparently the outcome of the meetings of the stakeholders. The material describing the different types of contracts is then based on the applicable law. It also includes the Institute of Business Secrets under Section 504 of the Civil Code. The non-publication of information covered by business secrets respects both the Act on the Register of Contracts and the Act on Free Access to Information. If any information complies with the legal attributes of business secrets, then it should not be disclosed. This says the applicable law, and the document in question does not deviate from that. The document sets out clear conclusions that those contracts are to be published with the exception of those passages which are not to be published under the applicable legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u163	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Ambassador, please, your follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u164	Dear Minister, thank you for your explanation, but I personally consider it scandalous when the Ministry of Health officially meets with companies and health insurance companies and jointly arranges for a procedure to cloud and disable the real prices paid for medicines purchased from public funds. This will probably not be easy for insurance companies to set payments according to real market prices. Not to mention the Europe-wide regulation of drug prices, to which we are obliged to contribute by referencing prices according to the so-called 'EU'. transparency directives. If everyone were to make this honest reference, we might as well wrap it up with a massive reduction in drug spending in the EU. And the fact that it is recommended to hide what and under what conditions hospitals received financial donations from various farms is really the highlight.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u165	A question, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u166	So I'd like to explain why this is being done because I don't think business secrets are all that's being pointed out here. This is simply a distortion of the meaning and meaning of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u167	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not have much to add to what I have said. Through Mr President, I am surprised by Mr Hovorka's opposition to the fact that the Ministry is communicating with the key Stakeholder companies that pharmaceutical companies are. When it was published that Mr Hovorka's assistant was paid by pharmaceutical companies, I am surprised by the double standard that the Ministry could not meet at the official meeting and then make it public transparently, and on the other hand, there is someone who is paid by pharmaceutical companies with hundreds of thousands of sums, as published by the media, and that seems to be okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u168	Thank you, Minister. Another 19th interview will be given by Mr Petr Kudela, who will interpel the present Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán on the publication of the results of the management. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u169	Hello. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of my interpellation, I was led by a clear coincidence when I wanted to find out on the Justice website the results of the management of an organisation and I found that there were no results of the management published there. That's why I happen to have a look at the state reconstruction web site, and I've deliberately looked at someone to see if the others should go there (?) or not. I read from his website: Guarantees of the project Reconstruction of the state are representatives of five organizations involved in the revival projects, Our politicians, Center of Applied Economics, Open Society and Bold Bold. The Civic Recovery Association has published its accounts, its annual report and its audit report for 2013 and 2014. The citizens' association Our politicians have nothing published on the Justice website. I couldn't find the Centre of Applied Economics on the Justice website at all, so the question is, what are their names and if I've been looking well. Open company, o. p. s. - financial statements, annual report and audit report since 1999, they have everything there. Bold Bold - I found a total of four organizations on the Justice website. One of them had a little bit, one of all the data since its establishment in 2009 and two of them have nothing at all. So if it is an obligation to publish the results of the Charter Collection, then who controls it and how? If it is not an obligation, why do we not abolish such a provision? Next question. The organization may report its results to the courts, but somewhere there's a hiccup and the documents are not published on the Justice website. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u170	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister, your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u171	Mr President, honourable Members - there are also some, Members, thank you for the question. This is a topic that we have been dealing with for a long time. First of all, I would like to stress that our obligation to publish on a flat-rate basis all the accounts in the Charter Collection is quite unique in Europe. I consider it a positive and beneficial business security. At the same time, we know that many companies do not do it, however much discipline has improved in recent years, and we are therefore looking for ways to improve it. There are existing instruments to enforce this obligation. Primarily, these are fines that can be imposed up to 3 percent of the value of assets or 100 thousand depending on who and in what situation they are. Crowns. However, the problem is that the vast majority of subjects who do not comply with the Charter collection do not fulfil it because they are de facto dead. They're abandoned, forgotten companies, so if we impose a fine there, there'll just be a claim that no one can ever recover, and it's inefficient. Therefore, we are now considering various solutions according to different foreign models, namely in the narrower selection the model is Belgian and French-Slovak, say. Rather, we like the French one at this point, which would mean that if the company didn't have closure for two years, it would, of course, be called upon and not only will it be canceled after futile challenges, but it would be deleted without any liquidation, which is quite strict but effective sanctions. If it finds support in the professional public with whom we are discussing it at this time, it should appear in the amendment to the Trade Corporations Act, which we are now finishing, and we should submit it during this, at the latest next month, to the comment procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u172	Thank you. The Member is not interested in an additional question. I will read an apology: Today from 16.55 to the end of the day, the Minister of the Interior apologizes for reasons of work. Mr Antonín Seďa will give another interview. He will intersect the present Minister of Transport Dan Ťok in the matter of SAO control. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u173	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, the Supreme Audit Office looked into the Ministry of Transport as it dealt with money earmarked for information systems, reminding us that the Ministry has about 50 of them, and out of these, it chose the five most important ones whose purchase price reached 1.2 billion. Crowns. According to the SAO, the Ministry of Transport does not have a long-term strategy for the use of information systems and the plan is allegedly only formal. For this reason, too, delays in launching a new central vehicle register were similar to delays in the central register of drivers and in the register of road transport entrepreneurs, which were to be linked to the systems of other Member States of the European Union. And since this was not provided by the Ministry, the European Commission brought a lawsuit against the Czech Republic. Minister, control also revealed a breach of budgetary discipline for over 425 miles. CZK and also contracts awarded without a tender. I understand these problems are not on your head, but on your predecessors' heads. Nevertheless, I would like to ask how the Ministry of Transport has dealt with the conclusions of these investigations and what specific measures have been taken so that such errors do not recur. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u174	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u175	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like, first of all, to thank you for this question and I would like to say the following. In the period from June 2015 to January 2016, the SAO carried out audit action No. 15/23, management of state property and money in implementation of projects in the field of information and communication technologies of the Ministry of Transport. The person controlled was the Ministry of Transport. The aim of the audit was to check whether the Ministry of Transport spent State budget resources on the acquisition, operation and development of selected information systems economically and efficiently. In a summary of the assessment of the audit conclusion, the SAO notes that the Ministry proceeded in the management, construction and development of information systems in an inconsistent manner and without the basic tools of informed decision-making. Project management procedures were set up and applied by the Ministry only at the time of the conclusion of the contract, so that the project processes prior to the conclusion of the contract were not managed in the context of individual projects. Furthermore, the SAO states that the environment for data storage and for handling data from transport management information systems, of which two information systems, vehicle register and driver register belong to critical information infrastructure, is provided by a private entity, although there is an ICT infrastructure of the State that can provide these services. The audit checked the Ministry's expenditure of 1,233 million (?) CZK, of which the found shortcomings according to the SAO represented more than CZK 425 million. Against the content of the control protocol, the Ministry raised objections which were settled by the head of the control group. The appeal of the Ministry against the decision on objections was settled by the resolution of the SAO College. The audit conclusion was approved by the resolution of the SAO College on 11 April 2015 No. 8/5/2016. At the request of the Prime Minister, the Ministry submitted to the Government on 19 August 2016 for discussion the material Opinion of the Ministry of Transport on the audit conclusion of the SAO from Audit Action No. 15/23. The material has not yet been included in the Government's agenda. The material was discussed in the commentary proceedings with the SAO and Ministry of Finance. The SAO's comments were incorporated and the material is submitted without contradiction to the Government's proceedings. In the opinion submitted to the Government, the Ministry of Transport notes the individual findings. The opinion also includes the current state of implementation of corrective measures on the individual recommendations set out in the audit conclusion of the SAO, which the Ministry of Transport continues to implement. In the context of the opinion of the Ministry of Transport, two specific corrective measures are proposed with the deadline for implementation by 31. 12. 2017 to complete the target strategy of architecture with links to the strategic documents of eGovernment, especially to the national architectural plan, and transfer of IT infrastructure to the state data centre. The Ministry does not fully identify with the SAO's view on the identified ineffectiveness in the field of public procurement, and in this respect only the Office for the Protection of Competition can give an authoritarian decision. I would also like to add that you are right that the Ministry in the past would say that it did not work well or that it did not work well to connect individual registers in the so-called register. the EUCARIS system, the European Information Sharing System. I would like to inform you here as well as the others that we have made significant progress. Our registers are already connected and the infringement, the lawsuit has been dropped, i.e. There is no harm in the Czech Republic here. When I came here, I set up a group that devotes very intensively to this matter in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior. I believe that by this hard work and mainly by linking registers, we have averted the relatively great damage that the Czech Republic was really in danger of. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u176	Thank you, Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u177	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I thank the Minister for his specific answers, but then I will wait for the government to discuss the material you mentioned.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u178	I thank both the Member and the Minister. Mr Petr Bendl, who will intersect the absent Interior Minister Milan Chovanec on the appointment of officials, will give an interview for the twenty-first time. He's absent, I was apologizing to him a moment ago.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u179	A moment ago, the Minister apologized even though he hadn't been excused all day. I hope that it is not motivated by the concern that the Minister would have to answer the questions I will ask him or some of my subsequent colleagues. I was quite closely following the case of ERÚ and Mrs. Chief Vitásková versus Dr. Vesecká. The government may even have dealt with this because there was a violation of the law in the case of the appointment of Mrs Vesecká, which allegedly did not meet the conditions of the Service Act, etc. But we also have such cases at the Ministry of Agriculture, when the head of the State Land Office seems to have been completely proven to be appointed to office without fulfilling the legal prerequisites that allowed it to take up such a function. Yet, according to my deep conviction, she was legally appointed to this high post. And so I wanted to ask the Home Secretary, and I hope that he will answer me how the Ministry feels about this situation, by extension, his deputy. Whether we have witnessed two different approaches in a very similar case or whether this matter is dealt with in all seriousness at least, i.e. the appointment of the Director of the State Land Office as the person responsible for billions of assets in breach of the Service Act. I think this is a very serious case, and I therefore ask the Minister to answer me in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u180	Thank you. Mr Ludvík Hovorka, in his 22nd interview, will intersect the absent Minister of Education Kateřina Valachová on the topic of business called SCIO. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u181	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, entrance exams for universities have been essentially outsourced by Scio for a long time, which basically has a monopoly on the organisation of admission procedures for universities. The company produces and sells exams from mathematics, social sciences, organizes and evaluates the success of students. Madam Secretary, do you consider it right that verification of students' knowledge is largely left to the point of how students learn how to handle tests without verifying their real knowledge and abilities in any other way? Do you consider it right that students are asked questions after a successful solution to the task, which do not indicate the correct result but are to compare the value of the result? Do you consider adequate time available to students to solve the tasks they receive under the tests? And do you also consider it reasonable to sell individual tests, approaches to results and access to the evaluation of results? And do you also consider it right that the people who started the company basically left the Ministry and the information they had transferred to the private company and now they've been outsourcing selection procedures or admission procedures for college? I ask for a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u182	I thank the honourable Member, he will be answered in writing. Mr Petr Kudela, who will interpel an absent foreign minister, Lubomír Zaorálek, on the subject of Chinese Christians in the Czech Republic, will give the 23rd interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u183	Mr President, Minister, Mr absent Minister of Foreign Affairs, there are currently a group of Chinese Christians in the Czech Republic who are applying for asylum in our country because they are being persecuted in their country for their beliefs and their faith. That question has already been asked before me by Vice-President Gazdík of the Prime Minister, who answered him. However, I would like to ask you, Minister of Foreign Affairs. Everyone tries to create good relationships with their neighbors, and so does every country tries to create good relations with its closer and more distant neighbours. Very intensive relations are currently taking place with China, or economic relations, in the field of culture, sport, health, etc. But every neighbor is interested in how his other neighbor lives, and if he knows something wrong is going on there, he's trying to point it out. So I want to ask whether, in building our rich trade relations, our diplomacy warns Čína that something is happening to them that is contrary to our perception of human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u184	Thank you, honourable Member. He will also be answered in writing. Mr Radim Holeček will intersect the absent Interior Minister Milan Chovanec on a network of revolutionary cells. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u185	Dear Minister, on Sunday, September 4th, the police arrested anarchist Lukáš B from Mosteck, who is suspected of establishing a network of revolutionary cells, which, among other things, claims to ignite 16 police cars. The accused, who, according to what he said on the Internet, fought against capitalism, armed with solidarity, a desire for freedom, courage and other weapons, is already God in custody. I wonder if the police control the situation as to whether other members of the network of revolutionary cells and other left-wing extremists are being monitored and whether the residents of the Ústí Region can already feel safer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u186	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Michal Kučera, who will intersect Minister Richard Brabec, who is perhaps here somewhere, will bring forward the 25th interview on the situation in the Czech Environment Inspection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u187	Well, thank you for the floor, and since I don't see Minister Brabec here, I'm downloading the interview and keeping it for next Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u188	Thank you. Mrs Markéta Adamová, who will interpel... She won't interpel, or she's not present, her interpelation is failing. Let's move on to another interpellation. Mr Martin Novotný will intersect the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok on the construction of motorways. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u189	Good afternoon. Even with time, I'll try to be brief. Minister, in March last year you estimated that the construction of about 400 km of motorways in the territory of the Czech Republic would be launched, not completed, during your operation. I want to ask you what the state of this time of yours is, how much really these new buildings are building, and how you estimate that balance will look like by the end of this term.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u190	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u191	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the question. I would like to read here - or I do not want to read what the office has prepared for me, because these are clearly known things about what things affect, or how motorways and roads are planned in the Czech Republic. I'll go specifically to your questions. The first thing is - of course, we are really limited by two things at the moment. The first thing is the suspended preparation of the buildings, which was in 2010 and basically the exception of Minister Stanjura, who actually moved it again, it fell down again, but we are currently giving about two to three billion crowns to prepare the buildings, which are mainly used for land purchase and project preparation. About my estimates. I don't have the exact numbers here, but I can send you our chart and analysis. We are counting on about 70 km of new motorways and I. class roads starting this year. The modernization of the D1 motorway does not count. I can send you the specific numbers. In the next year we are counting especially because we managed to unblock the ten, namely nine projects that have an exception from the EIA, so we would be able to start the next year about 140 kilometers. So I'm sure the work is going very well. I don't want to talk too much about what factors are delaying the preparation of roads, the preparation of transport infrastructure projects. I would just say here, what I read very often in various comments in the press, that the Ministry of Transport has not been able to build full-fledged highways in the last twenty, twenty-five years between all regional cities or add to its plans - it is, of course, true to some extent, on the other hand, it seems rather hypocritical when you read deep-seating human stories about how someone has managed to block something, how someone wants to expropriate themselves and how they successfully defend themselves. I think that, in order not to have to debate this very intensively at all levels, it would be necessary for all politicians to start thinking that there would really be a need to find a way for the state to promote public interest in infrastructure structures. [[17.50 hours]] Because if the entire complicated construction system is what it is in the Czech Republic today with its seven ministries, who are talking about it in every construction process, and I am not talking about individual municipalities with extended scope and possibility of withdrawing all non-profit organizations, then we will still talk about how we are not able to do it. [[Having regard to the ……]] I would very much like to find a way to promote public interest, to significantly simplify the construction process, because without these steps, we will only explain why this cannot be done. I'm tired of it. I would rather build and conquer transport infrastructure and to the extent, I would say which was in the past or which was not usual in the past. So we're really starting construction and coming over. I'll give you specific numbers in person, or I'll send them to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u192	Thank you. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u193	Thank you. Of course, I'll wait for the specific numbers. Just to have a comparable base for the statements, you just mentioned 70 kilometers of highways and first-class roads. He's the problem that if we can't spend the money on the highways, then we're moving it to other classes of communications, that's kind of a trend. Do you have any idea, or will it be in the chart I get, how many of these are highways, and how many are first-class roads?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u194	Please, Minister, a follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u195	Mr President, most of these roads are highways. You'll see for yourself. When you say the benchmark base, my numbers were based on the fact that we could agree with the European Commission on the original ones you mentioned that we could do the coherence of the stand not for ten projects, but for all the hundred projects that are. However, I want to say here that even in this situation, the number of projects or what we have done will enable us to make very effective use of the resources from the European Union. We will not lose any, and we do not need to look for other ways to use them effectively elsewhere, because we are able to use them in transport infrastructure - here I note not only road but also rail. So at about 50: 50, we have our plans, and we're going to continue with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u196	Thank you, Minister. I'm probably getting the last of the interpelations. Mr Petr Bendl will intersect the absent Minister Marian Jurečka in the matter of flats for civil servants.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u197	Thank you for the floor. Minister, from its chapter, the Ministry of Agriculture financed millions of sums for renovations and furnishings of apartments for your Deputys. I would like to know how the apartments were selected and who selected them, how much the rent is and who pays them, who owns the apartments. I ask for copies of all the contracts relating to these investments and lease agreements between - probably, I hope - the Ministry of Agriculture and some legal person. At the same time, I am asking for the definitive cost and expenditure structure in this matter. I trust you'll answer me within 30 days at the latest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u198	Thank you, honourable Member. It wasn't the last of the interpelations. We're gonna make one more. Mr Ludvík Hovorka will intersect the absent Minister of Education Kateřina Valachová on the number of places at medical faculties. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u199	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. The Dear Minister, more and more students, even highly gifted graduates of high school, are bitterly unacceptable. In doing so, it is widely known that a very sensitive lack of doctors, as well as university-educated nonmedical professions, is beginning to be. That is why I would like to ask you why the government will not provide more seats at the medical faculties. Isn't the reason that a large number of places are taken by foreign students who pay for their studies at university? Can you please find out how many places in medical schools have been opened in recent years, and how many of these numbers are blocked for foreign students who may not be able to strengthen many of our doctors? Isn't there something wrong with communication at the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports with the Ministry of Health, medical faculties, when the government is unable to respond to the growing demand and the impending lack of staff in hospitals by increasing the number of places for Czech medical faculty students? Wouldn't it be a solution to help medical faculties financially avoid being dependent on income from foreign students? Thank you for any written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-08-ps2013-049-03-020-260.u200	Thank you, honourable Member. This was the last interpelation today, as according to the Rules of Procedure of the last interpelation to a member of the government can be submitted no later than 17.55 hours. I apologize to Mr Seďa, it is 17.56. I would violate the Rules of Procedure if I gave you my word, I'm sorry. Thank you. I wish you a good evening, and I conclude today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We'll continue tomorrow at 9:00 a.m., points from the third reading block. Have a good night.
