ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u1	115. Mr Petr Fiala's proposal, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, Mr Ivan Adamec, Mr Adolf Beznoska and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended / House print 558/ - first reading I apologize, co-workers and colleagues, but I'm going to ask you to keep your voice down, because the noise level is really big here. So if you have something important you need to deal with, go to the lobby. Thank you. We received the Government's position as House Press 558/1. I prosit that Mr Petr Fiala present the proposal for the appellants. [[Not present.]] In that case, the proposal shall be made by President Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u2	Thank you for the floor, I'm also a plaintiff, so I think I can represent the President in this. So it is quite paradoxical that this bill, which has been here since July, is coming to the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies today, when we are already watching the competition of coalition government parties in recent days and weeks for who will bring a better, more populist proposal for changes in value added tax rates. I would introduce the proposal briefly first and then try to explain why we think that's a good thing, and what we're going to vote on today. The proposal essentially brings two things: reducing the basic VAT rate...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u3	I will ask you, colleagues, once again, even though I did so a little while ago, to keep it down. Please respect the fact that the draft of the new law is being presented here. Please, Mr. Chairman, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. So this bill brings about a change in the basic VAT rate by two percentage points, i.e. from 21 percent to 19, and the change reduced, that's what they used to call it, now it's the first reduced rate, from 15 to 14 percent. That's the first change. And the second change that we are proposing is the transfer of restaurant and hotel services outside alcohol from the basic rate to the first reduced, i.e. in this case, if it passes, from 21 to 14 percent. [[17.50 hours]] I want to remind you of the words that the Minister of Finance has used very often here. He says: "You have raised VAT to 15 and 21 percent. It was wrong. We don't like it." He has every right to this criticism. I want to remind you that VAT rates have been rising to finance the failure of money from the first pillar of the pension system. Who remembers how many left-wing opposition politicians, for example, forecasted back then, as was 20 billion. every year that there will be a blackout from the first pillar. Turns out in almost three years it was a few hundred million, not 60 billion. This government majority legitimately, although I consider it a mistake, has abolished the second pillar, but at the same time it retains the increased VAT rates, which the finance minister so likes to criticize. [[Restlessness in the room.]] If, and I suppose so... Maybe if coworkers from the socde had done the club off, it wouldn't be bad. If there is a motion to reject this bill, let us consider what we are actually voting on. We will vote on the increase in the VAT rate. Nothing else. Such juggling with the words that we did not increase taxes, those who raised it was a very bad and wrong step. And now that we're proposing back because it's not the second pillar, going back to the level before the second pillar, it's the wrong step again. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] When we use elementary logic, at the same time, some government politicians say that raising VAT to 21 percent was a mistake, and at the same time, the same ones say that reducing it from 21 would also be a mistake. And that's not how logic works, ladies and gentlemen. Either it was a mistake to lift to 21, or it's a mistake to cut from 21. He can't pay both at the same time. I know that some current politicians are the masters of both pro and cons. At the beginning of the week, they're for, then they're against, and then they're for again. But that's no way to treat tax rates. Remember your performance at the time you introduced the third VAT rate, how many ministers and members of the government were suffocating that there would be only three items and never more so that we would add a fourth and a fifth later, and that there would be a competition between Social Democrats at the moment, the ANO movement, I don't know if KDU colleagues have joined in, I really don't know what would be transferred from the first reduced to the second reduced. I was commenting on the fact that this is the magic of the second reduced rate so that we can populously address some groups of taxpayers and say: for you we will reduce from the first to the second reduced rate, for you we are doing this. This proposal reduces VAT to all. We have noted an effort to reduce VAT on draft beer. We heard two reasons from one mouth. I saw the posters, even there was a banner that I asked to be removed, which said that the beer would be cheaper. And at the same time, they're saying that there's going to be an increase in the innkeeper's margin, and we're actually going to compensate for their increased costs on the EET. I mean, those really small pubs, those really little innkeepers aren't VAT payers. Not at all. [[There's still noise in the room.]] So they're not related to your VAT duel on the draft beer. I really have to admire opinional and evidence acrobatics when someone says yes, there must be no reduced VAT rate on alcohol, but be careful, beer is a service and services can already be reduced VAT rate. I don't know whose service is beer. I understand duty a little differently. In the same logic, there can be service and wine and hard alcohol. I think it might as well be. Some people prefer wine and beer for lunch. When it is a service, as those who are in need of evidence claim, why not, but I find it particularly brave especially when it follows about a few days after the government announces its goal of reducing alcohol consumption in the Czech Republic. I don't see why not. The system is more complicated thanks to the third VAT rate, more obscure and thanks to this we have launched really political races to convert it from the 15- or 14-percent rate to 10%. And you'll always find a good reason why this group should be privileged. In the past few days, I have recorded the statement of the Minister of Finance saying, "My goal is two rates..."
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u5	I'm especially asking the left side to keep it down. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u6	Let us remember the words of the Minister of Finance, who says: "I aim at two VAT rates - 20 and 10 per cent. " I'm telling you why not. However, I would like to remind you that about 18 months ago, we voted on an identical proposal. This proposal for another VAT amendment was made by our President Petra Fiala, for that time there were 75 Members, which is not a small number at all, I think the treaty was just over 80. Let us remember the opinion of the Minister of Finance, who said on the microphone: "I am fundamentally opposed. " Most government Members voted with him and most government Members rejected the proposal for two VAT rates - 10 and 20. This went opposite your belief that some services should be at 10% VAT. And we say well, but it's still better to have two rates than three rates. I also declare that if the Minister of Finance has changed his mind and supports our original proposal that we are happy, we can read the amendment at second reading and we can enforce it so that it will apply from 1 January next year, that is to say in good time. Or maybe it's just a smoke fog, we're gonna beat ourselves up in proposals on VAT, one coalition board, the other coalition board, the third coalition board, and he's gonna say, "We'd like beer, but they want lemonade, and we'd like lemonade, not beer, but rather bread, and the third say they want bread and beer, not lemonade." I don't know. I'm lost in it. I think you're lost in it, too. If there was one rate, which is our long-term programme goal, all these debates will fall away. There won't be absurdities in the system that when you have dessert at the coffee shop, you pay a different VAT than when you take the dessert with you. That's the area for tax evasion. Who's gonna check it out? So the best way we're going to fight tax evasion is not EET, it's not control reports, it's a simple tax system. Much better. Part of the proposal is what is in the accompanying law to EET, which means the transfer of restaurant and hotel services with the exception of alcohol to the basic rate. That means from 21 to 14, or if we agreed on two rates - 10 and 20, from 21 to 10. And I keep saying that the best thing is one rate, a little worse is two, and the worst is the current system of three, which the finance minister also said was a coalition compromise, he doesn't like. It is such a political paradox that the government, which introduced the third rate with the approval of the Minister of Finance, says by the mouth of the Minister of Finance that its aim is to have two rates. Doesn't that seem weird to you? Put it in place and say right away that you don't like it, and as a big target, I'm going to put it in a state that was before your intervention? If we use static calculations, there's no doubt that there's going to be a blackout on the revenue side of the state budget. That's right. But where will the money stay? Either with entrepreneurs, they increase profits and pay higher taxes, or they create additional jobs, or with those who buy services, that means they get more money in their wallets and they can spend money on other services. This means the static calculation does not work here, the revenue of the state budget would certainly work dynamically and the decline would not be as dramatic as expected. But even if the decline was as the government puts it in its position, and I do not question these figures in any way, these are the numbers that the Ministry of Finance has calculated, and we do not want to argue whether the number is correct or whether it is too pessimistic or optimistic. So let's say that this is a professional estimate, a static calculation. It's okay. [[18.00 hours]] I just want to remind you that every year in these years we spend about 1,250 billion. And we hear that with a blackout, maybe five billion. or 6 billion. the state budget can't handle it. I don't know. Consider the percentage yourself. I think the state budget will handle it perfectly, you just won't be able to spend that much. That's all. And that's a good quality if you don't spend so much and increase operating expenses. If this bill forces you to do so, it is also a good effect, except that there will be more money either to taxpayers or to our entrepreneurs. If you refuse, join those who have raised the VAT rates, and do not argue that it remains as it was. You have a chance to change that. The second pillar is not, but you can use the VAT money. So say that the government did it well, the last one that picked it up - and we believe that it was a transitional measure, forced by a difficult economic situation not only in the Czech Republic, but in Europe and the world in general, today the economy is doing well, let us be happy. I don't think anybody's complaining about it, that's a good thing. And now there's a chance to cut the taxes. But of course this is a system approach that isn't as popular as saying: I designed the cheap beer. - It's nothing, I designed the sodas! And the third one says, "It's nothing at all, except for the bread, I designed milk and butter..." I don't think that's a dignified debate. And if it's true that the Coalition Council discussed it yesterday for four hours, I hope you got to this - two VAT rates, 19 and 14 or 20 and 10. We're not designing our political agenda here. We're in opposition, we respect that. I was just saying we'd like one rate. But a return to what was before the introduction of the second pillar, or a proposal to which Andrej Babiš joins, that he would like 10 and 20. Well, if he likes it, then my dear colleagues and colleagues from YES, please make your chairman happy, let's hear it for the second reading. If we agree on the amendment that instead of 21, 15 and 10 will be 20 and 10, I say that we citizens will support this. Thank you and I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u7	Thank you, Mr President. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Václav Votava. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, members of the government, I would take up my intelligence duties. This parliamentary proposal essentially addresses three issues. First, the reduction in the basic rate of value added tax from 21 to 19 per cent, the first reduction in the tax rate from 15 to 14 per cent, and, second, the conversion of catering services from the basic rate to the first reduced rate. I would refer only to the Government's position, which, of course, the petitioner did not mention here for clear reasons, in which I am. It states that the proposed reduction in value added tax rates does not correspond to the Government's intention to change the taxation of supplies of goods and services by this indirect tax. The proposed measure does not correspond to the government's concept of form and possible changes in this tax, which is also due to the obligation contained in the coalition contract to reduce only the first reduced VAT rate, but in connection with the previous increase in the efficiency of the tax collection. It is further said that the Government is convinced that a decision on the proposed level of tax burden should be made on its own in the case at hand, given the significant decline in the state budget already under discussion for 2016, and should be preceded by a detailed legal and economic analysis, including a consistent assessment of the impact of such regulation. Furthermore, it states that the government does not simultaneously identify with the petitioner's claim on the amount of income loss as a result of the proposed reduction in value added tax, which, according to a qualified estimate, would be 3 billion. higher than the petitioners give. This negative impact would be further reinforced by a change in the budgetary determination of taxes, as a reduction in the share of the State budget in the national gross return on value added tax has been proposed since 2016. And maybe I'd quote one more paragraph. The proposal to transfer catering services to the reduced rate of value added tax contained in the submitted parliamentary proposal is entirely consistent with the proposal submitted by the Government in the framework of the draft law amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Sales Recording Act, House press 514, which is already being discussed in the Chamber of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the Government's position, the government's negative position, the dissenting government's position, I make a motion to reject first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u9	Thank you, rapporteur. I noted your proposal. So I am now opening up a general debate and asking who is applying to it. prosit, Chairman Kalousek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u10	Thank you. I have a polite question for the members of the government coalition and, in fact, for the rapporteur. You love to say that your great task, which you have already largely accomplished, is to correct the mistakes of right-wing governments. We have made many mistakes in your opinion, and you have consistently corrected those mistakes by disturbing the things that we have introduced without having any compensation for them. But please, it's legitimate, you have a mandate, you have votes. We have increased VAT rates in connection with the second pillar and pension reform to finance pension reform, and you have said that the second pillar is a mistake and that the increase in VAT rates is a mistake. I therefore do not think that the increase in rates was a mistake in relation to pension reform. But I'm willing to admit it to you. Okay, you're right, it was a mistake. Come and fix this mistake with us. We humbly admit that this was a mistake, as Minister Babiš often says, as the President of the Committee on Budgets often says. He says - right-wing governments made mistakes, increased our VAT... Well, let's put it back. Mistakes are meant to be repaired. Why, in your opinion, did you cancel the mistake that was the second pillar without blinking an eye and the second mistake, the higher rates, do you want to fix it? Well, because you don't think it's such a mistake. Because you just want to say the mistake verbally, and you don't want to give the money back to those people. It's kind of ugly hypocrisy. If I don't think you're ugly hypocrites, I'll admit it was a mistake, and you come with us to make amends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u11	Thank you. I'm asking... I'm not asking. I have here one factual comment by Mr Jiří Dolejš. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u12	Thank you for the floor. When I hear a dispute about the concept of finance, if right-wing governments had a bad concept, the current government has birth control... I can't do it. You guys kind of unleashed a kraken. Because I'm watching right-wing governments raise taxes, and a government that can't be named left-wing, let's say compromise, twists like dog wine and says, "Whether they're gonna lower taxes on beer or lemonade... It seems roughly comparable to me. Because if the government is in the custody of the psychicism, the licensing of commodities that drive it better voters, and eventually it doesn't do it anyway because it can't agree - see Monday's coalition arrangement, you want to cut taxes, but in such a particular way that it might make the taxpayers happy, that's clear after all, but it's certainly not bound by consumers, because the inflexibility of the price is known to be downward when the indirect tax is reduced a little bit... Like that beer, it would not be cheaper, let's just say, so even your reduction in VAT would not make consumers happy. So who do we want to please, and how do we strategically design the tax system? I'd give you one absolution, but I'm telling you right now, I'm not inclined to say that even small steps can lead to what we're pushing for, after all. And that's the left-wing concept. This is, of course, based on reductions in indirect taxes so that final prices for consumers can be reduced, i.e. at least to return to 2007. [[18.10 hours]] But because it would be a run-in to the budget, it would be a far more substantial European-based tax progression. We tried it in the fall, in December, on the board of the budget committee. I commend my fellow comptrollers for discussing matters. I chválit the representative of the Ministry of Finance, but the situation has not yet been ripe on the floor of the Budget Committee. Look forward to it. I'm sure we'll come up with a similar concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u13	Thank you, too. Now, Mr. Speaker. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u14	So I have quite well guessed that the rapporteur will propose rejection. I just want to remind the slogan of the YES movement in particular: We do not raise taxes. We are the dam against social democracy populists who would like to raise taxes. So let me remind you of a few cases where you've already raised your taxes, and today you're going to do it again. Firstly, you have abolished the concept of a super-gross wage that was not budgetaryly neutral. You cancelled the end of the supergross wage, which should have been from - it should have been, it was approved, it was not effective - from 1 January 2015, not 2016, when the tax on the supergross wage of 15 percent was replaced by a tax on the gross wage of 19 percent. That wasn't budget neutral, as the finance minister says today: I'm not gonna cancel it just to get the same money. [[unintelligible]] Taxpayers were to save about 20 billion crowns. This means 20 billion taxes increased in 2015, by 20 billion this year, as well as in the coming years. That's the first tax increase. Because if it were to be budgetaryly neutral, it would be some 20,2 or 20,3, let's not argue about the exact number. Secondly, you have divided the taxation of investment funds. For some investment funds, you raised it from 5 to 19 percent. Second case. Thirdly, you have introduced a tax on saved money under life insurance. Maybe some of you forgot about that. That's the new tax you've imposed. You have introduced progressive taxation on personal income. Solidary premium. We can argue with Minister Babiš whether it's marketing good or bad. Let's call it a solidarity premium. Or the second personal income tax rate. I almost don't care. It was due until 2015. You, the YES movement, who say we want to cut taxes, have extended it for this year and for years to come. That's the fourth increase in taxes you've pushed. In doing so, you say that you are preventing those socialists from raising taxes, while you are raising them hand in hand, with the support - so as not to forget - of the smallest coalition parties who faithfully vote with you in tax laws. Even when we propose a program point that was approved by the KDU-ČSL convention last June or May, colleagues will forgive me for not remembering it exactly, but they have what the Communists said in the convention conclusions, so the opposition party suggested it, we, to return the discount on children and the wife for businessmen. How did the KDU-ČSL representative vote on the Committee on Budgets? Against! Against your own program. Why? Because on the same day, the Coalition Council wisely discussed this, and now the wise will discuss it several more times, and maybe they will come up with the same proposal with great fame in a year and say: Dear voters, we, KDU-ČSL, have pushed through the coalition to finally start discussing the proposal for the refund of tax discounts for children and wives. And they don't say the second sentence anymore: but there was the same proposal once, but since it wasn't ours, we can't really put the opposition behind it, so we've got it covered, and now we're gonna copy it, and maybe we're gonna convince our coalition partners, and maybe we're gonna support it. That's the fifth time you raise taxes. Now there's another case. We can interpret the rejection correctly that you are raising VAT from 14 to 19 to 15 and 21. And you can get three billion more out of the state budget. I told you I wouldn't argue with that number. So you're going to pull three billion more out of taxpayers' pockets and give it to this government. So that's the sixth case of you raising taxes yourself. At the same time, you're saying, "We're preventing tax increases." It's not true. [[Big noise from the left side of the hall.]] And I'm not gonna talk about other taxes, I'm not gonna talk about tax exemptions and reliefs, green diesel, biofuels, that sort of thing. That's where the state can go. And I said, on Mr Dolejš's remark - I did not say that the reduction would be reflected in the reduction in the final prices. I said that the difference will be shared by entrepreneurs who can pay a higher income tax or create more jobs and possibly consumers. Especially in those sectors where there is a strong competition, in some really not. Unlike the government. Remember how she claimed that, for example, drug prices or books would fall, and now they don't want to evaluate it after that year. But the third rate spell is already there. Now they're gonna... Like with the beer. I have to say no, it's the same as the beer proposal. Beer is one commodity, still defined as service. We propose a flat-rate reduction - to all payers, to all commodities. It's a system approach. Pluck individual items out of basic or reduced... And it doesn't make me remember the election vows of some of the government parties today, how they're gonna make the reduced rate best for baby diapers. [[unintelligible]] When we told you that it is not possible that you are not able to do this, not because you do not have the majority, but because it simply does not allow harmonised taxes within the European Union, you somehow squirmed about it as you try to negotiate it. How many times have you discussed this transfer in Brussels? How many times have you really acted? How many times did the Prime Minister open it on the Council? How many times have individual ministers opened this up at the Council? I'd quite like to know the question... Because here you could see clearly from the beginning that you're promising something that you're not capable of fulfilling. But we can reduce both VAT rates without Brussels. We don't have to make excuses for Brussels. We don't have to say, that's what the bureaucrats are telling us. It's our free choice. So if you reject the proposal, all of you who will be in favour will raise taxes for the sixth time in this election period. Why not? But then don't be surprised that we quite rightly say that this cabinet is left-wing and does left-wing politics. And that's a legitimate political opponent. He's an ideal opponent. We disagree. But you can't pretend, especially you of the ANO movement, that you are the right-wing dam in the left-wing government. Well, you're not. Don't be mad at me. No, you're not. You and your colleagues from the ČSSD, whose political program I fully respect, are very obediently hand-in-hand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u15	Thank you. I'm filing two applications. Mr Votava's first rapporteur. After that, Mr. Fiedler. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u16	I didn't want to react to it anymore, but he won't give me, Mr. Speaker. As for the second reduced VAT rate on drugs, books and so on, what's there, he knows for sure that there's a budget committee resolution here, and he's gonna get that information. So here I think it's kind of like carrying wood into the woods when it's mentioned. That's the first thing. Mr President, you will have that information. Applying here to a reduced rate of VAT on beer - that is no coalition proposal, Mr. Colleague, that is, of course, someone else's proposal. So I wouldn't operate on that here. Of course, the question is, how will the coalition come to an agreement? I see you may have some information from the coalition meeting. Okay. You are constantly referring to an increase in VAT within the second pillar. You didn't raise the reduced VAT rate, which is for the most sensitive things, even then because of the second pillar. You've been increasing this since 2008 from 5% to 9, if I'm not mistaken, until it went on, of course, to that level today. So you're always pulling something out, and then you're operating on it. So I think that's also important to say. Of course, the interest of the coalition is to reduce taxes, reduce VAT. After all, this is what the coalition is talking about, but not in the way that you suggest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u17	Thank you. I'm registering the petitioner's factual comment. Your point of order. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u18	So really only two minutes. First of all, the proposal is going to return rates to the time before the second pillar. All the stew records, all the period documents will convince you that you're not telling the truth. One percent of the reduced rate and two percent were made due to the second pillar of VAT. [[Nesroz.]] And if you're saying that we've been increasing rates, especially the reduced rates, yes, I've said that our long-term program goal is to have one rate, so you're bringing them closer together. But you forgot to tell us what you hadn't forgiven us to this day and what was very good, and that was during the government when I wasn't in the Chamber of Deputies yet. You are constantly criticizing that Mirek Topolánek's government has reduced direct taxes and taxes to those active and hardworking by about 80 billion. per year. And you're still operating on it that you're missing it in the budget. You forgot about that - a significant reduction in direct taxes, which means a reduction in performances or penalties for successful ones. This is what we have really pushed through - my predecessors and colleagues, and you are very fond of criticizing this. These proposals - I'm gonna take a progressive tax and I've got it back, so that's exactly what's wrong. We as the right believe that taxes are to be simple, and if the state is to collect them, it is fairer to collect indirect taxes and tax consumption than to tax performance and activity. We've been doing this for a long time. Those tens of billions each year remained taxpayers. And I have a feeling it's great today that we've won 450 billion in the EU in ten years. pure, i.e. 45 billion. per year. No big glory at 1,250 billion. expenditure. But we left the taxpayers 80 billion. annual - specific people to decide for themselves. This is almost twice as much as the famous European Union, which has given us less than half at the cost of the enormous administrative costs that no one has calculated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u19	Thank you. Mr Fiedler and then Mr Klaška. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u20	Good evening, colleagues. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The debate that is unfolding here has impressed me here with the words of the chairman of the Committee on Budgets. Mr President, I am sorry, how else should this be proposed? You said no in this way. Well, what other way? I was now - not me, we all witnessed how the coalition council, I don't know, was pulling rabbits out of a hat - beer and groceries and at 14 and at 10 and this. Is that the other way? I think that letting this law go to second reading, having a serious debate about whether it's bearable, putting up amendments, letting go of 20 and, like, 14 or... It's just, at the coalition council, we were wondering if we were gonna go straight to 10, and now it's not gonna sound like that. I have completely cut my ears off, in a way other than to present an amendment to the Parliamentary Law, where the amount of taxes, whether reduced or basic, is given by some percentage, in what other way we should be dealing with it. Let's put it into second reading, let's discuss whether we're going to have a crisis or not in the future. Now we all live in a euphoria that we're doing well. As they say, if you feel great, don't worry, it'll pass. It will pass even this great period of good economic results. Let us consider - but I certainly intercede for having a serious discussion at least about the reduced rate on the floor of this Chamber of Deputies. And we can discuss the increased, as the petitioner suggests, whether 19, if 20 or something, but in any case, maintaining taxes as they are, and in this I agree with colleagues from the right-wing opposition, means increasing them, because we should have gotten into the regime of another. In our Dawn election program, it was at least to return it by a percentage of 20 and 14. And if this proposal is similar, we will certainly support it. And I say, let's discuss that level, evaluate those things, and if the coalition council is dragging rabbits out of a hat, whether beer or everything, or whatever it is, why not? Let us discuss this seriously at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, in committees and for our club: we will certainly support the release for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u21	Thank you. With a factual remark, President Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u22	Thank you. You know, if we were really doing a serious concept of tax restructuring, I would really suggest, first of all, reducing labor taxation, which is the commodity most taxed in our country, and just leave VAT where it is. But since there's obviously no will for that, it just seems fair to me that you put those rates back where they were before the pension reform. And I am sorry, Mr rapporteur through Mr President, of the five, not to nine, but to ten, it was not our government. That was Janotův's package. That was your government, which you approved of the legislative emergency when the union against directors raged, and other things like that. And you also voted to increase their VAT. I don't mind, that was right, but it wasn't ours, it was your government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u23	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Klaška. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, fellow Members, I would like to briefly comment on the part of my colleague Stanjura's speech, in which he mentioned KDU-ČSL with the fact that he was surprised by the vote on the Committee on Budgets, but on another press 612, on his amendment, where he proposes to dismiss discounts or the impossibility of relief of tradesmen for dependants and wives in tax flats. So I would like to say that, first of all, this is a different press, but I voted in this way in the Committee on Budgets for several reasons. Firstly, the KDU-ČSL is actually preparing its own proposal in this regard, when we will seek to support the coalition. Of course, if ODS or colleague Stanjura joins us, we'll definitely be happy. And colleague Stanjura has already announced this at first reading that he is curious about how KDU-ČSL will vote if she had it in her electoral program. However, I am very sorry that he did not say and did not come to our club to support this amendment. So much for my statement on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u25	Yes, I register - President Stanjura with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u26	Then for Mr Klaška, by your means. I'll support the proposal if you do. I'm talking about the content, not if Stanjura or Klaška is signed under it. It obviously bothers you that I'm signed under it. What are you doing there? It's very simple! One paragraph is being released - and you've been preparing it for a year. Don't be mad at me. You might want to step up a little bit. First of all. And secondly, I don't know if you're telling me when the KDU-ČSL club is that I'd come in, kicked the door in like a saloon and said, "I'm here and I hope you'll vote in favour of my amendment." It's very unusual, I haven't met it yet that the chairman of the opposition club has been invited to the meeting of the government club. But if you invite me and I can, I'll be happy to come. But you see, there has to be an invitation first. An uninvited guest has nothing to do either at the household or at the meeting of the MP's club. [[18.30 hours]] I see it as an invitation for the next time. Mail address, cell phone. If you invite me, I'll come and convince you to support your own program. It's a little weird. And next time, I'll have you sign for Stanjura, Klaška, so you can vote for it. But you don't have to prepare it, it's all done. All you have to do is pick up your hand in the third reading. It's February, it's high time it's due this year. And you obviously don't want that for 2016. We're prepared to support tax discounts on second and third children in the press, even though you suggested it. And it's due for 2016. Then give it to the tradesmen, too. You still have a chance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u27	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr Klaška. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u28	Thank you for the floor. To repeat that - if I try to support somebody else's amendment, I guess I'll come to him and explain what it's about and ask him for support, or we'll explain some opinions. I think that we should ask colleague Stanjura to come to us, that we will give him or not give him support for his amendment, which seems to me rather that we are talking about one car and the other about something completely different. Just to say it - I felt sorry for Stanjura at the first reading, and I found it rather Phariseeish to make up some amendment and try on someone else's behaviour. I think we can be a little bit different and fairer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u29	Thank you. I don't see anyone else. In any case, I will ask the rapporteur to read in the general debate or to say the motion to reject, which he said in his introductory speech, to say so in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u30	I will. Otherwise, I explained with my colleague Kalousek about the VAT increase. I was kind of right about that. So he acknowledged the mistake, so I'm very glad. Yes, there has been a motion for rejection, which I have already made as rapporteur. I repeat it again. I am filing a motion to dismiss this parliamentary bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u31	Thank you, rapporteur. I wonder if anyone else is joining the general debate. I don't see anyone else. If so, in that case, I am ending the general debate. I'll call in my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby to come and vote. I'll read the apologies that have arrived. Today, from 18.30 to 24 hours for personal reasons, Mrs Markéta Adamová apologizes, and from 18 o'clock for health reasons, Mr Vojtěch Adam apologizes. I'm registering a request for your check-out, so I'll unsubscribe. I'm gonna ask you to sign up again. In the general debate, there was a motion to reject the proposal. Initiating vote. I ask who is in favour of rejecting the proposal, press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 159. 143 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 68, against 64. This proposal was rejected. Now, then, we will consider the proposal for the commandment - I'm sorry, I haven't seen it. [[Votes from the diaper: polling votes.]] There's a vote check, so I'm gonna ask you for a moment of patience. [[After a while:]] I wonder if you object to a vote in progress. I see the honourable Member reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u32	I would like to call into question the vote. I voted in favour of the proposal, and I'm at the junkyard for being held up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u33	Okay. I'll put it to a vote. [[The President of the ODS Club can carry out further checks.]] Once again, the vote will be reviewed. We are not in the debate, so it is not possible to make factual remarks. It is only possible to give priority rights. If this concerns the vote, Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u34	Thank you. I voted in favour, and there's nothing there. I've got that I've been delayed, so I would question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u35	So you're questioning the vote. [[Yes.]] May I continue, Mr. Chairman? Anyway, I think it's okay to respect that someone needs to check the voting list before I go on so that we don't have to go back to that in the course of the next steps. There is Mr Huml's objection, and I will vote on who agrees to accept this objection. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of accepting this objection, raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a vote with order number 160. Registered 144 Members, in favour of proposal 137, against 1. Objection received. In that case, we shall repeat the vote. I'll repeat what we're going to vote on. In the general debate, there was a proposal to reject the rapporteur Votava. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of rejecting this motion, press the button and raise your hand. [[Voice from the right.]] Who's against it? Mr President, I'm in charge of the meeting. I'd like to ask you a question. So it's a vote with order number 161. Registered 144 Members, for proposal 74, against 64. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. The President of Stanjura shall have priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u36	Vice-President Bartošek may proudly say that he is in charge of the meeting, and that is true. However, I object that it did not allow me the final word of the petitioner. I think it was supposed to be long before the vote, so deal with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u37	Yes, you're right. I didn't allow the translator's final word. An objection is raised, I will put it to a vote. [[Member of Stanjure from the place: What are you voting on?]] About your objection that you didn't get the floor as a petitioner at the end of the hearing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u38	You, Mr. Vice-President, are making it too easy on yourself. That means we couldn't vote. Are we clear on what I object to? Do we understand each other, Mr. Vice-President?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u39	Yes, you're right. In that case -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u40	I would ask you to declare this previous vote confusing, to allow the final word of the appellant and the rapporteur, and then we can only vote on the proposals that have been made in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u41	Yes, you're right, Mr. Chairman. I declare the previous vote confusing, and I ask you to take the final floor as a petitioner to make the Rules of Procedure satisfactory. You're right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u42	Thank you. I've got the junk over there. I'm talking to those who didn't have the so-called voting device working, and there were five who changed their minds. I'm talking to you five. Is it worth it? Why don't you hold on to your opinion? Why don't you hold on to your opinion - I won't name you. Anyone who wants to compare the junk from the first and second votes. The kind of hunting we saw here, hunting whoever was so-called wrong, wasn't dignified. And if you want to change VAT, and now you, the government MPs, are in a hurry, here's your chance, because it's the first reading. We do not vote on the final proposal of the civil democrats. So if you refuse, it's legitimate, but then don't say you want to change VAT. It's just that you're releasing the election fog because we can deal with this here in the next few months. If you want the beer, the milk, and the bread, and I don't know what it gives for the better of a single government MP. [[18.40 hours]] So take this opportunity, let it go to second reading, let it go to the budget committee, we can discuss it. I say in advance if the finance minister comes up with what he has in mind, 20 and 10, it's different than 19 and 14, but it's better than three rates and we're ready to support it. It doesn't have to be discussed for weeks or months at the Coalition Council, we can have it in two or three months from the House outside the Senate, which is just enough to say in the semester what the changes to the tax system will be like from 1 January 2017. But if you're so worried about the blackouts, then know that next year the government is the election, there's gonna be another government, so don't act like you're gonna miss the money, 'cause you're not gonna be able to spend it all thanks to the elections.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u43	Thank you. I ask the rapporteur whether he wants to take the final floor. It's not like that. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote. I'm registering a request for your check-out. I'll check you all out and ask you to re-enlist with your cards. I'll call my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby to come to the vote. In the general debate, there was a motion to reject the proposal. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of rejection, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 162, 148 Members and Members registered, for proposal 79, against 65. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been approved. I'm done discussing this point. At the same time, I shall pass the proceedings on to the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u44	Good evening, dear colleagues. The next item is the proposal by Members David Kádner, Martin Lank - sorry, I am sorry. [[There are voices in the hall protesting the last vote.]] Mrs Langšádlová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry. I voted no, and I'm high. I question the vote. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-004-115.u46	There is a request from Mrs Langšádlová to challenge the vote. I put Mrs Langšádlová's objection to the vote. Whoever is in favour of accepting Mrs Langšádlová's objection, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? The vote is serial number 163, 148 Members and Members, for 138, against 2. The motion was accepted. So, for success, one more time. There's a check-out request. So I'm signing you all off, and I'm asking you to sign up with your voting cards. We will again vote on the rapporteur's proposal, Mr Václav Votava, to reject the proposal of Members Petr Fiala, Zbyněk Stanjura, Ivan Adamec and others amending Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax. Initiating vote on the motion to dismiss. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 164, registered 147 Members and Members, for 76, against 67. The motion was accepted. Anyone else please? If no one is questioning the vote, then I am done discussing this point. Thank you to the rapporteur. Now, let's look at the point.
