ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-003-007.u1	7. Government bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 725/ - second reading Under the authority of the government, the bill submitted will be introduced by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová. Madam Secretary, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-003-007.u2	Mr Vice-President, Members, I will remind you of what we already know from the first reading. This bill gives, respectively. In view of the historical context, I should say, it gives the Czech Government the authority to make sure that in cases where valorisation from the automatic legal scheme comes out very low, as it did this year, it is a government that can increase the valorisation by its decision. At the same time, under the coalition agreement, there is a proposal at the moment that there should be a ceiling of 1,7 percent of the average old-age pension. However, I must point out that, during the 15 years up to 2011, when the government had such authorisation, there was no ceiling at all. This proposal was discussed in the guarantee committee which recommended this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-003-007.u3	Thank you. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House Press 725/1. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy take the floor when Mr Opálka will speak on behalf of the rapporteur and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and, where appropriate, of the amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-003-007.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to recap this time. The Government has sent out this proposal to Members on 17 February of this year. We attended the first reading on 9 March and, as a guarantee committee, was tasked with discussing this press by the Committee on Social Policy, which sat down on 31 March. Originally, accelerated reading was assumed according to § 90 para. 2, this has been vetoed. A proposal was therefore discussed in the committee, where, like the previous draft, there was quite a rich discussion. One amendment was tabled by colleagues Vilímec and... [[Looking into the background]] I had to look at it so I could remember. This proposal has also been discussed, especially from the point of view that it does not address so-called. Old-fashioned and new-retirements at any change in its approval, with the fact that it wants an increase in the fixed amount, which would concern en bloc of all pensions, even of the multi-income ones. Finally, the Committee did not approve this parliamentary proposal. Thus, Resolution 184 of the 40th meeting of 31 March, which you all received as House Press 725/1, was approved by which it gives its consent to the Government's proposal and empowers the rapporteur on whose behalf I represent to inform the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-003-007.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate in which I am registering one application. Then I give the floor to Mr Vilímc. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-003-007.u6	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur has informed the Committee on Guarantee, where we have proposed an amendment with Mr Beznoska, on which I will, of course, comment. I have already criticized this government proposal at first reading, as the government sent it to the Chamber of Deputies. Yes, it is in principle a renewal or transfer of the powers of the government to increase pensions, so that for the average old-age pension, the sum of the basic pension statement and the amount of the increase in the percentage of the pension is at least 1,7 % of its amount. The amount was somehow agreed in a coalition, as the secretary pointed out. Of course, it's comfortable for the government. At the moment of the automatically calculated low pension increase, they do not have to go to the Chamber of Deputies. Thus, the former principle of increasing income is renewed by the Government's decision. The Minister also noted that, in fact, at a time when the government had this competence, there was no limit, and the government used it twice in about 15 years. Maybe when the limit wasn't there, it led to more government responsibility. Because no limit was set in the paragrafo version, and therefore the debate on raising pensions beyond the calculation of indicators could not have been related to a guide limit. Limit 1.7 %, it doesn't matter if it's 1.8 or 1, as we propose, it actually legitimizes the assumption that an increase below 1.7 % is sublime and low. In such a case, governments, perhaps precisely left-wing governments, will automatically view this limit as a measure of whether an increase in income is adequate. In the case of a lower increase according to calculated indicators, they will in principle have a methodology that there is a need to compare the increase. I mention this in the context of the views presented on the Social Committee that the fear of overuse of this instrument is unnecessary, given that it has not been used often in the past. Yes, but in the past, no limit has actually been set. We said at first reading, both President Stanjura and myself, that we would strive for a mechanism that would not be advantageous only for a government that would not weaken the position of the legislature, but would be particularly beneficial for pensioners. That is why we have prepared - we are not merely criticising, but we have prepared, together with Adolf Beznoska, an amendment on which I want to comment. [[17.10 hours]] It's actually divided into two parts. First, it increases in two alternatives the so-called basic pension, from 9 per cent to 10 per cent, and in an alternative from 9 per cent to 9 per cent of the average wage rounded to the whole ten crowns, to be exact. The basic pension is such an immutable amount. After all, and here I have to borrow a certain opinion from the pension board, where I do not go, but I sometimes read the conclusion that the basic pension ratio is very low and actually has not been increased as a percentage over the whole period and in fact this amount is not enough to make a living even after counting the minimum amount of the percentage of the pension. That's exactly what the pension board's conclusions say. In sum, the total minimum amount of the old-age pension shall be less than the minimum amount of the individual's life. This has been pointed out by the pension committee and I mention it because, in many cases, the Commission calls for a government coalition, particularly the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. The difference between the living minimum of the individual and the minimum amount of old-age pension is about CZK 240. Therefore, it is appropriate to at least open up a debate on the amount of the basic measure. Of course, and I'm not hiding it, increasing the basics means some kind of impact on the state budget, that's natural, in an imaginary pension account, even if it's part of the state budget. On the other hand, when is it to increase, if we are even considering increasing the basic scale than at a time when the situation is economically favourable? We will certainly not increase this in times of economic disadvantage. An increase to 9.5% is an alternative No. 2, would mean a one-off increase of approximately 3.5 billion. CZK, with the fact that we could resolve for pensioners the often mentioned impact of the necessary measures in times of crisis and the necessary consolidation of the balance of public budgets. On the Social Committee, and the representative of the rapporteur, it was also said from the mouth of representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs that raising the basic rate meant increasing all pensions, including so-called higher pensions, by a certain equivalent amount. That is true, but I do not see why we should resign for a partial increase in the basic pension notice. There are clearly reasons for this. The second part of the proposal concerns some kind of process mechanism for the valuation of pensions. The Minister has also submitted a mechanism for certain guaranteed percentages of valorisation to the government at a time when it enforced a one-off pension increase of 1.8 percent last year. Therefore, we propose that, if the amount of the pension increase is not to be less than 1.2% according to the automatic calculation, the valuation should be set at 1.2% by the government's decision on the basis of the statutory provision, because even if there were any automatic calculation, as it was last year, when it seemed that pensions would only increase by 40 crowns, the government is still doing its utmost to proceed to some extraordinary valuation. So let it be in the law and it is set at 1.2%, which I consider adequate. But in the band above 1,2% and up to 1,8%, we are proposing an even one-tenth higher possibility of valorisation, and the government could provide for this increase with the agreement of the budget committee of the Chamber of Deputies. Of course, this instrument sparked a debate on the Social Committee. On the other hand, the budget committee of the Chamber of Deputies has the power under another special law to approve budgetary measures increasing approved indicators above 10 per cent. I therefore do not see the reason why this committee could not be a trenches to the legislative body in raising pensions, in relation to the power of executives. On the Social Committee, I think it was opened by Mr Sklenák, there was a debate about who was more responsible, whether the Government or the Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, so that this would not lead to any competence disputes. In a situation where the composition of the committee actually corresponds to the distribution of mandates in the Chamber of Deputies and therefore the government coalition has a majority there, I would not be so concerned. On the contrary, we have experienced governments whose composition did not correspond to electoral results, and in this case it may be even more appropriate to have such a policy against the government in the law. I would therefore like to ask for the support of these amendments either on all points or at least on part of the support of these proposals, as it has done, even if it has not received a majority, even in the Social Committee. I think that these proposals are certainly being directed by trying to set up a mechanism that should also be helpful to pensioners. I would like to conclude by pointing out that we have tabled this proposal to the Social Committee precisely in order for there to be a debate, and we have also learnt from the debate legislatively. So if the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs had some comments in relation to the transitional provisions, then transitional provisions in cooperation with parliamentary legislation and in cooperation with the legislation of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs were incorporated and incorporated into the amendment, so there is certainly no reason to challenge them from a legislative point of view. So that's it for me. I believe that we will, of course, return to the debate, we will have to return to this debate on the guarantee social committee, and I believe that the entire government coalition will also consider these proposals responsibly and possibly support them at third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-003-007.u7	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. President Sklenák is now reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-003-007.u8	Thank you for the floor. I have already signed up this time in the general debate so that I am not subject to criticism that I am proposing an amendment when it is due, in detail, and in detail, I will only sign up to the amendment, which I will now briefly introduce to you. This proposal regulates the limit given by the government to the government to increase pensions and thus adjusts from 1,7 % to 2.7 percent of the average pension. This motive is a situation where, at a time when the economy is succeeding, when wages are rising, but we still do not succeed in valorising pensions, although it seems from various public statements that it is the will to valorize pensions by at least 200 crowns, rather to talk about 300 crowns next year, and the government's proposal, as presented, or with a percentage of 1.7, would not allow valorisation by even 200 crowns, according to economic indicators. So for this reason, I'm suggesting that we adjust the percentage of 1.7 to 2.7.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-003-007.u9	Thank you, Mr Roman Sklenák. And now further in the general debate, Mrs Adamová, with a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-003-007.u10	Thank you for the floor. Once again, we have an amendment that changes the original one from a number of government coalitions and from a number of specifically ČSSDs. I would therefore like to know how it is with regard to access to pension reform, or pensions as such, by social democracy. Because the two amendments to the pension insurance laws are just showing a very, say, nonsystemic approach and how you underestimate this issue, which is very serious and which is really one of the biggest topics. [[17.20 hours]] You've canceled pension reform, you're not offering a new one. You don't have a solution that's sustainable in the long run. We're throwing away billions here - here, one proposal, one billion there with other proposals, but that we'd be dealing with whether not only the current pensioners, but also their grandchildren will ever have pensions, that's not what we're dealing with anymore. [[♪ She's throwing her arms around ♪]] I don't like this attitude here. I don't think it's just me. I think he's irresponsible, and it would be better if you started looking at the system as a whole, and not just the partial cosmetic modifications.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-003-007.u11	Thank you, Mrs Adamová. And Mr. Kučera is still reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-003-007.u12	Thanks for the word. I kind of want to say that - in quotation marks, I mean in quotation marks - I'm proposing an amendment where the number 2.7 is replaced by the number 3.7. Why not? Or 4.7? I would like to pause here for a reason - I am glad that Mr Sklenák listens to me too - about the justification that is here, and that is an estimate of the financial implications. The estimated financial impact in Mr Sklenák's reasoning and amendment is: an increase in pensions from January 2017 corresponding to 2.7 percent of the amount of the average old-age pension paid - I understand - would require an additional annual expenditure of CZK 4.6 billion compared to the current legislative situation. Is this a year or a month? [[Member of the Sklenák: Year.]] This means an annual expenditure of 4.6 billion, 2.7 %, according to Mr Sklenák. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-003-007.u13	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is in the debate. No one's checking in from the scene. I can therefore end the general debate. I'm asking if there's an interest, Madam Secretary, in the final word. It's not like that. And the rapporteur doesn't want to either. We can therefore open the debate in detail. I have a Mr. Vilímec registered to that. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-003-007.u14	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for House document 4116, these are the amendments to the House press 725, which I have also explained in the general debate. Without wanting to prolong the debate, I consider it even more important that there should be a loophole in the Chamber of Deputies of the Budget Committee in the process of valorisation. Because the debate that Mr Sklenák opened on the committee is whether the Chamber of Deputies or the Government is more responsible - I am not sure after presenting social democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-003-007.u15	I thank Mr Vilímc. I'm asking who else in the detailed debate. Still Mr Roman Sklenák in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-003-007.u16	Thank you. As I have announced, I am signing up for the amendment that is being conducted in the system under number 4118.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-003-007.u17	Thank you, Mr Sklenák. I'm asking who else to discuss in detail. I don't see anyone. I am ending the debate in detail. I ask the Minister if he is interested in speaking at the end of the debate. He's not interested. The rapporteur is interested. Please, rapporteur, your final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-003-007.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Our esteemed colleagues, as you can see, are facing two more conflicting proposals that await us in the guarantee committee and in the third reading. I would like to point out that both have efficiency in the proposal at 1. 8. 2016. For this reason, I took the liberty of asking the Secretary to block the 13.30 room for tomorrow, but as I have my first contacts, there is no great will to have the Social Policy Committee meeting at noon tomorrow. Therefore, I would ask Vice-President of the Committee on Social Policy, plus Mrs Hnyková and Beznoska, to meet at 18:00, unless there is a vote right after him, for a moment at the piano, and to agree on how we will proceed, because no one here has proposed an alternative, so we will have to deal with this responsibly. Once again, Vice-Presidents plus two representatives of the Dawn and ODS at 18 o'clock, or immediately after the vote, for a moment to the piano. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-003-007.u19	Thank you to the rapporteur. We have no motion for a vote to be tabled at third reading and we can therefore end the second reading of this press. [[correct in second reading]] I'm done with the government bill amending the Pension Insurance Act. And while I wanted to thank the Minister and the rapporteur, they remain in their place because the next proposal is the Government Bill on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties. [[The secretary is leaving the O.R.]] Madam Secretary, thank you for your speeches, the rapporteur too. Now, let's continue with the point.
