ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u1	17. Government bill amending Act No. 114/1992 Coll., on the conservation of nature and landscape, as amended /house print 501/ - second reading We discussed this House press on 4 May this year at the 44th meeting when we interrupted the general debate. I will ask that the Environment Minister Richard Brabec take their seats at the rapporteur's table for the plaintiff. [[Not presently present in the hall.]] Of course, the club's representatives will provide him. At the same time, I will ask that Robin Böhnisch, who is the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee - the Committee on the Environment, take his place at the rapporteur's table, and of course I will ask that Mr Jan Klán, who is the rapporteur of the Public Administration Committee, be prepared as well. Before we continue the interrupted general debate, I will ask the Minister and the rapporteur if they wish to speak before the debate is resumed. They don't. So in the debate, the first colleague František Laudát. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u2	Thank you. I don't get to this point. And since you're asking the Vice-President, I'm asking someone to make sure that you can breathe in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u3	I have already discussed this with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, who will try to negotiate a different ventilation intensity with the House's apparatus. I understand you, but at this point, there is nothing I can do but continue the House of Deputies' negotiations. I also ask my colleague Kláno whether he is interested or not interested in speaking. It doesn't, so we can continue the debate. The first in the debate is Mr Jan Zahradník. In the ongoing debate, to be precise. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u4	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, on the proposal made here by Mr Laudát. Perhaps it would be good to wait for the next point in the negotiations, which has the purpose of air protection. However, I would like to speak to paragraph 17, i.e. the second reading of Act 114 on Nature and Landscape Conservation. In fact, the second reading debate has already started at the previous meeting, when we have already dealt with this law. Several speeches were made, whether regular or in technical and factual terms. One of them impressed me - my colleague Michal Kučera made it quite clear in his speech that it was the Šumava Act. I still have to respond to that again. Yes, it's really lex Sumava, it's a law on Sumava, maybe even a law that aims to legalize everything that happened in the National Park of Šumava and in Sumava itself in the 25 years when the national park is declared on its territory. It happened 25 years ago. The damage caused there can be assessed, estimated from different perspectives. There are even estimates of the environmental damage, one of which determines the damage to the order of 30 billion. Crowns. Not economic damage, not damage that would have its origin in the fact that Sumava has ceased to be an economic forest - which I think is a good thing, and none of us wants to return this - but damage to ecology. The biggest damage, however, occurred there after 2007, after the Kirill Orcan, when Martin Bursík was the Minister of the Environment and director of the Šumava Ing National Park Administration. František the krejčí. Then, instead of proceeding properly, regularly, to leave the fallen trees, which fell at the beginning of January after the storm in Šumava, from the first, but mainly from the second zones, so that the wood was left there, there was a crusty calamity, which results in at least 20,000 hectares of dry forest in Šumava today. A forest that shows some kind of hints that something new might grow in its place, these speeches are very, very limited. Moreover, there is a question of what can grow on the site of a dried forest, what gene pool can be there in the future, if we intend to forbid ourselves in any way in the most valuable first zones, so we forbid ourselves and nature to help each other. I'm not saying that the law doesn't need an amendment, that it doesn't need an improvement on the law of 114 on conservation of nature and landscape. He has resulted in a number of things that we may see around us, whether what I mentioned here, the drying of 20,000 acres of forest in Sumava, or that he also made possible, among other things, that we see yellow rape ropes all around us, or that we still encounter the solar power plants that were created in our country. However, the amendment presented by the petitioner does not solve these problems. He deals with really and only situations in national parks and basically, as I said before, in the National Park of Šumava. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the opinions of environmentalists and their related scientists, there are opinions of scientists who have a different opinion, who do not say that it is actually good for water management in Sumava, that there is a dry forest, as he says for example. docent. Hruška. There are people who say that, on the contrary, dry forest causes a fundamental, fatal change in the thermal situation in this mountain range, much more heat radiation, much more water vapor, loss of water from the soil, etc. Even such an evaluation, even such expert opinions must be taken into account. I'm afraid the lawmakers at the Ministry of the Environment didn't take these views into account. They sounded, for example. At a seminar we held as the last seminar in the Senate where profesor Čermák, docent, spoke. Humility, where they have made it very clear why Sumava should not be left to dry and that dry forest is a huge loss for the water management of our country, that it is a huge loss in the fight against drought, which unfortunately threatens our republic, our continent, our Earth. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one thing that motivates me to put forward some proposals in the second reading during the discussion of our law. The issue, one of them therefore, is that the amendment to Act 114 on Nature and Landscape Protection was addressed by the Representation of the South Bohemia Region at its meeting on 7 April 2016 and adopted a resolution, where, on the one hand, in item 1, the Declaration of the Council on the Amendment to the Act on Nature and Landscape Protection and on the draft plan for the care of the National Park of Šumava was approved and, secondly, asks the Representation of the South Bohemia Region to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to support the proposal to reject the amendment of the Act on Nature and Landscape Protection, or to return it to committees for renegotiation. The declaration, my dear colleagues, aims to make about 12 points. It calls on us to change the law so that it is non-ideological, stable, modern to implement a system of conservation of nature and landscapes of national parks based on the principles of conservative Central European nature conservation, so that it is clear, understandable, invariable, to define the realistic purpose for which national parks are declared. There, of course, also belongs to the preservation of nature to spontaneous development, but not to the majority, not to some indeterminate part of it, but to a precisely defined part that we will be able to know and predict in advance. To make the rules of nature care and the cultural landscape of national parks clear and constant. In order to define Zone C as a basic territorial strategy for the territory of national parks, to define clear rules for the declaration of nature conservation zones. In order to enforce the obligation to implement water retention measures in the landscape and nature of the highest parts of Šumava and other national parks which are protected areas of natural water accumulation. In order to establish in the law a ban on allowing processes that lead to water loss in nature and landscape. In order to guarantee the sustainable development of municipalities in national parks and to mitigate the impact of the law on permanent residents in national parks. In order to establish in the law the guarantee of extensive farming in national parks, especially in the area of agricultural land, which was applied in the creation of national parks. In order to guarantee the preservation and restoration of culturally historical heritage of national parks and their protection zones in the law. In addition, the law provides for the guarantee of public use of national parks for tourism, recreation and education to an extent which corresponds to the least existing condition. Finally, that the law should specify the conditions under which it is possible to ban the entry of a person into nature, so that it does not become the favour of a public official, but for strong reasons of the conservation of nature enshrined in the law. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose first that we... I would like to make a motion to reject the amendment to the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act. I know this vote can only happen at the third reading of our law. Nevertheless, I would like this proposal to be registered. Secondly, I propose that the amendment to Act 114 on the conservation of nature and landscape to committees for renegotiation. Which, as we have seen on the previous points, is a proposal that can be voted on here at this second reading. [[16.20 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, since I fear that none of my proposals tabled here at the moment may be adopted, I will use the second reading institute of our law to table amendments to our law. My first amendment, which is included in the system and to which I will then sign up in a detailed debate, concerns, in fact, the general essentials in the law enshrined. My proposal in point 1 proposes in § 15 para. 3 to release the text "including ensuring the undisturbed course of natural events," which is a text which brings into our law the principle of non-abbreviation, without using the word without intervention at all. The second point of my amendment. In Article 17, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 I propose that the last sentence be replaced by the sentence: When a trip or route is reserved, the nature conservation authority shall determine the conditions relating to the extent, mode and time of movement on that route or route. In the draft law that the petitioner brings, there is basically a similar text, however, with the word "can" in it. That he could determine that. I don't think such a favor should be allowed in the law, and if so, so that the nature protection authority sets the conditions. In the third point of my Amendment No The application for the release of paragraph 2 in Section 18 states that territories which do not comply with the characteristics of the zones referred to in paragraph 1 may also be included in the individual nature conservation zones. 1 but their inclusion is necessary in order to maintain a uniform way of taking care of the zone and to achieve the objective of protecting the national park zone. The other paragraphs following him suggest renumbering. It is clear to me that there will be objections which will question my proposal, especially because, if it were done, it would, according to critics, prevent the zones from being a sort of solid, nicely rounded territory. I think, for this purpose, sufficient is the paragraph, which in the current draft law has number three, which makes it possible to include continuous areas within 5 hectares that do not meet the characteristics of the zone in the context of the consolidation of zones. The next point in my proposal concerns § 18a - the regime of the national park zones, in particular para. 1 which concerns the natural zone, i.e. the first, most valuable zone, the zone with the highest possible protection. Here I propose that the text presented in the amendment be replaced by the text: Only interventions that are not contrary to the objective of protecting this zone and the mission of the national park can be implemented in the natural zone. The following measures may also be implemented where their implementation is necessary to protect the lives and health of persons, to protect property or to protect nature. I'll read them in a minute, the proposed measures. Let me just remind you that in the original proposal, the text is different. There it is suggested that everything is forbidden, which could threaten nature conservation. I know that the Ministry itself proposes to make a logical change in the amendment adopted by the Committee on the Environment - what is not at risk. Some kind of logic can be said, but okay. I'm putting these points in a slightly different form: (a) To allow, in exceptional cases, interference against the spread of geographically non-originating plant species. (b) Firefighting and the implementation of preventive measures against fire. (c) Protection and maintenance of drinking water resources and maintenance and repair of water management infrastructure of municipalities. (d) Regulation of number states of cloven-hoofed game. (e) Measures to ensure the safety of visitors on tourist routes. (f) Maintenance and repair of the road network. (g) Interventions to protect stocks of specially protected species of plants or animals. (h) Monitoring or research that does not damage and does not alter the natural environment. (i) Marking of new and maintenance marked hiking, cross-country and cycling trails. (j) Restoring or improving the natural water regime. (k) Interventions to protect, restore and promote the ecological stability of forest ecosystems. Point 5 of my amendment concerns § 22a, which actually refers to forests in the national park and how they are handled. I propose to add a paragraph here. 3 as amended: When carrying out the care of forests listed in the natural and nature zone close to them, interventions to promote ecological stability and natural compositions of forest ecosystems are permitted in justified cases. I propose that the last paragraph 3 be referred to as paragraph 4. Here, I think it is necessary for the nature conservation authority, which manages the national park, to have the opportunity, in exceptional cases, such as the case of Kyrill, to perform interventions to promote environmental stability. Finally, my first amendment has point 6 which concerns Section 61, the pre-emptive right to property owned by anyone in the territory of the national park, where the provision therefore provides for the State to pre-empt the land. There is an exception in the law, the exception, when the pre-emption law might not be applied, was not applied, is on the built-up territory of the municipalities. I suggest that this exception, according to which the pre-emptive right should not be applied, should also apply to the pauseable areas of the municipalities. The pawnable area in the municipality is clearly defined by the construction law and it is the area set out in the municipality's zoning plan. The village's territorial plan is a document that we have also talked about here, I think, today, which is the only instrument of the community that she can regulate or, on the contrary, release her development to. It's a high political decision. The final place to decide is the municipal council. Before that, however, the proposal for a zoning plan must go through all possible places and be discussed there, including the nature conservation authorities that express themselves to it. So, of course, it is possible to regulate those pauseable areas in an agreement with the nature conservation authority as part of the negotiation of the zoning plan. Yet - which is why I propose that the pauseable areas be one of those from which the exception under the pre-emptive law can be applied. I think I've made enough of this proposal number one here. The reason, of course, is also in the written text that I put into the system. [[16.30 hours]] There is a draft number 2 that concerns the travel network in the national park. I note here that I have taken over this proposal as a proposal originally submitted by the Czech Tourist Club. In Šumava National Park or Šumava National Park, there is now a network of routes that are marked, maintained by their owners, whoever they are, and which, in my opinion, should be listed as an annex to the law. And here again, the Sumava is very specific. I do not propose that the network of trips be listed in the annex to other national parks, the other three, only in the case of the National Park of Šumava. I think it's such a specific national park in size, what in history, what in the settlement, what in importance it would deserve to have those paths listed in the proposal. I therefore propose, in point 1 of my proposal, that the text in Section 15d be changed and that, after the words "Annex 4', the text to this law has been added "graphical representation and a list of special purpose roads, forest roads and marked hiking routes are listed in Annex 5', so that the annex will contain a list of those routes. Furthermore, I propose that paragraph 2 be inserted in Section 16d, as amended: "The network listed in Annex 5 to this Act is maintained. Newly marked paths will be added to the list of designated accessible roads that are in the property of the Šumava National Park Administration, led by the Administration." The list will be publicly available. Finally, the last - the appendix, which contains graphical representation on the map, the map has two parts, the western Šumava and the southern Šumava respectively, and finally the second part of the annex is the list of paths, which is always next to the number, next to the name of the journey, contains the place where the journey begins, the place where the journey ends and determines its length. That's another proposal I'm making. Finally, my third amendment concerns § 20 para. 3, or at all § 20. This Section 20 concerns the Šumava National Park Council and the way in which this Council deals with key decisions that will be taken by the nature conservation authority, i.e. the park administration, the Ministry, in the park. Remember, that paragraph was the subject of some kind of media personalization. In the original version of the Act, the obligation was laid down for the nature conservation authority to agree with municipalities whose representatives are on the park council - and here it must be said that all 22 municipalities have their representatives in the park council - the basic documents: the care plan, the rules of visitation and other things. In the Legislative Council of the Government, however, it came to the House that the bill came to us, saying that instead of the word "negotiated," the word "negotiated" was "negotiated," not agreed with the municipalities, but discussed with the National Park Council. All of us who have dealt with some processes that have had their part in the negotiations with the state authorities know what the word "negotiated" means. Sometimes it is okay, sometimes the discussion takes place positively for the applicant, but it also happens often - and unfortunately the Šumava municipalities were often witnesses and participants in the discussion process, when their subjects were discussed, but they were somehow not respected. So it was a bit of a red rag, maybe a mine that was incorporated into the law, and which, as I have already said, is apparently removed in the draft of the Ministry, which has taken over the Committee on the Environment. The change there is that the text returns in the ministerial amendment, and therefore to the committee, to the word 'agreed'. But he'll make a deal with the board. The council has the following composition: both the 22 representatives of the municipalities and the representatives of the two regions on whose territory the national park is situated, and if it is a mountain park, it is a mountain service. And then there are other experts, other specialists, other representatives of various interests that the director of the National Park administration can appoint to the board. It's up to him to name him. Here it seems and there is a concern that those appointed members could outnumber the very members of the law existing members, i.e. representatives of municipalities and regions, and that they could very easily overvote them at the council meeting. This would, of course, lead to agreements that would record the forces behind this whole legal procedure, i.e. environmentalists, environmental activists, scientists who advocate environmental views. Therefore, I propose that Section 20 be amended as follows. Annex V.Part 2.41 (d) 3 is replaced by the following: The design of the national park zones, the design of the peaceful territories of the national park, the route and the route proposed to be reserved in the peaceful territories of the national park and the location proposed for reservation shall be the nature conservation authority of the national park obliged to agree with the representatives of the municipalities delegated to the Council pursuant to paragraph 2 (hereinafter referred to as the representatives of the municipalities/. The draft principles of national park care shall be agreed by the nature conservation authority with representatives of the municipalities in accordance with the procedure laid down in Section 38a. The following paragraph 4 is added to Section 20: If no agreement is reached pursuant to paragraph 3, the Council, through the Nature Protection Authority, shall without delay submit a conflict with the opinion of representatives of the municipalities of the Ministry of Environment, which, on the basis of the documents collected, shall amend the proposal. It shall inform the Council of the amendment. Finally, in § 38a, which deals with the procedure for examining the draft principles of care, which is now called a care plan, it will now be the principles of care, and which says: The nature conservation authority will evaluate the comments received within the period referred to in paragraph 3 and amend the draft principles of care. The settlement of comments received shall be made public by the nature conservation authority on its website and on the public administration portal. The amended design of the principles of care shall be agreed with the representatives of the municipalities. The agreed principles of care shall be submitted by the nature conservation authority to the Ministry of the Environment for approval. Finally, a new paragraph 5 is added to Section 38a after paragraph 4, which reads: If no agreement is reached pursuant to paragraph 4, the Council, through the Nature Protection Authority, shall without delay submit a conflict with the opinion of the representatives of the municipalities of the Ministry of Environment, which shall adjust the proposal on the basis of the documents collected. It shall inform the Council of the amendment. paragraphs 5 to 7 shall be referred to as paragraphs 6 to 8. So my change here is that instead of agreeing with the board, I propose that the nature protection authority should argue with representatives of municipalities who are delegated to the council in accordance with the procedure defined by the law in its paragraph 2 § 20. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that's it. Just to check in... yes, it's, I think, everything. Thank you for your attention. I am signed up for a detailed debate when I will then sign up for the proposals tabled here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u5	I thank Mr Jan Zahradník and we will continue. Mr Jaroslav Holík's point of order now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u6	Mr Zahradník, through Mr President, I very much appreciate your views, but allow two small factual points. I don't think the barking calamity was caused by Kyrill, which was created much earlier. It was created, say, by controversial wet drying, by channeling, by deepening the influx of the warm Vltava. Glory be to God, we're going back to those snakey tributaries today, and we've stopped the pointless drainage channels. So a healthy forest would certainly resist more. And the second thing I'm going to argue with is the extraction of those dry trees. I was in Sumava two weeks ago, and I have to say, where we left the trees standing, even if it looks very depressing, the young vegetation is much denser than where the dry trees fell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u7	I thank Mr Holík. And before we go any further, the Committee's rapporteur, Mr Klán, reports with priority rights. But, colleague, just a moment more, please. The apology came to the President of the Chamber of Deputies from the Minister of the Interior of Chovanec from 16.30 pm to the end of the day, Mrs Kovářová also apologizes until the end of the day and Mr Igor Jakubčík from 17.30 pm for working reasons. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u8	Thank you for the floor. Good day, Mr Vice-President, Minister, colleagues. I have exercised my priority rights as rapporteur for the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. As has been said here many times, the issue of this law, i.e. the hundred and twelve, is particularly related to Sumava and other national parks. I would like to read to you here in a certain way an amendment, which I will either put into the system, or I will read it in a detailed debate and it will relate to individual national parks, so that they have their own law in some way. First of all, the provisions of Paragraph 15 (1) of the EC Treaty. 5, which reads: "National parks and their protection zones are hereby declared by this law." are replaced by the following: § 15 paragraph - "National parks are declared by a separate law of the Czech Republic. National parks declared before the adoption of this law are national parks according to the law." The following paragraph 6 of Section 15 is added: "The national park notice act shall at least contain the name of the national park, the date on which the national park is established, its basic conditions and the limits of the park. Others are governed by this law, unless special protective conditions under Section 16a are also included in the law.' Secondly, the provisions in press 501 are deleted from Sections 15a, 15b, 15c and 15d. Third, it is deleted from print 501 § 16a, 16b, 16c and 16d. Fourthly, a new section 16a is set up, which reads: "Nearer protective conditions of national parks Bohemian Switzerland, Krkonoše National Park, Podyjí National Park, Šumava National Park and, where appropriate, other national parks, which will be established by law, are governed by laws on the declaration of a specific national park." Fifthly, in § 22 para. 1 "Forests in a national park are not economic forests" is replaced by "Forests in a national park are special destination forests." As I announced at the beginning of my speech, I will put this amendment into the system and apply to it in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u9	I thank Mr Klán. Now, Mr Junek, my colleague Bendl will be prepared, because Mr Votava has already cancelled his application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, at first reading, I evaluated the amendment as an important and important standard which, after long years, clearly addresses the status of national parks, unites their status and their care practices. So I would argue with my colleague Zahradník here at the very beginning that it is lex Šumava, that it is actually only a law that is made because of Šumava. However, in the first reading, I also said that it would be advisable to think about some things, discuss them, discuss them and possibly adjust them. The debate really was between first and second reading, it was quite abundant and there were really some common changes and they will be included in the amendment to the Committee on the Environment. I will merely say at random that, for example, the majority consensus was that the amendment in question or the law would withdraw the possibility to implement preventive fire-fighting measures, or the amendment to the committee addresses the transitional situation at the time of the Act's entry into force during the period of notification of the Act in such a way that the present second zone is not at risk. However, there are some things in this standard that have not been fully discussed or have not been a majority consensus. That is why I have decided to draw some attention to some things and to make an amendment to them. My amendments describe two or sum up such two basic areas. The first area of my amendments concerns individual zones, their spatial and temporal definitions. So the first of these amendments aims to establish a fixed time horizon until the long-term goal is reached, which means more than 50 percent of the natural zones, or we can say no hits. So let's make it clear when this will be achieved. Because as the law is written today, we set a goal, but we didn't say when it would be fulfilled. If it's in 10 years, 20, 50 or 100. And I think that it's wrong and that the time stamp should be contained there. In fact, the only thing we know today that nothing's gonna happen in national parks for 15 years is nothing. That's the only time horizon, actually. So this solves my amendment, which sets a time limit for each national park until the priority objective should be achieved. Another amendment then sets out the minimum size of natural zones, natural zones, at the time of the entry into force of the amendment to the Act, so that it is clear when the law enters into force, how many national parks form the first zones or without intervention zones, so that there is no dispute or doubt about it. Then there are only two such minor amendments in this area. For one thing, there is the possibility of changing in the future - so that there is no possibility of changing the zonation in the future in terms of making those zones that are the higher level of the zonation of the lower levels, that means, for example, not turning the natural zone into a zone of nature close to or a zone of the cultural landscape and so on. Another proposal is that we can possibly - we have the possibility of resonation, earlier changes in zonation, but, of course, this after some approval of the municipalities. So that's the one area that somehow tries to solve individual zones, and most importantly, as I was saying, their size and time horizons, until that priority state should be reached. [[16.50 hours]] The second area of amendments is the area of construction in national parks. It solves the construction, the construction principles, but also the management of land in the state's property. I was actually at first reading, but also at committee meetings and so on, asking the opponent how national parks are imagined, how specifically they imagine Sumava. I never actually got a specific answer. But at the same time, I had to ask myself, or define exactly what we would really want from those national parks and what they should look like. About three weeks ago, with the Committee on the Environment, we visited the protected landscape area of Brdy - I highly recommend to everyone - and there you realized when you went through the landscape that it was a landscape where not only did you not see human dwellings, chimneys and so on, but you don't see any transmitter, you don't see electrical wires. It's just a landscape where human activity is minimally affected. And this is how I imagine the landscape or nature of national parks. And the contrast, I think, if we take a look at Brdy and then, for example, we go to the National Park Krkonoše, where we would again expect this unspoiled landscape, so the contrast is quite large. So I think that where else, other than in national parks, we would expect, as visitors to nature, to be at least affected by human intervention, nature left to its own processes. There is one more thing I would like to say. Recently published in Statistics magazine and we published by the Czech Statistical Office, an article on construction and construction in 2015. This statistics clearly show that right after Prague Šumava is the second place in the Republic with the largest construction in 2015 per capita. So it is clear here that the pressure to build in national parks - let's talk about the Sumava in particular - is quite large. And I think that we should somehow face this pressure, so that the landscape really remains a natural landscape. So that is what my other amendments are all about. One of them says that there should be a ban on the disposal of land owned by states throughout the territory of national parks. Which, today, the law allows state land to be sold in the pawned and pawned territories of the municipalities. I think that, if we want to have as much control as possible of what is happening in national parks, it would be right for us to control as many national parks as possible, and it would probably not be okay for us to get rid of land and land as possible. That's one of those suggestions. Another is that the expansion of the built-up and stopable territory of municipalities is possible only in justified cases, for urgent reasons of other public interest significantly prevailing over the interest of conservation of nature and landscape. The last proposal is that buildings in the open landscape in national parks should be allowed on the basis of an exemption granted to the management of the national park. So these are all proposals that are really trying in some way to prevent human buildings or other objects from expanding more and more into the landscape of national parks. So these are briefly summarised by my amendments. These are, in my opinion, amendments that seek to protect nature from human activity as much as possible and thus make it attractive and interesting. I say that quite frankly. That's how I see it, and in my opinion, those national parks are interesting, attractive, and that's what we should expect from them. I've already said here once that I have asked, for example, colleagues of Zahradník, but also representatives of the mayors of the villages in Šumava, as they actually imagine the national parks, or specifically the Šumava National Park here. In fact, I did not see the answer, and it was not until later that I was given an idea of the amendments that were being read. First of all, it has been a much discussed proposal tabled by Mr Klán on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. He was here explaining what happened. That they were actually proposals from the mayors of Sumava. That's where we'll find the answers, what the idea is probably. That the proposal contained, among other things, the possibility of selling public land in national parks throughout the so-called Cultural Landscape Zone. So there would be a really big risk that a relatively large part of the state's land - I don't want to say prevailing, but rather large - we could theoretically sell sometime in the future. For example, the proposal included wanting to abolish the pre-emptive law of the state throughout the cultural landscape zone. But there are other things. Furthermore, as I have read, seen or heard other proposals from Mr Zahradník. For example, cross out the basic goal of national parks. This means ensuring the undisturbed course of natural events in parts of the territory, implementing forestry measures in the most valuable zones of national parks and so on. Well, that gives me an answer. It seems to me that the idea is that the Šumava National Park, or national parks in general, should be more of a cultural, recreational landscape, where there will be a large number of cycling paths, perhaps some amusement parks, sports sites and so on. It is, of course, a legitimate idea. I'm not taking it. However, it certainly isn't my idea. And it's certainly not my idea that national parks are a territory from which everyone can sort of grab their piece for themselves and build an object on it and gradually lose the very interesting landscape. So I don't want national parks like that, that's not how I imagine them. Therefore, on the one hand, I support the proposed bill and, at the same time, I would like to make it even a little bit tougher. On this point are my proposed amendments, which I have read into the system, and the explanatory reports are described in detail, and I will then sign up to them in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u11	Thank you, Mr Junek. We have three factual points ahead of us, Mr Klán, Mr Zahradník and Mr Votava. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u12	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, colleagues. Let me respond to Mr Junek through you. He said it wasn't Lex Šumava. You know, we've been talking about this Sumava for a long time. I have been in this Chamber of Deputies for several years, a second term, and only Sumava has always been the stumbling block. No other national park. That is why we have just proposed that individual national parks be excluded from this bill. Because if we open this 114 all the time and for whatever reason, we always go into this vicious circle where Sumava really comes out like a vicious circle that we're going to be in. So even the media say it's Lex Šumava, even though it's not true, because of course the law has more impact than just on Šumava. But there is a need to talk about Sumava; it is necessary to clarify the position of the municipalities. I have also spoken to the mayors of Sumava, I have even mentioned the amendments that were in the system at one time, but we have already made it clear here at the beginning of this meeting, at this second reading, as it was. We discussed, found some points of contact, and they were reflected in the resolution in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. And I will, of course, defend that. And, of course, even then, in a detailed debate, I will justify the amendment tabled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u13	I thank Mr Klán. Now, Mr zahradník's factual remark, Mr Votava will be prepared for the factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u14	Mr Vice-President, I have a few things. First of all, I would like to remind you that all representatives of the South Bohemia Region voted in favour of this declaration by the representative of the South Bohemia Region with one exception. Big support. Second, to my colleague Holík. I didn't say anything about cutting down in any part of my act. The most was for the krejčí and Bursík. Nobody wants to cut down those dry trees, of course. We want to help nature develop beneath those dried trees. To my colleague Junek. He asks what form the municipalities actually imagine. Come on, the resemblance of the Šumava National Park, as both municipalities and both regions imagined, was materialized in the Senate Bill on the Šumava National Park. We discussed this in detail in the seminars, in plenary, in committees, and unfortunately, we rejected this proposal. It was all there. And finally, for the last time, what they say is that we want to concrete Šumava, we want to have cycle paths everywhere, golf courses everywhere, that we want to sell her out. It's not like that. No Šumava municipality has any development project today. Everything was killed, they don't want anything like that, they just want to live and make a living in Sumava.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u15	I thank Mr Zahradník for his time. Now, Mr Václav Votava's factual comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to respond to my colleague Junek through you. He obviously has the idea that Sumava should be such an impeccable wilderness. That would probably be best for him, the most ideal. I'm not taking his vision away from him. But there are also people living in Sumava, my colleague, there are municipalities and there are cadastrals in the area of the park, these people also want to live, so we need to look at these people as well. It is often slipped, whether it was mentioned here by Mr. Zahradník, that the proposals presented here by the Plzeň Region's representativeship in accordance with the South Bohemia were the Senate proposal that it was opening up a field for developers. That's nonsense, there was no such thing. We want to protect the landscape, but wisely, so that people can live there. You mentioned Brdy, too, CHKO Brdy. But we fought for Brdy to open up, so that the army would leave here, so that it would benefit the municipalities, because they also have cadastrals, people also live there, or people live nearby, and they were bound by the restrictive conditions, but also to allow tourists there. That's true. So if you want the wilderness again, the way you imagine it, when you say you like it there, that there's nothing at all, then maybe it's wrong that there's no signal, there's no reception for cell phones. Well, I guess he's gonna have to stand up there for that, because if the tourists come in and something happens there, someone has to call for help, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u17	Mr. Ambassador, you've been signed up for a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u18	Wilderness is a nice thing, certainly, we encourage the protection of the landscape, but to serve the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u19	Don't make me break the rules of procedure. Mr Junek's point of fact, then we will continue with Mr Bendl. And I beg you to observe the time to make a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u20	Thank you. Then I will only go to Mr Votav. I certainly didn't say in my performance that I wanted people not to be in national parks or that I wanted to drive them out of there. I'm aware that there are villages, that they live there, no one's picking up. But I certainly didn't say I wanted a wilderness without people. And, yes, we're opening the wilderness to those people, too, and that's what the law allows. Specifically, in Sumava, the wilderness will certainly open up to more people than it has ever been. It's okay. Well, that's just so we understand each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u21	Thank you. Another factual comment by Jakubčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u22	Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, we'll open the Šumava. We'll open the Sumava to tourists, but we'll shut down, we'll concrete the people who live there. And I think that's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u23	Thank you. We are now continuing with the debate, Mr Petr Bendl signed in, and a colleague, Mr Kolovratník, will be prepared. Before my colleague Bendl gets to the counter, I'll load up the apologies. Tomio Okamura from 17.00 to the end of the day, Mr Šarapatka to the end of the day and Mrs Putnová between 17 and 19.00. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u24	Good day, colleagues and colleagues, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Let me also say a few words about this unimportant bill and perhaps even the sentences that fell here from my previous speakers. I, together with my colleagues from the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, have met with the mayors concerned in the territory of the National Park of Šumava to discuss what it brings them, or what it takes away from them this legislative proposal. And I've heard from them basically the same thing as the regional council across the political spectrum. After all, it was presented here by a Member, a South Bohemia MP, former Governor Jan Zahradník, where across the political spectrum people who are responsible for the territory, people who live there and who are not at all prevented from opening the park to tourists, and also do not prevent nature from being protected because those people do not live there for 14 days, live there their families or families for hundreds of years and have no interest in making nature and the quality of nature worse there in any way. They're interested in staying there, and they're interested in living there. Many of the sections that are here, and they are named in detail by Honza Zahradník, so I will not go back to this so that I do not delay, hinder normal life in the territory in which these people have lived for a very long time. And when I listen to my colleague Votava here, I believe his words that people living in southern Bohemia need to be thought of, and it will then appear in those specific amendments, how we will actually vote. It will show whether or not we will hear the views of the representatives of the region. And how much we listen to him. Many of the amendments that I made at the meeting of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, for which I was motivated by the mayors, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, did not pass. I must say, that's a shame. Mr Zahradník has proposed a number of these here as a second-reading Member and we will see how the Chamber of Deputies will finally stand up to them. Because the law, the way it's set, basically drives these people out of that territory. He says to everyone, "You can't build a brick here anymore, you can't build a family house like a family or a family who's lived there for a long time. There is a significantly limited management. [[17.10 hours]] The Minister knows that I have intersected him several times because of that paragraph 61, which says that the state will put seals on people's property in the territory of national parks, where the state will secure a kind of pre-emptive right. The minister wrote to me that it's been there since 1992, so why couldn't it be there again? I wasn't there in 1992, and I don't think we should touch people's property like that. That if the state is interested in buying something when one of them sells something, it should make them an offer, but do not give them fillings on the cadastral on their property, that they are obliged to sell their property to the state if they want to sell it in the territory concerned by the national park. That's what I think is not part of the law. I don't think the state should restrict the handling of property in this way. It is enough that it is limited by other regulations. It restricts the management, restricts the movement of people in that territory. But to give them fillings on their properties, that they are obliged to offer them first to the state, if they want to sell them, and then only if the state changes its mind within 60 days, then someone else will be able to buy it or they will be able to sell it to someone else, I consider it something that does not belong to this century and this political culture. And if someone put it there in 1992, then they made, for themselves, a huge mistake. It's not supposed to be there, and it's not necessary. On the contrary, we should trust more self-government and go across from them in this regard and not restrict people's lives in this way. Because it has nothing to do with protection. After all, we are able to make a legislative adjustment to how someone has or has no one to behave in that territory. And we should do that if the state says it's going to limit someone's management of their assets, it should compensate them for that kind of management. Maybe financially, maybe otherwise. If the state is interested in doing something about foreign property and restricting it, it should, in my deep conviction, look for a way to compensate these people for such loss. I took the liberty of filing an amendment to the system under number 4416. I will then sign up for it in a detailed debate. This is my only amendment - because I support Mr Jan zahradník's proposals, so I did not consider it important to put the same here several times. But I took the liberty of making this motion. It concerns the removal of the act, when the State will limit the management of private property. I consider this to be a bad solution, unnecessary and in a democratic society, more than rude. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u25	I thank Mr Petr Bendl. Another factual point by Mr Václav Votava, then duly signed up by Mr Kolovratník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I don't want to delay. My colleague Bendl's performance. Well, I don't know if the law can be corrected by amendments. Otherwise, of course, what my colleague Zahradník said, but what you said, I can only sign it. And I say that as a coalition MP, a government MP. I have always supported because I am a member of the Plzeň Region's representativeship, as some of us sitting here in the hall supported the proposal of the Plzeň Region's representative, who was here and who fell under the table. I also supported the Senate's proposal, although it was not entirely perfect, but it covered more reality, which is in Sumava. So I don't know. I don't think it can be fixed. And I am also prepared to vote against this law, and colleagues from my faction know that. And I guess I won't be alone. It will also be other Members from our region, but not only from our side, I assume from other parties who voted in favour of the Plzeň Region's representative's proposal, because we would also deny ourselves.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u27	I thank Mr Votav. And before my colleague Kolovratník, I'll read the apologies. From 5:30 p.m. Jaroslav Holík and from 5:45 p.m. to the end of the meeting day, Mrs Matušovská. Mr kolovratník now. Mr. Michal Kučera will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u28	Thank you for the word. Good afternoon, Mr President, dear two members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. My amendment may fall a bit in the shadow of the debates on national parks and on the big issues that are certainly related to nature conservation. Anyway, I would like to draw your attention to him and ask for any future support both in committees and in third reading. I am, by my amendment No. 4317, to which I will sign up in a detailed debate, I specify the wording of § 56 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (c). I'm not gonna quote it all now. It's a paragraph, virtually. paragraph which defines the individual possible granting of exemptions from nature protection for public health or public security interests and other urgent reasons for the prevailing public interest. I've been approached with this proposal, and there's no reason to hide the source because it's completely open and transparent. I have been approached by the Office of Government Agent for Socially or economically disadvantaged regions, i.e. Moravian-Silesian and Ústecký Region. Perhaps many of you will know the name of Mr. Docent Jiří Cieńciała. So I discussed with his office, the opinion was also supported by the representatives of the economic chambers, and we find very simply that in interpretation practice, where some investors, developers are preparing projects to bring employment, new jobs, and thus reduce unemployment, to be precise, to run into problems and an inaccurate definition, respectively. officials at the Ministry of the Environment come across an inaccurate interpretation of what is actually the public interest, reasons of social and economic nature, etc. So my novelty or proposal is actually a kind of clarification when we're putting a new, more accurate text into this paragraph, that there'll be reasons for, in particular, reduced unemployment. Thus, a clear definition of a project that fights unemployment and brings new jobs. I see this only as a technical specification of one of the paragraphs which should help at least these two disadvantaged regions. So much for an introduction. Of course, I'm prepared to explain the intention to all of you or to hand it over. And as I have announced, I will report to him in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u29	Thank you, Mr Kolovratník. Mr Kučera no longer insists on his application, in which case Mr Vilímec is next. A colleague of Zemek will be ready. Before my colleague Vilímec arrives, I'll ask him to wait. The President of the Chamber of Deputies has received an apology for the rest of the day from his colleague Milan Urban and Mr Zlatuška. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u30	Dear Vice-President, I am also one of the representatives of the Plzeň Region and I am quite familiar with the situation in the Šumava National Park in particular. I have carefully studied, at least at the moment, the amendments adopted by the Guarantee Committee and the Public Administration Committee and some other amended amendments, although others will still be tabled in a detailed debate. At least judging by the amendments from the guarantee committee, if I look away from some rather technical legislative changes, many of them will not pass. Perhaps only to clarify that it will not actually interfere with the definition of zones 15 years after the entry into force of the first general measure. Which is what the Minister of the Environment promised in Sumava. However, the Committee on Public Administration logically proposes that both the zoning and the principles of national park care be issued by decree. This is also appropriate from the point of view of the extent of restrictions on property rights, as well as rights arising from special laws, legal uncertainty in relation to the anticipated long term for judicial review. And then on the matter that has already been discussed here at first reading and I think also the Minister appointed as perhaps a matter for discussion, that is the confusion of the word "negotiate" important documents with the National Park Council, for "negotiating" with the National Park Council. However, unlike the Public Administration Committee, the Guarantee Committee actually replaces this seeming libation or improvement to the National Park Board or its competences with a different instrument, by supplementing the new paragraph in Section 20. If there is no agreement, the board will immediately submit the conflict with its opinion to the Ministry of Environment, which the proposal can amend on the basis of a gathering of documents. I wonder how many times and to what extent this provision will apply if this proposal passes. [[17.20 hours]] In general, the debate is conducted more or less on the one hand among the supporters of relatively exclusive - I will add to this an extreme - a view of what the Šumava National Park should look like, or national parks in general, and then, on the other hand, among those who seek a certain balance between nature's natural protection. No one wants to devastate nature or in the National Park of Sumava or in the Brdy National Park or in other parks, but in addition they try to find a certain modus vivendi for the people who live there because it is their home, they were born there and have no idea that they will be prevented in full life in the conditions or in the home where they were born. I generally consider it a mistake that the Šumava National Park is also part of the built-up or stopable territory of the municipalities. On the one hand, the state of this bill comes with a vision of the target state, and Mr Junek - I respect his logical view - repeated here, with a vision of the target state of the so-called wilderness on the prevailing part of the national park territory, which I consider to be very problematic especially in the case of the Šumava National Park. On the other hand, the state does not actually offer anything to municipalities and citizens living there for many restrictions on property rights. The Senate proposal and previous proposals from the level of the regions in the National Park of Šumava tried at least to incorporate a compensation mechanism, if I remember correctly, in the form of a contribution to municipalities for the so-called difficult management of their territory, or, for example, by abolishing the exemption of the State from the payment of real estate tax in the territory of the national park. There was a proposal like that. We learn from the Government's opinion on the Senate proposal that the contribution of CZK 500 at the time proposed for one hectare is considered non-systemic by the Government with an impact on the state budget. The government also pointed out that municipalities in the territory of other national parks than Sumava can also have difficult management of their territory. But so be it. When we look at the current government amendment to the law, it does not only concern the Šumava National Park, but it concerns all national parks and there is no compensation here. At the time, we were discussing the amendment to the Act of Budget Tax Determination, and again it was rather negatively reflected when I looked at the results and calculations of the Ministry of Finance, the future income of municipalities in the Šumava National Park. It turned out that many municipalities in the Šumava National Park, which had so far benefited from the settlements of local entrepreneurs, were losing the so-called motivational component. And this is not Mr. Bakala, who no longer has a permanent residence in Modrava, but also other entrepreneurs who work there, who have open pensions and so on. I believe that this amendment to the law is not appropriate at least for the conditions of the largest national park, the Šumava National Park. I also have to remember literally floods of e-mails exactly the same text, only with another picture of the so-called intact landscape probably in the National Park of Šumava. With every other e-mail I received, my willingness to support this law began to be limited to zero. Such artificially created pressure is to be stood up and appealed to common sense. Nobody wants to take out Šumava. Not even those who call for balance. No way. Or other national parks. In the case of Šumava and in the case of other national parks, they are beautiful pieces of nature that deserve protection. They should be passed on to future generations in a naturally intact state. However, if visitors do not go to Sumava, people will not live there, which naturally brings the vision of the wilderness with it, it will only become a dead environment, an environment in my opinion unattractive, perhaps good only for some scientific research. When the municipalities agreed more years ago - and if it were not for the activities of the municipalities in 1992, then the Šumava National Park may not even have come up - they were promised much. Greater attractiveness of their territory for visitors, financial advantages for municipalities and opportunities for local entrepreneurs, in the outlook and various European subsidies to help people living in the park. A lot of it didn't happen. Maybe there was no such thing. Unfortunately, only many years of dragging took place the village with ecologists or some park representatives. They mostly changed according to the political and, above all, the professional background of one or the other Minister of the Environment. Park representatives with a balanced view of the need for an agreement between the extreme protectionist concept and the natural interests of the living local population mostly had to eventually leave their seats, have been called away or have been taken away. This is the current state of affairs in the Šumava National Park, and this amendment to the law, in my opinion and my great conviction, is not a legislative move towards any necessary agreement. Once again, the idea of a national park as a wilderness on the transported range of the territory wins, and the opinions of the municipalities are in principle passed away or are not at least taken into account. You know, it's kind of hard to reach a compromise. That's what we know in the twenty-four years of this debate. It is indeed a difficult task. It is much more difficult than simply making this or that force decision, whether we wrap it up in measures of a general nature or simply in decrees. I don't want to debate here anymore in general. I myself have no amendment prepared. There's gonna be a lot of amendments here anyway. But if, even at committee level, and I don't see it from those resolutions, there is no obvious consensus in the view of the functioning of national parks, I am actually joining... And if it is not the will to seriously debate with the municipalities about their idea of what the national parks should really look like, then I join the proposal made by my colleague Zahradník to reject this proposal at third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u31	I thank Mr Vilímc. Mr Petr Bendl is reporting with a point of fact. Before he arrives, I will make an apology to Minister Herman from today's meeting until the end of the day. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u32	I'm sorry, I forgot to ask the Minister. Since the cadastral has not yet been given seals to those people on their property, anyone who somehow manages the property, whether they are farmers or private persons, maybe sometimes they take a mortgage or take a business loan and stop their property. If I have a state-owned seal that can't be stolen, does that mean I can't even guarantee this property for a loan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u33	I thank Mr Bendl. We continue with Mr Václav Zemek's speech, Mr Klučka's colleague will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. I'll follow up on my previous speakers. There were a lot of thoughts, a lot of different opinions. I listened very carefully. What bothers me a little bit is that once again we only slide to one national park, even though the amendment concerns, and I remind you, it's called all national parks. It is a general regulation that sets and unifies the different rules in the announcement of national parks, which have been announced in different time stages. I've been working with the law for, like, 20 years. I had the privilege of getting to know the original lawmaker, who was born in 1992. And I don't want to say that I'm some kind of expert on this law, but to some extent, it needs to be understood. From my point of view, this amendment is simply a significant step forward, whether with me, for example, colleagues who have performed before me, may not agree, or who may agree, but it is simply a step forward from my point of view, for the better. Of course, the media shortcut - and given that the problems are mainly in the Sumava National Park, the debate has come down to the Šumava, although such practical things, such practical problems that are being solved in Šumava, so, frankly, in this novel, power is not affected. This is a matter of practical conservation of nature, the practical application of the law, not the general wording. [[17.30 hours]] But I, in the course of those years, when we're talking about this Sumava, whether it was in the last parliamentary term or earlier, in the earlier period, so what's such a basic problem is the different ideas of different groups about how this park is supposed to look. And I don't think we'll ever find a 100% match on that. That's just the way it is. Of course, it is appropriate to find some consensus, some intersection, where the nature should probably have, and in that we all agree, a little more. Of course Šumava, if we only bring it up to this national park, it is big enough to have both wild nature and sensible tourism and so on. And I think from my point of view - forgive my point of view, you may not agree with me, I am here to give my experience to the good that everyone does not have to take behind a coin - but I believe that in this text, which contains an amendment to the Committee on the Environment, it gives all those groups and all those interests the opportunity. I have noticed such expressions here - I know that this debate is sometimes a little heated, everyone is trying to defend theirs, like that they are residents - perhaps I misunderstood - being expelled from the Šumava, or not being able to survive there, so of course it is not. Of course, the park brings some restrictions, that's what it is, let's just say. And the more valuable the locations, the more restrictions. On the other hand, the park brings great opportunities, and I think every resident who lives there is aware of that. And I don't think there's a whole lot of suffering going on and there's always a deal to be made. In Sumava, there has been a great distrust in the past between the state administration of nature, communities, inhabitants, and today we are kind of reaping the bitter fruits of this misunderstanding. And I can see it during all these meetings. What did not come out here is that there was an effort, and it is the credit of the Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, to sharpen the edges, and, on this basis, round tables were held, where representatives of all interest groups, municipalities were invited, for example, Mr Šubrt, a well-known civil association, were there both conservationists and various opposite associations, or opposite associations, which are more likely to have the other approach, and there was really an effort to sharpen the edges and solve problems. And most of the problems or contradictions were then included in the amendment. As my colleague Zahradník mentioned here, for example, the term "negotiate" was included there, or for example the issue of fire protection, it was also included in the amendment. What else has fallen here and what I have to dispute a little bit, and I think we're going to disagree with Mr. Bendl here. He kind of criticized the pre-emptive law of the state on the land. I guess I see it a little differently. On the one hand, in the blink of an eye, we want to expropriate land for example for the construction of roads, motorways and line constructions, which is kind of okay with us, we're okay with that, and maybe we're okay with that, and, on the other hand, we don't like the pre-emptive law, where the state ensures that valuable land, if the owner wants to sell it, doesn't end up in uncalled-upon hands. And I think that's right, the pre-emptive law. You may not agree with me, but if we take cultural monuments, for example, we take it that way, and why not take it that way in the case of natural wealth? I don't think it's against anything that it should be, but I understand there's another opinion on this matter. I personally perform here, and no one will be surprised as a supporter of the novel, and I'm sure I'll support it at the third reading. I have not tabled an amendment myself, because the text that came from the Committee on the Environment, that is, the comprehensive amendment, I think, is sufficient at the moment. And as I said before, I don't think everyone will ever be granted, and the practice will show. But I personally see a great step forward against the old standard and the various negotiations that have taken place over time, and I think there's finally a chance for us to make a little deal on this Sumava and sort of make a deal. For example, a similar debate took place in Germany when the Bavarian Forest National Park was set up, I think it was similarly rich and also wild in places like this, but today I think that most of those interest groups and parties, municipalities, cities, civic associations are satisfied, and I think it could also be such an example for us that it might not end badly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u35	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr Zemek. Mr Jan Zahradník, Mr. Jan Zahradník, is now making a point of fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u36	Thank you, Mr President. I'm just gonna take your help to my colleague Zemek, when he ended up so well with that parallel to the Bavarian Forest National Park. The park is one-third and there are no villages on its territory. And those communities that are around, they very often raise their voices. And they are very effective and very united in protesting over excessive environmental interventions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u37	Thank you. Another duly registered member is Mr Václav Klučka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u38	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. My colleague Zemek, here when he spoke to me, said something about fire protection. I just want to draw attention to the fact that, in a detailed debate, I am going to report to an amendment specifying matters relating to fire protection and, in a way, replacing the current resolution of the Committee on the Environment in paragraphs 7 and 17 to this law. In a detailed debate, I will make a simple statement on this, so that a separate vote on this is not forgotten. Because this whole situation concerns preventive measures against the emergence of fires. After the discussion that was with the Ministry of the Environment, we have come to a joint proposal on how to define the preventive measures, because they do not only concern measures against the emergence of fires as such, for example, any use of open fire or the ban on the setting up of fire in parks, but they also concern finding places for the drawing of fire-fighting substances, i.e. water, searching for suitable watercourses, transitibility of forest roads, and especially in their way of detecting the fire risk and danger, because this is a little different than in the common woods and it is also necessary to count on the processing of operational documentation to overcome the intervention. So that is the justification for the amendment, which I will introduce you to in detail in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u39	I thank Mr Klučka and so far the last one entered into the general debate is the rapporteur, Robin Böhnisch. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u40	I hope it lasts that way. Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. I have entered into a general debate so that I do not abuse the position of rapporteur. I would like to make a few comments on the general debate that has been held. I apologize for the fact that maybe the speech, the speech, will not have one logical line, but I will gradually be on the various topics that my previous speakers have touched. To prove it's not Lex Šumava, I'll start in the Giant Mountains because that's where I come from. From the village, better said from the town, which is unique in the Czech Republic in its own way, because it has three Natura 2000 territories in its cadastral area. Nature park, in the future probably a natural monument Hrádeček, the flow of the river Pure, where the coffin stonecutter spread, and just the Krkonoše National Park. Our village, our towns is a real gateway to the Giant Mountains, although it is not as well known mountain resort as other Krkonoše villages. [[17.40 hours]] It must be said that Krkonoše villages are not part of the national park, but most of them are completely surrounded by the territory of the national park, and, as they say, better to see once than a hundred times heard, it must be said that probably no Krkonoše village has any major problem with the neighborhood with the Krkonoše National Park. After all, the only reminder of the current amendment from the mayors of Krkonoše that I spoke to was the well-known thing in the text "negotiated" or "negotiated" that the Committee on the Environment addresses in its amendment. Once to see more than a hundred times to hear is also valid for visiting the National Park of Šumava. Many colleagues took advantage of the offers of various field excursions and could see that it does not look like in the black and white film of King Šumava in Šumava. The Šumava municipalities are doing well, they are at the head of the tables as regards their budgets, the Šumava municipalities live, the Šumava municipalities are being built, children's playgrounds and sports grounds are being created in the Šumava municipalities, and the Šumava municipality does not really seem to be in any way in a fundamental way interfering with the Šumava national park. After all, there is no longer a single block of 22 Šumava communities that would reject the current amendment on conservation of nature and landscape. I would even say that these loud authorities or the loud representatives of the Šumava communities today are a minority. Nevertheless, the public debate and debate here in the House are always burdened by the mention of Šumava municipalities. People live in Šumava villages, municipalities work and there is no reason for this to happen differently in the future even after the adoption of this amendment. I, too, as Chairman of the Environment Committee, received a letter from Mr. Governor Zimola of the South Bohemia Region, including the resolution of the representative of the South Bohemia Region. And I have to say, when I started reading that letter to the South Bohemia Region, the South Bohemia Governor, he excited me because I read the points of what the South Bohemia Council wants. My colleague Zahradník mentioned some 12 points that are expected from the law: It is to be modern, it is to be stable, it is to be conservative to some extent, it is to be nonideological. I thought great, the South Bohemia Council wants the House exactly what the law is. We meet all the criteria the South Bohemia Council wishes. That is why I found the confusing conclusion of the letter, where before the second reading, before the adoption of the amendments, the South Bohemia Council wishes us to reject the bill at first reading. As I said, it was confusing and unfortunately I have to disappoint the South Bohemia Council. I think the law is good and that it deserves to go through the whole legislative process and that it will actually fulfil the 11 or 12 points as defined by the representativeship of the South Bohemia Region. I'm sure the law is non-ideological. I would not dare say that about the letter of representatives of the South Bohemia Region or about some of the emails of the Šumava 21 association, which is repeatedly a sort of roundabout of empty phrases, which is unable to define what the signatories of such letters actually want. After all, even on round tables, organized by the Committee on the Environment, were two and lasted about five hours each, on which it was very difficult to find out really specific requirements of some authorities on the good wording of the law on conservation of nature and landscape. Mr. Vilímec mentioned the letters that facilitated the Rainbow Movement. I have to warn him that if he was interested in reading at least some of them, he would have found out that they didn't have the same text. Yes, they bothered, there were too many, there were big photos, filling our mailboxes, I would even say that such activity was not very desirable for this law. However, I am pleased that the people who wrote to us took the job that each of these e-mails was the original. I appreciate that. However, I also appreciate our computer science, which then diverted the other e-mails somewhere else. So I don't hold up any longer, just two short notes. A colleague, Zahradník, has proposed a renegotiation of the law for a renegotiation in the Committee on the Environment. I would beg to differ with such a procedure because the committee focused on this law on two round tables, focused on it on its subcommittee on the conservation of nature and landscape, devoted to it at its proper meeting in the National Park Podyjí and he also devoted himself to this law a comprehensive, large seminar by the Ministry of Environment, which took place here in the Chamber of Deputies. And last point, the last point concerns a number of amendments that gradually appear in the system. Many of them are heading to one, unfortunately it doesn't have the wording, someone probably didn't have the text - upload one single sentence to the system to § 15d. It would be sufficient to record: § 15d reads: "The National Park of Šumava is deleted." We could save a large part of the detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u41	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now with priority rights, the Minister, then with a factual remark, Mr Jan Zahradník. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I won't keep you long. First, my colleague Böhnisch said a lot of things that I wanted to say, so let me really just make a few comments on what was said. I am not at all angry and I do not take personally the fact that colleagues from Šumava feel, first of all, obliged by the resolution of the regional council and that here they say things that I think they really believe. However, from my own experience, which I have done in more than two years in this position and in particular in the direction of Sumava, I dare say that it is not true, and with all seriousness I can say that it is not true that these municipalities would not be spoken to. There's a lot of talking to these communities. The question is, how many people are real and if they're able to say what they want. They're able to say relatively very well what they don't want, although even there isn't quite clear, but what they want is complicated. And it really makes an impression, and I think that, let's be honest, you Šumavák who live there, I believe that you won't argue with me that these municipalities aren't even backwards, they're not, let's say, economically underlined, I would say, rather the other way around, and there really are a number of things that have been promised in the creation of the park, that they'll have access to special subsidies, which they also have from the European Union, that there will be support for business, which is, because I say again and I believe that you can confirm to me, those municipalities are beautiful, they're repaired. And if Mr Vilímec here says that it is a mistake that the territory of the municipalities is also built up in the national park, then I say to him: you are right, my colleague, by your means, Mr President. It's really a mistake. And it happened historically, and now it's all about what we can do about it. [[17.50 hours]] And here I have repeatedly said the thing to which I am applying, and I promise her that if there is an interest from the municipalities, we are certainly prepared to discuss the possibility of exiting municipalities from the national park in terms of their built-up territory. Because I really think that this conflict is created here because the communities are their built-up territory. But on the other hand, it doesn't mean that it solves the problems, that someone just wants to build a lift, virtually. some terminal lift in the first zone or part of the first zone of the national park, because it is no longer part of the built-up territory of the village. And I would really like to know if this possibility is - and the municipalities know it well that there is - how many municipalities use the opportunity to get out of the national park with their built-up territory, because I dare say that the national park, and not only Šumava, but all national parks, is a great marketing brand and the municipalities are very happy to use the marketing brand in their marketing accommodation, catering etc., simply staying for tourists. There are millions of tourists coming to Sumava every year, and I dare say that this year there will be even more of them in connection with what is happening in the world and what are the risks to tourism, so I think that Šumava will be completely crowded with tourists this year, when I think that the municipalities may no longer like it. Definitely the accommodation capacities, I dare say, although I am not Sibyla, will be sold out at least after the summer season and I think at least by autumn. So it's not true that the communities are suffering significantly, and I'm really talking to the municipalities and the mayors. The problem is that we want to hear from them specifically, what they don't really agree with, because what they don't agree with and what they wanted, so I'm convinced that the bill is that there's stability, at least the 15-year moratorium on zoning, that it's not there - and on the contrary I know that my colleague Junek and others would just want it to be a targeted increase in the wilderness, and we're not putting it there because we really think that natural processes shouldn't be ordered, and we're humble to nature, because I really realize that what happened after Kirill is something that has a major negative effect, virtually. It's more from that psychological point of view, not so natural, and that these people really aren't, like, Kirill and the subsequent crust squabbles, so maybe we wouldn't be dealing with this problem here. So, my dear colleagues, I think that the law deserves to be discussed further, the amendment proposal. A terrible lot of work has been done on him, hundreds of people have spoken to him. There are not so many laws that would be discussed with so many people, stakeholdery, as is nicely said in Czech, i.e. those interest entities, from municipalities, regions, experts, academics, NGOs etc., and it is clear that it does not have all, respectively. there has been no consensus in all cases. I think it couldn't, because - as I think my colleague Vilímec said - consensus with everyone or everyone is very complicated. But I think he deserves the law, or I'm convinced he should move on and be voted on. And I'm convinced and I'm sure that the law against the version that's today is an improvement for Sumava, of course, for other areas, for other national parks, because there are some rules that aren't there yet. And I dare say that if this law did not pass, the current state, not only of the protection of the national park, but also of what is towards the municipalities and the possibilities of municipalities and the competence of municipalities, is just worse than what I propose in that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u43	Thank you, Minister. I now have three factual points - first Mr Zahradník, then Mr Kučera, then Mr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u44	Mr Vice-President, colleagues, first of all, I would like to comment on the position of the Šumava municipalities on the amendment of the law. I was at the General Meeting of the Association of Sumava Communities last week, and I must say that their refusal to amend Law 114 is significantly majority. Major majority. Maybe there's one community that's out of line for the united position, but that's it. Secondly, I am irritated by the truth of what the Minister said here again, that those Šumava communities don't know what they want, that they are some kind of imprudent little children who just know what they don't want and don't know what they want. And I repeat again: the Senate law, the Senate bill was created in cooperation with the municipalities and represented their absolutely uniform position on what the National Park of Šumava municipalities want. And the Minister's saying that the municipalities in Sumava are repaired, and he's building it as if it were something suspicious that should disqualify them in your eyes, so I'm asking you not to let this affect you. And three. I know that environmentalists want the National Park of Sumava as the only option where they can watch the wilderness for decades and centuries in advance. Maybe they'll do it for ten, twenty years, maybe they'll think that some of their descendants, new environmentalists, will do it for centuries. I think for Sumava this attitude, this fundamentalist environmental stance, is deadly. I'm bohužel so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u45	Thank you. With another point of fact, Mr Kučera, Mr Bendl, followed by Mr Junek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u46	Hello, thank you for your word. I would only react briefly to the speech of Minister Brabec. I am pleased that he takes over the TOP 09 argument to this law, and in this case I also agree with it in many ways. I would like to say more or less two things, and the first thing - the discussion about the pauseable territory of the municipalities, whether or not the Šumava communities have or are not supposed to be in those pauseable territories. We have had several discussions on this subject, mentioned here by both the Minister and the rapporteur, various round tables, subcommittees etc. And the questions for the mayors of Šumava communities were quite clear: do you wish to be part of the national park or not? And the mayors said yes. That means they go to be part of the national park. That means the offer to remove their pawnable territory from the national park, as the discussions about the Bavarian Forest were needed, so the mayors here refused. That's the first thing. And the second thing is to account for regional representatives and those who say how the communities in Sumava suffer. I am very happy to arrange an excursion to another area to see how the villages suffer where the landscape area is not protected and where there is no national park. And that area is called Ore Mountains. Please go and see how the villages live in the Ore Mountains. And I would like to point out that there are natural sites that are perfectly comparable, if not more beautiful, if not more valuable than in Sumava, let it be a moors, let it be a plateau. There's no people, there's no tourists, there's no villages, there's no residents, there's no ruins. I mean, the National Park is a blessing to Sumava and really, let's defend him. Let's defend him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u47	Thank you, honourable Member. With another point of fact, Mr Bendl, after which Mr Junek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u48	Thank you for the floor. I originally wanted two notes, but now my colleague inspired me to the third. If you ask the citizens of the Czech Republic if they want to live in the Czech Republic, the vast majority will tell you that they do, but how they will live there is the question we are talking about today. And the people who live there today, and they like to live there, they don't want to live under this law, they want to modify it. That's the first point. Two. Minister, I asked if if if you put a seal on the property of people living in national parks in those relevant zones, if they could guarantee their property if they wanted to take a mortgage or other loan, and I didn't get an answer. And then the last point is that it's hard to get an answer from the community and that they don't really know what they want. They know that, and many of the amendments that are here are being consulted with them, they have a specific text, and the question is, how do you just stand up to them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u49	Thank you, honourable Member. Another point of fact, so far last, Mr Jiří Junek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u50	Thank you. I'm just having a little reaction to the Minister. I agree with a whole range of things you said, but you almost concluded that the law is good at bringing rules for national parks, in that there is a great benefit and a shift. But I'm missing something in these rules, and that's what I'm talking about here - that we've set some goals there, but we haven't figured out how long we're gonna meet them. So I don't think the rules are completely tightened to the end, and they're just missing something. I would therefore appeal once again to think about my amendment and accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u51	Thank you. With another technical remark, Mr Ivan Gabal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u52	Thank you. Your way only in response to a fellow Zahradník. I don't think the park in Sumava just wants environmentalists. I haven't seen any recent data, but I think there's really a lot of interest, and the Minister pointed it out, some people would quite like to save for tickets to California national parks if they could have the same experience in Sumava. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u53	I thank Mr Gabal. That was the last one entered into the debate so far. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If no one is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. Mr. Rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u54	I will now just say briefly that nine Members have spoken in the general debate, and then a number of speakers have also made factual remarks. A colleague, Zahradník, has proposed a renegotiation or renegotiation of the committee. Mr Zahradník and colleague Vilímec also proposed rejection at third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u55	Thank you. I do not see a motion to return the guarantee committee to renegotiate. Yes, there is a proposal, so we will vote on it. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. There's a check-out request. I'm signing you all off, and I'm asking you to sign up with your voting cards. We shall vote on the return of the bill to the guarantee committee for a renegotiation pursuant to § 93 para. 2. I have begun voting on the re-negotiation of the bill to renegotiate the guarantee committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 181 vote, 107 Members and Members registered, for 8, against 76. The motion was not accepted. I am therefore opening a detailed debate, which was the first to be heard by Mr Jan Zahradník. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u56	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled three amendments, and I have justified them in the general debate. The first one, number 1, is inserted as House document 4169. The second amendment is inserted into the system as House document 4170, the third amendment as House document 4393. I hereby sign up for all three amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u57	I thank Mr Zahradník. Another party to the detailed debate is Mr Jiří Junek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u58	I would like to sign up for my amendments, which are read in the system as a House document under the number 4309. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u59	Thank you. Another duly signed up for the detailed debate is Mr Petr Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to formally sign up for an amendment that has been inserted into the system under number 4416. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u61	I thank Mr Bendl. Another enrollment is Mr Martin Kolovratník. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u62	Mr President, thank you. I, colleagues and colleagues, as I have announced, subscribe to my amendment under number 4317. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u63	Thank you, honourable Member. The next enrollment is Mrs Marie Pěnčíková. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u64	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I am merely signing up for my amendment, which you have in the system under number 4194. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u65	That's gonna blow our minds. Thank you, ma'am. Another enrollment is Mr. Václav Klučka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u66	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I am applying to document No 4160, in which there is an amendment, which I have justified here in the general debate. However, at the same time, allow me to load one separate item, that is to delete paragraphs 7 and 17 of Resolution 94 of the Committee on the Environment of 30 March 2016, which is part of document 4160.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u67	I thank Mr Klučka. Another, second-to-last, duly registered is Mr Jan Klán. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u68	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, this is going to be a little bit of a surprise for me, because I have to read the reasoning because I did not say it in the general debate. I sign up for my amendment as House Document No 4417. The reason for this is that the draft Nature and Landscape Conservation Act, as presented in the press 501, presents a huge legislative risk at every opening of Act No. 114/1992 Coll. The legislative risk is on the side, for example, when changing the borders of individual national parks, when we are constantly opening the law exactly number 114. The proposal I propose in my amendment does not undermine the concept of the law, but reduces the legislative risk when responding to the change in the situation in environmental protection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-25-ps2013-047-02-011-017.u69	I thank Mr Klán. Mr Bendl cancels his application. This has been the last one entered into a detailed debate so far. I ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. If there is no such person, I will conclude a detailed debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. There were no further proposals for repayment or shortening the deadline, or a proposal for the guarantee committee not to deal with the bill did not fall either. That is why I am ending the second reading of this bill. I thank the Minister, the rapporteur. The next item is the item number
