ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-002-145.u1	145. Senate bill on the principles of conduct and intercourse of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate between themselves and on the outside (Stage Act) /German press 736/ - first reading The Government's views have been delivered to us as House Press No. 736/1. And I am now asking that the motion tabled under the authority of the senators be presented by Senator Eliška Wagnerová, whom I welcome here, and I ask that she take the floor. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-002-145.u2	Mr President... [[Spoken off the mike.]] Mr President, Members of the Government, Members, as has been said, I am here to defend the proposal, Senate -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-002-145.u3	I'm very sorry, Senator. I beg the honourable House for peace. You, Senator, please put a microphone closer to your mouth. [[- Yes.]] Thank you. You're very kind. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-002-145.u4	A Senate bill, the so-called law of intercourse. Let me submit that this is actually the last constitutional debt, this law of contact, because the Constitution prejudices it in Article 40, and thus, to this day, this law has not actually been adopted. It's been more than 20 years, and it's a bit, I'd say, a shame, that we're leaving the Constitution unfulfilled in that sense. However, it has a second connotation that the Constitution has remained unfulfilled. In fact, the law of contact was to be adopted before the laws of the Rules of Procedure of the two Houses were adopted, so that it would actually make a kind of basis on which both laws would be based as the rules of procedure of the two Chambers, which therefore did not happen. Today we must assume from the reality that the Rules of Procedure of the two Houses are, therefore, and cannot be overlooked, and therefore - and they have taken place, other things have happened, such as that the parliamentary election of the President has become a direct election of the President, or quite substantial material, that is, the parliamentary election of the President, which would have been the subject of an amendment in the law of contact, has actually fallen out. Well, from everything I'm saying, actually, it looks that way, and that corresponds to the proposal, it's very subtle that it really only has 17 paragraphs, including efficiency, that's Section 17. So it's a really thin proposal. And it doesn't bring, I'd say, so many revolutionary, new, more like a lot of things that have actually been going on and on. So now he's saying it kind of hard, so that there can be no dispute, because in certain situations, the media has always speculated whether it's a good thing or whether it should be different, and so on and so on. For example, I don't know, referral of a Senate bill, then a corrected proposal, so since when do I count the deadline, and so on and so forth. We've always dealt with it for the best, but now it's just said for both chambers kind of hard, and that's probably a good thing. However, what is really revolutionary in it, and I would like to draw your attention to this, is provided for in Section 2, which is introduced, which concerns the discussion and voting on constitutional laws and those laws which are inexactly called organic, should rightly be constitutional laws, but it is Article 40 of the Constitution, in which it is said that one House cannot, of course, overrule the other. This new modification, which is being proposed here, also introduces many times discussed but never discussed boat. This means, and I believe that the boat is a very good method precisely for the substance of constitutional laws, on which the broadest possible consensus should rule. What does that mean? That the bill will therefore go from one House to another until both agree on an acceptable version. However, this cannot be impenetrable, and therefore the proposal introduces as an end to the conjecture of the end of the parliamentary term of the Chamber of Deputies. If the two chambers simply disagree in the parliamentary term for the Chamber of Deputies, the proposal falls under the table. That, in my opinion, is the most important regulation in the law. Otherwise, I don't know, there's no need to reproduce the other paragraphs, because they're more of a technical nature, and I'm sure each of you will get to know it. And once again, it's actually situations that already exist and have been dealt with, but now things are actually getting really hard here. So maybe I won't even deal with it any further, and I'll ask you to support the proposal, kindly release it to committee, and then to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-002-145.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. And now I ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Jeroným Tejc, to take the floor. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-002-145.u6	Thank you for the floor. I would inform that this proposal was discussed on 30 March 2016 at a meeting of the Government, which, in view of the fact that this is primarily a law governing the relations of the two parliamentary chambers, adopted a neutral position. The House print 736 lists some specific points that would be worth adjusting. It draws attention to possible contradictory interpretations in order to respect both this law, the law of contact, and the law on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. These are all things that, in my opinion, can be dealt with in committee negotiations. I would state and add to the senator that it is not the first time The Chamber of Deputies deals with this material. We, together as the constitutional committee and subcommittee of the Constitutional Committee, have discussed this text and the foundations of this text many times on the floor of both the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies with the participation of Members and Senators, so it is not a new material for members of the Constitutional Committee. I would like to ask that this press be released right into the proceedings of the Constitutional Legal Committee, which is likely to be a guarantee committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-002-145.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Marek Benda first came forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-002-145.u8	Dear Vice-President, dear last Minister - the situation in the government seems to be quite serious if there is only one minister left - Madam Senator, ladies and gentlemen. I do not want to be particularly long, but let me make a few points about this law. I will make the first comment on what the senator and also the former constitutional judge have said here that this is the last debt to the Constitution of the Czech Republic. I hope that Vice-President Filip has listened particularly carefully to her, who repeatedly tells us that another debt to the Constitution of the Czech Republic is the absence of a general referendum law, and I am always arguing with her again whether or not the Constitution needs to be interpreted in one way or another. So I just hope he listened to the senator, and I'm telling the former constitutional judge that this is the last debt we have to the Constitution. That's the first note. Note two. This is a thing that is really being prepared for a long time. I remember - unfortunately, I have the advantage or the disadvantage of remembering a lot of this House, I remember Vice-President Buzková's Commission for Social Democracy, which was the first version of the Contact Act. At different times he was spread out, sometimes wider, sometimes narrower. At this point, I think he's coming to us in this variant, let's say, of a narrower nature, really discussed by both chambers, and thus with a greater chance to go through it. It brings one more fundamental change, which has already been described here by Senator Wagnerová, and that is the boat, the possibility of forwarding constitutional and laws under Article 40 of the Constitution between the two chambers. It appears to be advantageous, but, of course, it will mean that the adoption of constitutional laws will continue to be a little easier. So far, we have had a very rigid Constitution because of the need for a consensus of three fifths in both chambers on the same wording of the Constitutional Law, even in one single reading. The Senate was in a disadvantageous situation there, it is true that it could either accept or reject what the Chamber of Deputies sent over, but it led to the fact that during the 23, 24 years of existence of the Czech Constitution for these changes there was relatively little, because it was always just changes that had a broad social and, therefore, political consensus. The introduction of a boat may tend to change the Constitution more often, to make it a little easier. It will lead more to the House feeling: "Well, we can still try to send this to the Senate, at worst we can get it back." So I just wanted to point out that this problem exists, that there could be situations that, on more points, the Constitution will potentially, say, be raised or challenged, even if it may not be completed during the parliamentary term. Otherwise, I would say that this is a proposal that is quite sober and that should address practically the issues of functioning, which actually de facto work as proposed by the law of contact today, but it would be adapted, and it would be adapted, and the Senator is, of course, right, in line with what the Constitution assumes that there is a law on the relations and principles of the conduct of both chambers between and on the outside. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-002-145.u9	I thank Mr Benda. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for final words. There's no interest in final words. We will therefore consider the proposal for a committee's order for discussion. First, we will decide on the commandment by the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering the proposed proposal to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. I am opening the vote on the commandment to the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 245 vote. 148 Members and Members are registered, for 123, against none. This proposal was adopted. I note that the proposal was ordered to the constitutionally legal committee as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to any other committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee? It's not like that. Nor was there a proposal in the general debate to shorten or extend the time limit for discussion. I therefore thank both the Senator and the rapporteur and end the first reading of this bill. The next item is the item number
