ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-003-003.u1	3. Government bill amending Act No. 153/1994 Coll., on Intelligence Services of the Czech Republic, as amended, and other related laws /house print 855/ - second reading On behalf of the Government, the Prime Minister, Bohuslav Sobotka, will present the proposal. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-003-003.u2	Hello, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members. Since I have given this bill quite in detail in the first reading, let me be very brief this time. The aim of the bill - basically just to remind you - is to strengthen the control of all three intelligence services of the Czech Republic, i.e. the Security Information Services, the Office for Foreign Relations and Information, as well as Military Intelligence. More specifically, it is proposed that Parliament's scrutiny will also be subject to the Office for Foreign Relations and Information in the future. In this way, intelligence control is to be consolidated to a certain extent. Another important change in this proposal is the two-level system of intelligence control. In addition to the special audit bodies of the first degree, this means the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, an expert audit body of the second degree will be established from the Government and the Chamber of Deputies, i.e. an independent control body of the intelligence services of the Czech Republic, which should be composed of trusted, security-tested and public-respected persons whose control will be subject to all three of the above mentioned existing intelligence services of the Czech Republic. I would like to thank the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies dealing with this proposal, and the Defence Committee and the Security Committee have recommended that this bill be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-003-003.u3	I thank the Prime Minister. The proposal was ordered at first reading to discuss the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. It was also directed to the Defence Committee and also to the Constitutional Legal Committee as other committees. The Committees' resolution has been delivered to you as House prints 855/1 to 4. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Security and Defence, Mr Václav Klučka, take over, inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committees and justify any amendments. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-003-003.u4	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, first of all, allow me to introduce you to the resolution of the Security Committee on the 35th meeting held on 16 November 2016, which is a guarantee committee at that time. Security Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after hearing the opening words of Deputy Minister for the Management of the Section of the Legislative Council of the Government, doktor Jan Kněžínek, PHD, after the report by the rapporteur of the Ing Committee. Václav Klučka and after a general and detailed debate I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that the Government's draft law amending Act No. 153/1994 Coll., on Intelligence Services of the Czech Republic, as amended, and some other laws, Parliament's press 855, should give its consent as amended by these amendments. 1. In Part 1 of Article I, the following amendment point 1 is inserted before the amendment point 1: "1. By Article 5 (1) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission shall (a) the words "and security" shall be deleted.' The amendments Nos 1 to 4 are referred to as amendments Nos 2 to 5. 2. The following amendment point 4 is inserted after the previous amendment point 3: "4. Paragraph 14 shall apply. § 14: The Chamber of Deputies shall be informed by the Government of the activities of intelligence services by means of its own for the purposes of monitoring the intelligence services set up by the Special Audit Authorities. [[hereinafter referred to as the competent authority]] The rest of the amendment point is being recalculated. II. He instructs the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. III. It hereby authorises the Committee's rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, which I am doing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-003-003.u5	I thank the rapporteur and now, please, the rapporteur of Mr Jeroným Tejc's constitutional law committee, to inform us about the discussion of the proposal in the constitutional law committee. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-003-003.u6	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you that we have dealt with this law quite in detail at the Committee meeting on 3 November, but there has not been an agreement on amendments and the Constitutional Committee has interrupted the discussion of this press until the next meeting of the Constitutional Legal Committee. However, since we are not a guarantee committee, of course, we did not propose that this item be withdrawn from the programme, and we referred all members of the constitutional legal committee to the possibility of submitting amendments at second reading. In this sense, therefore, our resolution does not prevent the discussion of this press and the completion of the second reading at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-003-003.u7	Thank you, Prime Minister. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Richard Dolejš first came forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-003-003.u8	Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, fellow Members, I consider this amendment to the Intelligence Act to be one of the most important standards that we are dealing with, particularly in terms of the functioning of the democratic rule of law. I have noted in this discussion that some colleagues question the sense of strengthening parliamentary control or parliamentary intelligence control as such. I cannot agree with this view and I can justify why. At the same time, I will try to draw attention to another unsolved problem related to competence regarding intelligence control, which is directed towards the government. I have prepared in this regard an amendment adopted by the Security Committee. This has been mentioned here. I am glad that the amendment went through the committee across the political spectrum. Therefore, I would like to comment more fully on my position so that we can put these things in some context when you decide in the third reading not only on the law, the draft amendment of the law as a whole, but also on the proposed amendment. I would like to stress that I consider the amendment tabled by the Government to be necessary. And it is indeed a fundamental issue, because it is necessary for both the government and Parliament to respond to gradual, in quotation marks, a silent strengthening of the competences and competences of intelligence services. It would be worth mentioning and recalling some examples. I'll try the most essential ones. During this parliamentary term, the intelligence services were granted access to information held by the General Financial Directorates or information held by the banking sector in the form of a change in the law. In addition, the intelligence services have been granted access to data in the database of subscribers of publicly available telephone services. Now the House has an amendment to the Military Intelligence Act on its desk, where military intelligence also strengthens its competence in cyber defence, including possible cyberspace monitoring. These are the major interventions that this House is making and should therefore respond adequately, and this is precisely by strengthening parliamentary control itself. Of course, there are a lot more competences given to the intelligence services. They were made by Nečasův' government and previous governments, but there's no point in delaying you with the list of all these activities. Of course, strengthening the competence of intelligence services has its logic. It responds to the security situation, both in the fight against terrorism, in the fight against corruption, but also in the fight already mentioned in the context of cyberspace crime. This, of course, also brings a partial reduction in citizens' rights and freedoms, and it is very thin ice in this respect in a democratic legal environment. As legislators, we should balance and create defensive mechanisms to avoid abuse of the situation by the security and repressive apparatus of the state. It is therefore necessary to respond to these phenomena and strengthen, as I mentioned, parliamentary control, in order to further develop democracy in the country. Parliamentary control should be a safeguard against possible abuse of secret services and should protect citizens from possible unauthorised interference of intelligence services in constitutionally guaranteed rights and freedoms of citizens. [[16.20 hours]] However, the current regulation is insufficient, and I would like to speak from the position of former Chairman of the Permanent Commission for the Control of the Activities of the Security Information Service and the current Vice-President of the Commission. After the experience I have had over the years, I would say that the current state of legislation leads to formalism and the toothlessness of control. Therefore, I clearly welcome the standard submitted by the Government, which responds to developments, as I mentioned. It is, in my view, a fundamental step forward in the control of services and it extends the possibilities and strengthens parliamentary control, precisely by establishing a special second degree, an expert degree, which creates parliamentary committees and will create, if established, room for manoeuvre to have information from living ties, from living cases, not specific information, but information on whether or not the laws of this country are being violated. I believe that only in this way are we able to remove the said toothlessness and actually the impotence of parliamentary control, which we can perceive at this moment. However, the second point is that I mentioned it in the introduction that it has a second dimension, and it is not only the dimension of parliamentary control towards the intelligence services, but it is also a question of parliamentary control towards the government, because when we look at the law on intelligence services, it is clear from this law that the government is responsible for the activity and coordination of intelligence services. That is why, by the current law, the Chamber of Deputies has a constitutional right and competence to control the government in this matter, but unfortunately, this competence has not been fulfilled in 22 years of functioning of this law. After experience as Chairman of the Permanent Commission for the Control of the Activity of the Security Information Service, I know that it is necessary for the Government to answer to the parliamentary body, first of all, as it deals with intelligence information, and also that the Government should provide information to the House through these authorities on intelligence activities, and at the same time to avoid possible misuse of secret services as such. As I mentioned, unfortunately, this institute has not been filled. In the last parliamentary term, as a permanent commission, we have waged a kind of competence war with the Nečasův Government when we requested this information, but unfortunately, the former Nečasův government did not want to provide synergies to the competent supervisory body of the House and pointed out precisely the legal analyses that talked about the fact that the parliamentary committee concerned is not the body that would be responsible for providing information on the activities of intelligence services. What the commission then required for the Nečasův Government was not only more specific information on the BIS's regular annual reports, but also related to specific cases. As an example, I can cite the alleged leak of information from the BIS to the ABL, where Mr. Janoušek's name was among other things, and unfortunately, there was zero cooperation with the Nečasův Government. We have not given up on this battle, but the Nečasův government has fallen, so the Commission's activities have also fallen towards this government, but we have come up with legislative activities that concern the amendments that would put the Institute in the life. This means that the problem is still alive because it has not been legally resolved and concerns Section 14 of the Intelligence Act. I would take the liberty of quoting this paragraph to make it clear to everyone what is going on, and also to quote Section 15, which clearly speaks of the competence that the House and the current legislation imply from this law. Citation § 14: The Chamber of Deputies is informed by the Government about intelligence activities through its competent intelligence authority. Following § 15: The Government informs the competent authority once a year and whenever it asks for intelligence activities and always when obtaining information important for the protection of the constitutional establishment, important economic interests, security and defence of the Czech Republic. So it is clear from the quote that the law gives competence, but the problem is that this paragraph has not been fulfilled. That is why I took the liberty of submitting an amendment that would address this and which would actually change in Section 14 the wording that is there - the competent authority - to a formulation that would give clear competence to the relevant standing committees of the BIS, the Office for Foreign Relations and Information, which will be newly established, and to the Military Intelligence Audit Committee. So if we were to approve this amendment at third reading, we would correct what the House has not been able to address for 22 years, and we would actually introduce another dimension of control of the Chamber of Deputies towards the government into practice. So I would like to ask you to remember what I said when we vote on the relevant amendment, to consider its support and also to consider the support of the law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-003-003.u9	Thank you. I am very sorry for the renonc, but Mr Klučka is rapporteur not only for the Security Committee but also for the Defence Committee. I'd like you to bring us up to speed with the report on the defence committee hearing. Sorry about that. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-003-003.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is the least you can do at the moment to introduce you to the simple resolution of the Committee on Defence of the 34th meeting of 6 October 2016 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 153/ 1994 Coll., on Intelligence Services of the Czech Republic, as amended, and other related laws, House Press No. 855. Committee on Defence of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening speech of the Deputy Minister for the Management of the Section of the Legislative Council of the Government JUDr. Jan Kněžínek and after the news report and after the debate first recommends Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, make a government bill amending Act No. 153/1994 Coll., on Intelligence Services of the Czech Republic, as amended, and other related laws, House Press No. 855, approved; Secondly, he instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and asks the Chair of the Committee to present the resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-003-003.u11	I thank the rapporteur and apologise once again. We will continue with the general debate and there, with a factual remark, is Mr Ivan Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-003-003.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, we have another law here that concerns the problem of so-called. cyber security. What bothers me a little bit is that the laws and institutions that are getting into this problem are starting to multiply. We recently had a law here from the Home Office workshop, which merely renamed some of the duties of administrators of these matters. We have the Home Office with some special forces on this, we have an army here that amplifies the fight against cyber security, there's military intelligence already here. I don't see the state's strategy a little bit, and I could talk about other things - energy security, etc., which is related to this, I don't see any coherent state's strategy in this area. In addition, we also need to mention that we are not alone. These threats are global, and the EU is preparing a number of directives, and we needed them on the Committee on European Affairs on this, and they need to be taken into account. [[16.30 hours]] In addition to this factual problem, however, we must also look at this from the point of view that has been mentioned here, and this is data protection and also the control of possible misuse of these things. And it is also confidence in operators and people who operate communication techniques that potentially can lose customers precisely because they lose confidence in the services provided to them. I'm glad that this law is under discussion. But I certainly do not see what I do not see a comprehensive strategy that would lead and address the problem of cyber security not only in the Czech Republic, but also respect that it is not a problem of one country. It's a global problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-003-003.u13	Thank you. Excuse me, Member, with Mrs Jana Černochová's point of view. [[Chalupo]] Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-003-003.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would just like to say to my colleague Pilný that we are discussing a law other than what he was talking about. We are discussing a law concerning the control of intelligence services.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-003-003.u15	Mr Bohuslav Chalupa is now duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-003-003.u16	Thank you for the floor. My esteemed colleagues, colleagues, honourable members of the government, I will follow up on what my colleague Dolejš said before me, and what Mr Pilný said here. We're definitely in a whole new situation, and it's going to get worse over time, let's say, because that cyberspace is opening up options that we don't know much about today. And the problems that are going to happen will really get more and more involved in our everyday life as well as in legislation and in the activities of executives, etc. Given that we are discussing the law and there are certain aspects that I think it would be good to say here today, I will not respond to the amendment, as Mr Dolejš said here, but I will respond to the amendment that my colleague Korte has applied to the Committee on Security. The opinion of the Security Committee contains an amendment proposed by Mr Kort, which is of Section 5 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) which defines the so-called external competence of Military Intelligence, release the words "and security." Military intelligence should then provide information originating abroad important for the defence of the Czech Republic, but no longer for its security. The amount to be reported in column 060 (a) defining the external scope of Military Intelligence in this form in the Intelligence Act since 2005, when it became there in connection with the Military Intelligence Act, its accompanying Act No. 290/2005 Sb. Members of Nečas, I Vidím and Kladívko were the authors of this change, and we can read in the explanatory report that the reason for this change is to clarify the scope of Military Intelligence in the area of its external focus with regard to the developmental nature of the security environment and the asymmetric nature of security threats. It should be noted that there was not a single objection or comment to this amendment during the discussion of this press. Mr Korte has already tabled the same proposal once in this parliamentary term, namely in June 2015 when discussing the press no. 400, which was also amended by the Intelligence Act. In short, he justified it so that the Ministry of Defence's remit, and hence his intelligence services, should only be in defence and not security, and that therefore the Military Intelligence should perhaps interfere with somewhere they must not. The Security Guarantee Committee then adopted a negative opinion on this proposal and this proposal was rejected by this House by a ratio of 22 to 121 votes. Now this proposal is presented again and, oddly enough, the same committee that rejected it about a year ago. So it is appropriate to ask: Did something happen during this year that would justify such a change of mind? I believe that it has not happened, and I therefore assume and hope that this proposal will be rejected again. It is quite difficult to separate security and defense. Each state, within its security, is building its defense capability. These two areas cannot be separated. On the contrary, they are very closely related, and one is part of the other. Therefore, the issue of defence is part of the constitutional law on security of the Czech Republic. Both services that operate abroad are relatively small and never one or the other individually can cover the whole world and all the security threats that we or will face in the future. If we are able to do well to ensure that overlaps and duplications do not occur, then their possible overlapping foreign competence for this state will only be beneficial. The release of the word "security" after more than ten years after it was written there is therefore not a good idea at all. This is not only because, in accordance with this defined scope, military intelligence abroad has built up its not insignificant possibilities and capabilities. In conclusion, what I have just said here has again to do with what I have been sharing here several times in the Chamber of Deputies, and I have asked for support, i.e. that we should think much more about issues and possibilities of coordinating intelligence services as all intelligence services, so that there is no overlap or bad exchange of information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-003-003.u17	Thank you, Mr Chalupa. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mr Ivan Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-003-003.u18	Hello, thank you, Mr President, fellow Members, Prime Minister, Government. Very briefly. I think that what has not been mentioned here in the previous speeches and what is important for the House is that this is a key law, which both the government coalition and this House fulfil its commitment in response to some previous events in relation to activities or problems in the activities of intelligence services, by establishing a second degree of control that will be over parliamentary control and will cooperate or work on its request. This is therefore a deeper control of the intelligence services, of all intelligence services. I consider this a very important step, because it was not easy for partners to convince us to take this step in coalition negotiations. For more than a year, a group of all the parliamentary parties worked to prepare this legislation, and I would like to thank everyone. The coordinator was Deputy Prime Minister Bělobrádek. And if we manage to bring this thing down, we will significantly shift the performance and control of our intelligence services to a new level. Of course, there is still quite a lot of work we lack. But it is important that we realise that we are taking an important step out of all the corners of this Parliament that is not about cybersecurity or other things, but about a qualitatively new level of intelligence. So much for factual clarification. And I'd like to thank everyone who's earned this. I hope this novel can be pushed through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-003-003.u19	Thank you, honourable Member. This has been the last one entered into the general debate so far. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If no one reports, I will end the general debate. I'm asking for final words. Not interested. We will therefore proceed to a detailed debate, and I am opening a detailed debate which I am not registering for any application. Sorry, rapporteur, first of all, with priority rights. After that, Mr Váňa. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-003-003.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I will use detailed debates to introduce you to two fairly simple amendments. The first concerns the first part of Article 1 (3) in Section 12 (3). Three is releasing. paragraphs 4 and 5 shall be designated as paragraphs 3 and 4. And the second proposal: In Part Three, the text marked as variant 2 is deleted, it is purely legislative technical regulation. The first one. According to § 12i para. 1 of the Czech Intelligence Act is to be included in the Office of the Chamber of Deputies. In Article 12i, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: However, Article 3 of the Act provides that details of the status of the staff of the Secretariat of the independent control body are to be laid down by the Statute of the Head of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies. If the secretariat of the independent control body is to be included in the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, this means that the relevant staff will be the staff of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies. In these circumstances, it does not make sense to approve a special statute. The status of the staff of the secretariat of the independent control authority will result from the rules applicable to the Office of the Chamber of Deputies. The adaptation in the special statute will either duplicate what applies in general to all employees, or would conflict with the general regulation and create certain uncertainties. Therefore, this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-003-003.u21	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now Mr Váňa has duly entered into a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-003-003.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for my amendment, which is under number 5311 in the system. I believe that I am based on the same situation with my fellow rapporteur when, at the joint meeting of the Defence Committee and the Security Committee, we agreed on some minor technical adjustments. Part of these adjustments has already been made by the rapporteur. They are also included in my amendment. My amendment contains other parts which are fully justified in the document which I have just stated. For the sake of clarity, this is still the appointment of the President of the Special Supervisory Authority, where the method of appointment is specified. If there was a collision and it was not quite clear which of the members it should be, then it is said that it should be the oldest member at that time. And then there is an adjustment where the lump sum, the remuneration for membership of this body, which is mentioned in the law, is replaced by a calculation formula so that the law does not have to change if there is any change in the amount of the usual salaries. So much just to clarify my amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-003-003.u23	I thank Mr Váňa. This has been the last one entered into a detailed debate so far. I'm asking if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. If this is not the case, I am ending the debate in detail. I ask about the final words of the Prime Minister, or the rapporteur. Not interested. I'm ending second reading of this bill. For personal reasons, due to today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until the end of the day, Mr Miloš Babiš apologizes. Let's move on to the next point and that's
