ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-010-075.u1	75. Government bill amending Act No. 121/2000 Coll., on Copyright Law, on Rights Related to Copyright and Amendment of Certain Laws (Authorisation Act), as amended /the House Print 724/ - First Reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-010-075.u2	Thank you. Mr President, my dear colleagues, the primary reason for submitting this proposal is the need to put the European Directive on collective management of copyright and related rights in our legal order and the licensing of multiple territories for the use of musical works online in the internal market. This Directive establishes a uniform legal framework for collective rights management with a view to ensuring a high standard of enforcement in particular in terms of transparency and financial management of collective administrators and legal certainty for all the entities concerned, in particular holders of rights and users of objects of protection. In addition, a completely new possibility is introduced to license cross-border use of online music to encourage the development of music services in the Internet environment. The transposition of the directive required considerable interference with the existing structure of the copyright law. This need was used for the overall revision, clarification and refinement of the regulation of collective management, including adaptation of the concept and terminology of the new Civil Code. In addition to the transposition of the amendment contains several significant changes reflecting problems from practice. An example is the new comprehensive regulation of the creation of remuneration rates or the newly introduced possibility of licensing the use of works on the market unavailable and orphaned works through collective management, monitoring the facilitation of access to cultural and knowledgeable wealth in the digital environment. In this context, the amendment substantially extends the possibility of using the institute of so-called extended collective management. It is also worth mentioning with regard to the Senate proposal of the amendment included in the discussion at this meeting a considerable simplification of reporting live musical productions. Thank you for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-010-075.u3	I thank the Minister. Now, please, the rapporteur's words for first reading were originally to be adopted by Mr Jiří Zlatuška. However, this week, from 3. 5 to 6. 5. Mr Zlatuška, who is excused on a foreign trip, should represent Mr Roman Procházka. At first reading, there is a need to vote on the amendment of the rapporteur. Therefore, I would like to ask you to change the rapporteur from Mr Zlatuška to Mr Roman Procházka. I am opening the vote on this change. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 487, registered 153 Members, for 123, against none. The motion was accepted. I therefore ask the rapporteur, Mr Roman Procházka, to take the floor. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-010-075.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to the Copyright Act aims in particular to implement Directive 2014/26/EU on collective management of copyright and related rights and on licensing for multiple territories for rights to use musical works online in the internal market. In addition, the amendment to the Copyright Act regulates some other questions based primarily on practice and adapts their terminology to the current legislation of the Czech Republic. The objective of the Collective Governance Directive is to facilitate the provision of licences for the use of musical works on the Internet and similar platforms for the territories of several States. In order to implement the directive on collective management, a completely new text of Title IV is proposed in the amendment to the Copyright Act. The implementation of the directive on collective management will therefore not change the system of collective management as such, the so-called legal monopoly in collective management will continue to be applied and the authorisation to exercise collective management will continue to be granted only by the Ministry of Culture. However, the directive on collective management provides an exception to this principle in the exercise of collective management in the provision of licences for the territories of several states for the use of musical works online, where authorisation will not be required for collective administrators from other EU Member States or the EEA if they exercise collective management in this particular area as well as for the territory of the Czech Republic. In addition to the implementation of the Collective Administration Directive, the amendment to the Copyright Act repeals the problematic ceiling on the amount of remuneration for the use of the work, where such use takes place through television or radio receivers located in premises intended for private accommodation of persons. Furthermore, the amendment to the Copyright Act brings, for example, the obligation of the State Fund for Culture and the State Fund for Cinematography to maintain a list of authors and other rights holders whose property rights the State has inherited or fell to him as death, regulates the termination of the status of orphaned work, introduces a legal licence for the use of copyright works and other subject matter of protection for the purposes of cartoon and parody and regulates certain provisions on administrative penalties relating to the amount of fines and the target recipient of such fines, which is the State Fund for Culture. I propose to launch the amendment to second reading, even in view of the fact that EU Member States had an obligation to implement the Collective Governance Directive by the end of April 2016. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-010-075.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am launching a general debate, which Mrs Nina Nováková was the first to join. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-010-075.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that the discussion of the amendment to the copyright law will not be too complicated, but I would like to draw attention to some of the issues that have been overlooked in the drafting of the amendment, although many organisations have pointed out some shortcomings to the Ministry of Culture. The one thing that we will certainly discuss at second reading concerns a list of public libraries that are not supposed to pay a reward for lending, or pay a reward to authors, and indeed, it has been completely dismissed that any reward would also belong to publishers. Of course, publishers place large funds in order for a book to come out. And we are very happy that people borrow literary works in libraries and especially professional publications, but of course if I borrow it, I will not buy it. So somehow both the author and the publisher could be, even if it was more symbolic, in some way he should be rewarded. This will be one of the possible discussions. The next discussion will concern persons, so-called obliged persons, who import devices to reproduce sound and sound video recordings. Interestingly, the association of importers of these facilities would like to regulate this area in a better way, as this would reduce the grey economy. The next thing is copying audiovisual works. The point here again is that basically copying is to be paid for every new copy produced, and it is to consider whether it would be better to pay a certain flat rate. A very sensitive subject is also that artists and authors who want their work on the media, whether audio or audio-visual, do not have the funds to produce them very often. And at that point, actually, the person who makes the carriers is very densely doing that that one time buys the work from them basically, so the author and possibly the interpreter are losing the possibility, even if the work was further spread, it was very successful, perhaps really super successful, so authors and performers can't see anything from the work anymore. And it's only because they were in financial distress at the beginning. There are about two or three issues that need to be discussed, and since we have already held several seminars and round tables across the political parties, I believe that the amendments will be quite easy to create. That is why I also propose that we let the copyright law go into second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-06-ps2013-044-12-010-075.u7	Thank you, Mrs Nováková. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. Not interested. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering a proposal to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone else have a proposal for a guarantee committee? It's not like that. I am opening the vote on the commandment of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a guarantee committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 488, registered with 156 Members of Parliament, for 125, against 1. The motion was accepted. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to other committees. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee? It's not like that. And since I do not see a proposal to shorten or extend the time limit for discussion, I note that the proposal was directed to the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a guarantee committee, and I conclude the first reading of this bill. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. On the basis of the agreement of the Presidents of the Clubs, this was the last item that we had to discuss today, but it is necessary to put to the vote on the proposal to remove the remaining unnegotiated items approved by the 44th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I therefore initiate the vote on the elimination of the remaining unnegotiated items approved by the programme. Whoever's in favor of elimination, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote 489, registered 155 Members of Parliament, for 91, against 24. The motion was accepted. We have therefore exhausted the approved programme of the 44th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Meeting adjourned. I would like to remind you once again that on Sunday, 8 May, an open day will take place in the premises of the House, and please take all the materials in your desks or they will be shredded. Have a nice weekend and I'm done with the 44th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies.
