ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another day of session adjourned by the 42nd session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. I'd like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, let me know who's applying for a replacement card. With replacement card number 3 today, Mr Jeroným Tejc and Mr Velebný vote with replacement card number 15. I agree that the following Members asked to apologize for their absence at today's meeting: Adámek František - a foreign trip, Benešík Ondřej - a foreign trip, Berdychová Martina - working grounds, Fischerová Jana - health reasons, Gabrhel Vlastimil within 17 hours - working reasons, Grospič Stanislav - a foreign trip, Havíř Pavel until 15.30 - working reasons, Holík Pavel - working reasons, Karamazov Simeon - personal reasons, Kostřica Rom - personal reasons, Mackovík Stanislav - working reasons, Marková Soňa - medical reasons, Maxová Radka - a foreign trip, Novotný Josef - Jiří Vondrášek, Zlatuška Igor - health reasons, Nytrová Pavlína - personal reasons, Rutová Miloslava until 15.30 - working reasons, Rykala Adam - family reasons, Šincl Ladislav until 16 hours - no reason given, Tureček Karel - no reason, Váhalová Pavlina - medical travel abroad - medical Dana - medical trip Vářek Vášek. Mr Karel Černý votes with replacement card number 16. The following members of the government apologize for today's meeting: Bělobrádek Pavel - foreign trip, Jurečka Marian - working reasons, Němeček Svatopluk - working reasons, Pelikán Robert - health reasons, Stropnickýý Martin - working reasons, Zaorálek Lubomír - working reasons, but cancels his apology, is here. And that's all the apologies at the moment. I will now ask my colleagues to take their seats. At this point, I'd like to ask you to calm down, because I think we should give a minute's silence to honor the victims of a terrorist attack in Brussels. [[The MPs rose up and honored the victim's silence from Brussels for a minute.]] Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the further procedure for the discussion of the approved agenda of the 42nd meeting, today's Grémium proposes this procedure. Today, Tuesday 22. 3. discuss points 225, House press 682/2, returned to Parliament by the Senate - elections to Parliament, paragraph 221 - seating arrangements, paragraph 17, House press 590, second reading - promotion of sport, paragraph 202 - migration crisis, which will be launched after agreement on the Gremium no later than 16.30, and paragraph 107, House press 592, first reading - commercial corporations. Wednesday, 23. 3. Points from the third reading block: paragraph 153, House printing 304 - Criminal liability, paragraph 154, House printing 458 - Criminal Code, paragraph 172, House printing 575 - State Land Office, paragraph 173, House printing 687 - Food and tobacco products. Furthermore, paragraphs 52, House printing 608, first reading - on the railways, paragraph 53, House printing 609, first reading - transport infrastructure, paragraph 44, House printing 495, first reading - security activities, paragraph 21, House printing 646, second reading - Collection of laws, paragraph 22, House printing 647, second reading - Collection of laws, related law, paragraph 13, House printing 600, second reading - state enterprise, and paragraph 57, House printing 712, first reading - vintage. If there is no objection, I will vote on the proposals from the Gremium at once. With the replacement card number 17, Mr Klučka is voting today. [[This is the messenger. Black guy.]] I'm registering your application with priority rights. I propose that we vote in favour of the agreement from the Gremium, and then we submit further proposals if that is the case. Mrs Wernerová votes with card number 19. So I'm asking if anyone has an objection. Mr Černoch is claiming priority rights. But you had a grémia rep, and that's what we agreed on. So... okay. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-000-000.u2	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, yes, I object. We had a grémium representative who made it clear that we would ask for point 202, information on the migration crisis, as the first point in the framework of events that took place this morning in Brussels. We consider this point to be the most important point, and we therefore propose to include this point as the first point of today's day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-000-000.u3	Yes, of course, Congressman, that is your right, but there was a compromise proposal for 16.30 at the latest. If it comes sooner, of course, we will discuss it. You had your deputy on the grémium, and I think the grémium agreement was given and agreed by your deputy as well. Of course, I can vote on this. Anyway, I'm asking if there's another proposal. Therefore, at this point, we will be adopting proposals for adjusting the programme, and I will then propose a way of voting. I have here Mr Okamura's application, then Mr Fiala, and then Mr Holík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-000-000.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to propose a new special item at the meeting of this House called Government Opinion on the future integration of 3091 illegal migrants adopted on the basis of the Government's decision to the Czech Republic. And I beg your support. It's a top-notch point in view of today's terrorist attack in Brussels. The EU's leadership and government have dragged us into a war with radical Islam with foreign policy. After Benešov and Kraliky, where the problem has been averted so far, in other cities, this time in Havířov and in Kostelec nad Orlicí, people are storming against the relocation of migrants, which your government wants to place against their will. Desperate citizens of these cities have already begun to collect signatures today under petition against migrants' placements in their cities. By mid-2017, according to the Prime Minister, we are to accept 3091 migrants, of which 1500 are voluntarily taking your government beyond the Brussels dictatorship, as is apparent from Prime Minister Sobotka's written reply to my interview on March 1st of this year. Czech Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka thanks to his willingness to accept so-called. He has also received refugees to Wikipedia, which reports that he has promised to accept most migrants from all Visegrad groups by the end of 2017. [[14.10 hours]] What the government absolutely underestimates and passes away is the question of what to do with migrants. There's no real strategy to go on. I ask the House to start discussing a fundamental problem in the context of negotiations on the migration crisis, and what we will do with migrants in particular. No one seems to have thought of it, but there is a gigantic problem ahead of us, and I repeat again the proposals of our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy SPD, which we repeatedly present here and repeatedly reject. It is a referendum on the withdrawal from the European Union. It is a zero tolerance of illegal immigration and a halt to the reception of Islamic refugees, so-called refugees. Prohibition of Islamic Sharia and Jihad law. You turned us down here last summer. It's border control. It's an increase in the defence of our republic. It is necessary to ensure immediately the protection of our national borders and to begin a consistent control of the people who are moving here. Furthermore, according to the Prime Minister's written reply to my interview, the government wants to accommodate more than 3000 immigrants of this number primarily in two facilities, in Havířov and in Kostelec nad Orlicí, and will continue to increase capacity as necessary. Again, I stress that these are immigrants that the government has decided to place here permanently. Permanently place and integrate into the Czech Republic against the will of citizens. What the government is doing is absurd nonsense. The hostel in Kostelec has a capacity of 275 people and is already half full and Havířov accommodates 151 people. This means that the government here will integrate thousands and thousands of other illegal Islamic immigrants, and now it has allocated more than 1 billion. The crown, and everything happens against the will of the citizens. Of course, Kostelec nad Orlicí is a town with a population of over 6,000 inhabitants. So how do you plan on putting about half of the quota you agreed to? This means that there will be more than a quarter of those Islamic migrants and other people who have illegally infiltrated the territory of the European Union compared to the number of indigenous peoples. And again, we say it's madness. We must not allow such a concentration of migrants in one place, especially in the Czech Republic. And again, in the context of today's Brussels events, I ask you to introduce zero tolerance for illegal immigration into the Czech Republic, and I ask you to ensure that no radical adherents of Islam enter the territory of the Czech Republic. And if you can't secure it, stop immigration to the Czech Republic. Refuse the quotas, refuse, stand up to the European Union, dear government, because you cannot ensure the security of the citizens of the Czech Republic. Muslim migrants from Africa and the Middle East are clearly a huge security, criminal and social threat to the Czech Republic. I have here quotes from the citizens of Kostelec nad Orlicí who are already complaining about the way the current migrants are already acting there. They steal in stores, etc. And I get a lot of those letters from desperate people. It is quite comical how the government approaches this in terms of ensuring security in Kostelec nad Orlicí. In the future, the local department is to be strengthened by 28 police officers. When we divide them into three shifts and into two cities that have a gesture, i.e., Kostelec and the neighbouring Vamberk, it comes to strengthening by 9 police officers. And I'm not talking about one of them taking a vacation or getting sick. This means that both the House and the government should deal intensively with measures in the future with the thousands of people, the thousands of illegal immigrants that you have agreed against the will of the people, and what they will do in our territory. It's absolutely unthinkable that we're building a Muslim ghetto here, and I'm asking you again to agree on this program point so that we can discuss it urgently here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-000-000.u5	Your time, Mr. Ambassador. Only if you don't mind, information for all my colleagues and colleagues, I have an application with the priority right of Minister Chovanec. I'm sure he'll keep you informed after the program's approved. Next in line, please, and that is Mr Radim Fiala. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-000-000.u6	Thank you for the floor. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the following item be placed on the agenda for this meeting: the situation in the Moravian-Silesian Region in connection with mass redundancies in OKD. Allow me to justify this very briefly. The situation in the north of Moravia is getting dramatically worse. Almost every day we hear the statements of important actors about the upcoming collapse of a key employer in the region, OKD. The ministers of this government have no solution. Instead, they argue publicly among themselves on this subject in an effort to gain some political points. The former owner has been relieved of responsibility and is the owner who acquired OKD, which is the subject of the current court. The former officials of the National Property Fund and the expert were to cause damage to the State at least 5,7 billion by their actions. Crowns. The defendants reject their guilt, referring to the instructions of the then Minister of Finance and contemporary Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, as well as the then Minister of Industry and Trade, Mr Milan Urban. Let the court decide the guilt. However, we in the Chamber of Deputies need to address the imminent chaining of problems in the Moravian-Silesian region, in which unemployment is already 8.5 percent, the second highest in the Republic. OKD, these are not just tens of thousands of jobs in Ostrava and Karvinsko, they are also tens of thousands of people whose work depends on the money that this company and its employees spend on their wages. Where today's unemployment rate would climb after a possible crash is totally unacceptable. All of this can be even more combined with the placement of illegal Islamic immigrants in the region. It is against these problems, for example. so-called Chapi's nest case is a completely marginal problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-000-000.u7	Thank you. And the last person to sign up for the program so far is Mr. Holík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-000-000.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in view of today's events, I propose the inclusion of a new item in the opinion of the Chamber of Deputies on the immigration policy of the Government of the Czech Republic. As part of the discussion, we propose the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Czech Government to stop the reception of illegal Islamic immigrants immediately -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-000-000.u9	Mr Member, I am very sorry, but the five minutes you have are for the sake of your motion, but not for the motion for a resolution. You can then do this, if the item is approved, in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-000-000.u10	Give me space, just one more sentence. Let me justify it. Two explosions shook up the departure hall of Brussels airport today. The media is talking about dozens of dead and injured. According to witnesses, Arab screams and shootings were heard before the explosion. Other explosions occurred in the Brussels subway. Unfortunately, the actions of most European politicians lead to an increase in the risk of further terrorist attacks and Islam rather than to reduce this risk. We say that Europe is facing an attempt to occupy by radical Islam. The European Union's policy, as well as our government, is responsible for this situation. Its multicultural plans and its plans for the integration of millions of Muslims in Europe. That is why we must act today as Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic. If we don't, then we can choose if another bomb goes off on the Bridge or at the Museum.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-000-000.u11	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else has proposals to change the agenda of the meeting. It's not like that. At this point, I propose this procedure. We would vote on Mr Černoch's proposal, which I see as counter-proposal from the Gremium, as the first proposal, then we would vote on the proposal from the Gremium, if there is no objection, as a whole. We would then vote on Mr Okamura's proposal to include a new point, also with Mr Radim Fiala, and then on Mr Holík's new point. I'm asking if there's a general agreement with this. There is no objection. We will therefore vote on Mr Černoch's counter-proposal to include paragraph 202, the migration crisis, first. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 338, to which 160 are registered, for 48, against 65. The motion was denied. [[14.20 hours]] We will therefore now vote on the proposals from Gremium as a whole. Initiating vote. I ask who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order 339, to which 161 are registered, for 155, against 1. The motion was accepted. With priority right, the chairman of the club ČSSD Roman Sklenák. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-000-000.u12	Thank you for your word and good day, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Social Democracy Club and YES 2011, I am vetoing the inclusion of the points that have been proposed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-000-000.u13	Yes, therefore, the veto has been applied to all the points presented by Mr Okamura, Mr Radim Fiala and Mr Holík, and at this point we can address the approved programme and negotiations according to it. I just want to point out that the overview of the unnegotiated items approved by the 42nd session has been distributed to you on the bench, and I remind you that tomorrow at 15.30 the 43rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will begin. And now I beg you with the Prime Minister's priority right. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-000-000.u14	Madam President, honourable Members, I would like to provide you with brief but perhaps comprehensive information on the knowledge of the Czech Government and the Czech security forces on attacks in Belgium. Before I give this information, let me also, through Madam President, answer several previous speakers that perhaps the Czech Government has not taken security seriously in the past. I would like to remind you that it was the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Bohuslav Sobotka, myself and colleague Zaorálek, who at all the forums, during the debate in Brussels, Luxembourg, during the debate on migration, during the debate on quotas, stressed the aspect of security and stressed the risks arising from it. We were one of the few who accentated this and clearly said this. This morning after the attacks that were controlled, which were synchronized, which were in several places in Brussels, the Czech police introduced extensive security measures that de facto correspond to a degree one on a scale recently approved by the government, i.e. a level one - the risk of a terrorist attack. It's the first degree. We have no information that the Czech Republic is currently in danger and we communicate across the security community with all partner countries. The Czech police are now, at these moments, present to a greater extent in places such as international airports, not only Prague's, but all international airports, metro. We are present where there is a greater number of inhabitants, whether they are cultural events or events of a different type. There is increased security of several interest embassys, that is, embassys, where the performance of the service has been strengthened. I will not specify, but these are more than two embassies currently. We met at 12 o'clock on the Prime Minister's instructions for some sort of security briefing. I have informed my colleagues and the Prime Minister that I have declared level one, as the Minister of the Interior has been given the mandate, that the subsequent government will either confirm this level, or may extend it or cancel it. Furthermore, we asked the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic to convene a government that would decide on the involvement of members of the Army of the Czech Republic in the performance of the Police of the Czech Republic. The Prime Minister has complied with this request. The government is meeting today at eight o'clock, which means there's a chance to discuss both the security degree, i.e. its retention in force, or any extension or any other change. At the same time, negotiations are now under way between the police and the army on the scope of assistance from the Army of the Czech Republic towards the police. There are important international visits to the Czech Republic. There are events ahead of us and we want to be prepared. That's why we decided to ask the army. The army has no problem with this, and I expect police patrols to strengthen the number of several hundred men in the Army of the Czech Republic. Personally, I would very much like the army to be present on the Czech streets, in Czech cities, of course in the territory of the whole Czech Republic. It is not just a question of Prague. It is a question of all major cities in the territory of the Czech Republic and Moravia. From next morning, that means from tomorrow morning, we'd like the army to be involved. I would therefore like to stress that all this I am talking about is preventive measures. I don't want to scare the citizens of the Czech Republic. There is no information that there is a real danger for citizens of the Czech Republic in the Czech Republic. Of course, the situation is different abroad. Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek clearly defined that he asks and warns citizens of the Czech Republic to consider their trips to Brussels to limit or avoid them during security measures. In Brussels, at present, and in Belgium, level four applies. It can be predicted that there will be closure or limitation of passage at the border between Belgium and France, and the security forces of these countries are on high alert. We spoke to our partners in Slovakia, Hungary. Maďar are likely to proceed to stage two, the Slovák will activate measures within stage one as well as we will. We are also prepared to check the internal borders of the Czech Republic if we obtain intelligence or security information that some persons involved in these terrorist attacks are moving across Europe and could enter the territory of the Czech Republic. Likewise, there is currently increased control at our Schengen borders, i.e. at airports. I hope, honourable Members, that I have said the utmost that can be said at present. So the government will be discussing at eight o'clock another penzion of information it will receive. Our secret services, whether it's BIS, UZSI, or Military Intelligence, work with their partners and get information throughout the day. Thank you for your attention and, if necessary, I am ready to add to the debate that may be - in the debate on migration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-000-000.u15	Thank you, Minister. With priority rights, please contact the microphone of Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-000-000.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let me just briefly add to what has been said by the Minister of the Interior, because when it comes to Brussels, of course, this is a matter which is internal policy. But in the case of Brussels, it has an additional dimension. Because, you know, there are about 4,000 Czech citizens in Brussels. This is a place that is absolutely extraordinary in terms of the movement of our citizens. Even in Brussels, at the time of the explosion at the airport, the airport and the aircraft in which the Czech citizens were still in it, because it was not possible to get off the aircraft. So I'm here now to tell you that I can't confirm to you until now, and I can't comment on whether there is a Czech citizen among the injured and unfortunately the dead, because the Belgian party has not yet been able to provide the necessary data to us, not just to us, but to anyone. So until now, we still don't know. In any case, however, what the Minister of the Interior has said here is true, and I would like to repeat this once again: I would really like to turn to Czech citizens and recommend that they postpone the journey to Brussels today, these days, until the security situation changes fundamentally. And the one that was said here is at the highest risk level. It should be noted that in Brussels, mass transport, including train transport, is stopped today, that flights are diverted, and that even the Belgian crisis crew and the Belgian crisis centre do not recommend anyone travelling to the citizens of Brussels. So even for our citizens, I'd like to know this and not go to Brussels at this point. At the same time, I would recommend to those who are there that they restrict their movement to the capital of Belgium and avoid public spaces. I would like to recommend to everyone the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where we will inform in detail about the situation. I believe that the normal situation in Belgium will be restored quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-22-ps2013-042-09-000-000.u17	Thank you. Since I no longer see any other application with priority rights, we will address the point
