ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u1	32. Government bill on public procurement / House print 637/ - second reading in which Mrs Jana Černochová is the first to enter into a detailed debate. You have your word, colleague. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Madam Secretary, dear colleagues, since I did not sign up for the general debate to justify the matters I have put forward in writing, please allow me to try to be brief, to justify the amendments contained in my amendment under number 3583. There's a total of six points. One point concerns § 38 para. The second point concerns Article 38 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 20 Directive No 20 of the European Parliament and of the Council 2014/24/EU, on the award of public contracts and repealing Directive 2004/18/EC and Directive - just all documents relating to tendering procedures. The award directives provide - I quote: "Member States may reserve the right to participate in procurement procedures for protected workshops and economic operators whose main objective is the social and professional integration of persons with disabilities or disadvantaged persons, or may reserve the performance of public contracts under protected employment programmes, provided that at least 30% of the staff of such workshops, economic operators or programmes are persons with disabilities or persons disadvantaged'. This is clearly an erroneous transposition of a directive against the interests of disabled or otherwise disadvantaged citizens of the Czech Republic. According to the draft law, employment of at least 50 per cent of disabled persons is required, while the award directive requires only 30 per cent of disabled persons or disadvantaged persons in this respect. According to the draft law, there is also a narrowing of the range of suppliers possible to carry out dedicated contracts for those employing other groups of disadvantaged persons. It is clear that the proposal is, in this regard, antisocial and, at the same time, against the substantive intention of the Social Entrepreneurship Act. At the same time, by limiting the range of potential competitors, it limits competition and discriminates particularly against small and medium-sized employers. The proposed amendment removes at least partial deficiencies and reduces the number of workers affected to the level of the contract directive. I'm not going to read you the exact text, I'm referring to the fact that I put it properly into the system. The third amendment proposed by me is the amendment to Section 40, where I propose to repeal paragraph 40. 4 because I believe that this is a very non-standard provision that goes beyond the European award directives. Once again, we are more papal than the pope, because according to the current legislation, the deadline for the contract is limited to the termination of the offer, but the contracting authority is still entitled to complete the tender procedure and sign the contract with the selected contractor, thereby preventing the destruction of the purpose and costs of the procurement procedure. However, according to the draft law submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, regardless of the intention of the contracting authority and the selected contractor, the procurement procedure is automatically terminated. At the same time, the contracting authority should be obliged to pay all tenderers the costs according to the draft law. It is not specified what is considered to be cost-effectively incurred and even these costs are not limited in any way, which you can imagine is what will mean in practice. The contracting authority may thus be exposed to unrealistic claims by participants, even those who did not have a chance to obtain the contract, or even who could contribute to the futile flow of the contract period by not providing synergies or not giving consent to the extension of the contract pursuant to § 40 para. 3. Once again, I will not read the exact change in the text, as I suggest. The penultimate point I propose in this amendment concerns Paragraph 79 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (a) when the words: "in full scope of the contract" shall be replaced by "in so far as it has contributed to the supply, service or construction work"; My opinion is that the proposal for this provision is not a transposition of the procurement directive. At the same time, the provision introduces an inequality between forms of participation in the procurement procedure when the parties to the "association' are fully recognised by the reference contract, but only the part which they have participated in, although in fact, materially, is recognised as the same situation. The draft provision allows a supplier who has participated in the association's performance of the reference contract, albeit only in a minimum part, to make full use of this reference for the demonstration of technical qualifications. By allowing this option at the same time, there is a strong departure from existing decision-making practice - we know who I mean by practice, I mean the Office for Competition Protection and our courts - according to which such supplier has the opportunity to apply only his percentage, i.e. the scope of the work carried out by the contractor for the implementation of the reference contract as a participant of the association, which is a company without legal personality, was indeed involved, not the full scope of the contract. The provision presents a great risk to municipalities - and, of course, I too am a municipal politician, and I am concerned about how this standard will be implemented in practice - municipalities which award major public contracts in the rule of law on a rare basis and do not have detailed specific procurement conditions. The contracting authorities should be able to rely on the functionality of the demonstration of technical qualifications under the statutory regime, even if the possibility of applying this legislation is left to contracting entities to exclude or modify the procurement documents. However, the proposed provision is non-standard and high-risk for the reasons set out and cited by me above. It cannot be relied upon that, in particular, the occasional contracting authorities shall estimate or determine in advance the risks of this statutory regulation and make use of the possibility of derogating from the arrangements, and shall subsequently qualify in the procurement procedure suppliers who are not objectively qualified to carry out the contract. The proposed change eliminates the discrimination described and complies with the existing best practice. Again, I will not read to you exactly the wording of the paragraph I propose to amend. [[17.50 hours]] On the fifth point, which is part eight, I propose to delete Title IV, including Section 186, on the ground that this is a specific regulation relating only to local authorities and concession contracts that go beyond the European concession directive. Thus, an unequal approach is applied when the obligation to seek the opinion in question does not affect other contracting authorities and effectively constitutes an intervention in the guaranteed right of municipalities and regions to self-government. All local politicians should really pay attention here. At the same time, the legislation itself merely prescribes an obligation to request an opinion in advance without specifying the consequences of this opinion on the conclusion or amendment of a contract for municipalities and regions, i.e. whether or to what extent the outcome of this assessment is binding or associated with the consequences. However, for the issue of an opinion it is necessary to take account of at least a two-month period, as set out in Section 186 (2) of the EC Treaty. 6 of the proposal, which may be extended if requested by the Ministry of Finance. This is therefore only an administrative step which has no legal obligation for the regions and municipalities, while it represents an unnecessary administration for both the regions, municipalities and the Ministry of Finance itself and extends the procurement process itself. If the purpose is to obtain statistical data, then such data can be obtained by the Ministry of Finance in a different way, for example from the Public Procurement Bulletin or in the future from the register of contracts. The proposal for this provision did not go through an assessment from the perspective of the effects of RIA and the impacts associated with this institute were neither properly considered from the point of view of effectiveness and proportionality. At the same time, the effort to simplify, streamline and unbiased the procurement procedures was one of the main objectives in preparing the new adjustment. Last but not least, it should be recalled that the failure to comply with this obligation, which, as I said, is indeed rather a formal step, threatens the municipalities and the regions to be disproportionately punished because the failure to seek this opinion falls under an administrative offence pursuant to § 267 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) a draft law for which there is a fine of 10 per cent of the contract, respectively. concessions or up to 20 million. CZK, if the total price of the contract cannot be established. I'm sure you can imagine the impact this could have on municipal budgets. My sixth point contained in Amendment 3583 concerns § 222 para. 5 where I propose to delete the words 'the need of which the contracting authority, acting with due care, could not foresee'. The reasons which should be raised here in my proposal are such that the categories of amendments provided for in paragraph 1. 5 of the draft law includes changes where there is a need for additional works, supplies or services necessary to complete the original contract, and a change of supplier would be difficult or would cause a significant increase in costs. This is, for example, a situation where the contracting authority provided the contractor with a statement of dimensions, but it will be shown during the construction that the statement of estimates did not contain certain items necessary to complete the construction. In practice, such situations occur fairly commonly, because objectively it is not always possible or useful in the preparation of the project in an absolutely exhaustive detail to determine in advance how many items and what will be necessary to complete the construction. I speak from my own experience, when we are really in the mode of conservation and some of these multi-work results from the requirement of conservationists. Problems occur typically, for example, in reconstructions or larger infrastructure and technological buildings, where accurate determination of statements is virtually impossible in advance. No, I'm not gonna mention Blanka. In addition to the necessity of the government, the additional condition introduces, in addition to the requirement of Article 72 of the Procurement Directive, the need to justify and demonstrate that the contracting authority acting with due care could not actually anticipate the need for change in the future. If the contracting authority is not able to justify this unpredictability according to the requirements of the supervisory authorities, which in practice is often driven by the audit authorities until extreme interpretations, we all know that, it will not be able to legally make the change, although the changes are necessary for completion and their implementation is economical and effective, since the amendment of the law does not offer any legal means to make such changes - unlike European directives and practices common abroad. This may therefore be a relatively significant administrative obstacle to the use of European funds, which is created exclusively by national decisions. And I wonder if it's a shame. This is therefore the removal of administrative bureaucratic burdens and a potentially bullying instrument for the exercise of public power typically vis-à-vis contracting entities who do not have a professional apparatus. It is again me several times today mentioned SMEs, which have received a subsidy from European funds, or even small municipalities, and which goes beyond the European procurement directives, and I think that it is completely unnecessary. Colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary, thank you for your attention and I ask you to support my amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u3	Thank you, Mrs Jana Černochová. We are now continuing the detailed debate with the speech of Mr Ivan Adamec, and Mrs Soňa Marková will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u4	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief. I will apply to the amendments to the press 637, which have been tabled in writing and are referred to as House documents Nos 3598 and 3600. To remind you what it is, 3598 - it is a simplified procedure for the award of sublime public contracts. This is about not going beyond the European directive unnecessarily in this bill. The second, 3600, concerns in general the use of electronic tools in public procurement. I refer to my speech in the general debate. I beg the support of these amendments, and I believe that, despite the initial negative attitude of the Minister, the next time we have it here, there may be other conclusions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u5	I thank Mr Ivan Adamc. The words will be taken by Mrs Soňa Marková and Mr Jan Klán will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, let me just sign up for my amendment because I have already justified it in the general debate. So I'm signing up for House Document 3597. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u7	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Jan Klán now. Mr. Ambassador Chvojka will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, allow me to sign up for my amendment as House Document No 3615. I have already justified it in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u9	I thank Mr Klán. Now, Mr Jan Chvojka, Mr Antonín Seďa will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I, as well as my colleagues, have justified my amendment in the general debate, so I just want to sign up to it and say that it is registered in the system under number 3580. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u11	I thank Mr Chvojka. Now, Mr Antonín Seďa, Mr Lukáš Pleticha will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Madam Secretary, colleagues, colleagues, I am signing up for my amendments under the Houses of Documents 3590 and 3591. In both cases, this is an alternative amendment to Section 193 Supply Security. The House document 3590 is supplemented by a new point (e) in paragraph 2, and the House document 3591 amends paragraph 2 (a). Only for the rapporteur - then vote optionally. And only a brief explanation of the amendment, which is therefore given. Just briefly. The Office for Defence Standardization, Cataloguing and State Quality Verification, which was established by Act No. 309/2000 Coll., implements quality control for defence and security. The Office checks the quality of products and services supplied to the Ministry of Defence, or to other departments and administrative offices of the Czech Republic. The quality of supplies carried out abroad shall be verified by the partner offices on the basis of the requirement applied by the Office. The mutual provision of this service shall be governed by the standardization agreement STANAG 4107 between the Member States of the North Atlantic Alliance. The Office shall have a bilateral agreement with certain other non-Member States. However, this agreement is not concluded with all countries, so it is important to regulate clear legal support for limiting the production site of the product by a circle of countries where the production of the product and quality control can take place. Thank you for your attention and for any support for the amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u13	Thank you, Mr Seďa. Now, the rapporteur with his amendment. Mr Kolovratník will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u14	Mr President, fellow Members, I did not report to the general debate, but I also have amendments which I will briefly justify. So I'm applying to my amendment, which is put into the system under number 3596. This concerns the addition of a special procedure for libraries to purchase books and other information resources into library funds. I also refer to my Amendment 3601, which is almost identical to Mrs Marková's amendment, just adding one paragraph and adding that the procedure for disabled people cannot be applied to certain types of supply, in competition dialogue, in innovative partnerships, and especially to project work. I also refer to the amendment under number 3608, which relates to Section 67, which complements paragraph 3, which relates to trading on commodity exchanges, and that in this case it is a procedure under the applicable Commodity Exchange Act. It is also Amendment 3612, which follows the same thing that was presented here in the general debate by a colleague of Jiří Petrů, but it is based on valid legislation and the wording of the Act on Commodity Exchanges. Finally, I declare the fourth amendment 3609, which increases the price increase to 50 per cent in accordance with the European Directive in Section 222 (8). Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u15	I thank Mr Lukáš Pletich. Mr Martin Kolovratník will now take the floor, Mrs Berdychová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u16	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, good evening. I will try to be very brief and apply to my two amendments. I was not enrolled in the general debate, so in two sentences approximate content. The first is the amendment, which is listed under number 3605 in the system. It relates to § 223 and only specifies the situation in which the contracting authority may withdraw from the contract terminate the contractual obligation, which specifies the provision in the sense that this should be done no later than six months after it finds the operative event. It is inspired by the effort to make the legal environment, the relationship balanced on the part of the contracting entities and suppliers. It is also inspired by the same objective period of six months already in valid legal practice, where, for example, the Office for Competition decides to impose a ban on the performance of the contract, and it is even exactly the same design as in the same law applied in neighbouring Germany or Austria. So that's my Amendment 3605. The other one, I personally consider it more important and essential, but I beg your support for both. I therefore apply to Amendment 3606. It deals with § 242, namely the date until which it is possible to object to the content of the procurement procedure. According to current practice, and so far also proposed, it is possible to do so up to five working days after the end of each period. I think it is wrong that when the deadline is over, when the decision is made, the objections should no longer be filed, and the information from practice is that it is sometimes abused by competitors. In other words, when I make it a lot easier, somehow they learn the results of the selection procedure, and then only during those five working days they object. So that's what I think we should remove. So I am still applying to Amendment 3606, and I beg your support and your support, Madam Secretary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u17	Thank you, Mr Kolovratník. Now Mrs Martina Berdychová will take the floor, Mr Klaška will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am signing up for an amendment under number 3584. I submit this amendment at the initiative of the People in Need organization, which carries out humanitarian aid abroad and uses foreign funds to do so. The adaptation of Paragraph 4 (2) is proposed, which defines the contracting authority. The proposal proposes to exempt from the law of the contracting authority which uses a higher amount of funds provided from the budget of the European Union or of the public budget of a foreign State to pay the contract, provided that such a contract is implemented outside the territory of the European Union. Both funds and agencies of foreign states are experienced providers of funds for activities carried out outside the European Union, they know in detail both the specifics of the target countries and the specifics given by the identification of funds and therefore have their own rules for the selection of suppliers, often in the light of the above specifics. Moreover, these are providers where the total amounts of funds coming into countries outside the European Union are in tens of billions of euros. In a situation where the provider requires its own rules for the selection of suppliers, which are binding on contracting entities as well as the Czech legal standard, collisions and conflicts between binding regulations occur logically, and these conflicts often do not have good solutions. A significant proportion of the appropriations to countries outside the European Union are humanitarian or development aid. It is therefore most appropriate for potential contracts to be carried out by local suppliers. The rules of foreign and supranational service agencies allow and favour that procedure. Rather, the current Czech legal standard is not. I therefore propose this amendment, which will make it easier for humanitarian organisations to implement foreign financial assistance in non-European countries. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u19	Thank you, Mrs Berdychová. Mr Klaška will now take the floor. I'm asking my colleague Velebný if he's applying for a point of fact. Only duly entered into a detailed debate. Okay. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u20	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, fellow Members, allow me to apply to several amendments. The first is mentioned in House document 3613. A brief justification is that my proposed regulation responds to frequent obstructive negotiations by suppliers who object to procurement conditions only after the opening of tenders, when it is clear how they stand, and only then challenge alleged non-transparency or discriminatory procurement conditions. In my amendment, it is proposed that the time limit for the submission of objections to the procurement conditions should end together with the end of the period for the submission of objections, so that the supplier of the complainant should oppose the procurement conditions when the contracting authority can still really change the procurement conditions. The second amendment, which I propose, is set out in the House Document No 3614 and consists of repealing paragraph 6 in Section 62 and the following paragraphs 7 and 8 are amended as 6 and 7. [[18.10 hours]] Justification: Paragraph 262 addresses measures against the bad practice of the contracting authority in the settlement of objections. The original proposal shall provide that, if the contracting authority fails to reply to the objections within the time limit, it shall risk both the cancellation of the act and the procurement procedure inexhaustibly within the time limit. Where the competition authority initiates proceedings, the contested action and the following actions and/or the entire procurement procedure shall be cancelled without any discretion. The complainant's rights are sufficiently secured until the contracting authority responds to the objections, it cannot conclude a contract within an eight-day period thereafter. In addition, within 19 days the objector may object to the UOHS. Another House document or amendment is set out in the Chambers of Document 3616 and it is reserved public contracts, when I propose a new version of Section 38. Justification: The proposed text maintains the current practice of dedicated contracts only for suppliers employing more than 50 per cent of disabled workers. However, the new Union directive extends the conditions for dedicated contracts. So far, the government's proposal does not reflect on this extension. The new paragraph 3 is based on Article 20 of the European Directive, which allows the provision of a public contract for suppliers who employ more than 30% of persons not only disabled but also disadvantaged persons on the labour market. These persons, within the meaning of point 36 of the preamble to the European Directive, are unemployed persons, members of disadvantaged minorities or otherwise socially excluded groups. The amendment aims to support social enterprises integrating into the labour process and persons disadvantaged. For the sake of clarification, the proposed concept of dedicated public procurement is a completely different matter from the infamous practice of abuse of protected workshops for price advantage in evaluation by 15 per cent in sublime contracts. Reserved contracts are a directive that is proven and contributes to the implementation of the social policy of contracting authorities and the integration of disadvantaged persons into the labour process. The penultimate amendment is set out in the Chambers of Document 3617 and amends § 4 para. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to: In addition to the directive, this amendment leaves a limit of CZK 200 million for subsidised buildings and related services. The proposed regulation takes into account the general obligation of the beneficiaries to award supplies, services and sublime works pursuant to the Law in the award of subsidised contracts paid in total from more than 50 per cent of the public resources. However, the subsidy provider will be able to reserve under the conditions of the subsidy that the subsidised entity is obliged to enter under the law. It is sufficient if it refers to the procedure under § 4 para. 4 according to which the beneficiary will follow the law, although he would not otherwise be obliged to do so. The full detailed justification is part of House document 3617. Finally, my last amendment, which I have read in the House document under number 3618. It amends § 4 by inserting a new paragraph 3 after paragraph 2, including footnotes 3 and 4. Justification: Within the framework of the implementation of the common agricultural policy, beneficiaries of agricultural subsidies are exposed to broad competition across the European Community. The Czech Republic, as a Member State, is deprived of the possibility of intervening in favour of farmers by leaving the existing adjustment of the subsidized contracting authority. That is all, thank you for your attention and please support my amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u21	Thank you, Mr Klašek. Now, Mr Leo Luzar, Mr Jiří Petrů will prepare. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join the House of Press 3472 introduced into the system. If I could, I would also ask the Minister, in the final words, to mention those co-submitters of this material whose views will be taken into account in the settlement of comments and amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u23	I thank Mr Luzar. Now, Mr. Jiří Petrů, Mr. Ludvík Hovorka will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to subscribe to the amendments that are registered in the electronic system under the numbers 3575 and 3604. They also contain justifications. And, Mr President, I would also like to apply to the amendments made by Jan Birke, who is duly excused for health reasons, and I would therefore apply to his amendments made in the electronic system as 3435, 3437, 3438 and 3599. These amendments also have reasons in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u25	I thank Mr Jiří Petr. Now, Mr Ludvík Hovorka, Mr Petr Kudela will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. I hereby submit to the amendments that I have put into the system under number 3620. These are four amendments. I'll comment on them briefly. Amendment one. In Section 36, the following paragraph 9 is added: "The contracting authority for a public works contract shall lay down trading conditions in accordance with implementing law. The Implementing Regulation provides for the wording of the terms and conditions of trade. The terms and conditions shall be binding on the supplier and its potential subcontractors.' Reason: The existence of commercial conditions in the form of an implementing regulation should be maintained, and it should be clearly defined as to what those trading conditions are intended to sound like. It is necessary to protect suppliers and potential subcontractors through objectively set business conditions. Compliance with the implementing Regulation gives the contracting authority the possibility, where justified, to deviate slightly from the text in the implementing Regulation. Other legal systems, such as the German system, choose a similar protection regime. A clear and complete version of the business conditions in the Implementing Regulation is intended to contribute to the legal certainty of suppliers and subcontractors in the performance of public contracts. Another amendment. In Article 36 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions shall apply: The following sentence shall be added: "The contracting authority shall be responsible for the correctness and completeness of the procurement conditions.' The reasoning is that the procurement documents should be made up in such a way as to be as precise and as clear as possible and as far as possible, it is not necessary to apply the Institute of Additional Information. In addition, the contracting authority is often represented and the procurement documents are made up of a third party. It is all the more difficult to track down the responsible person, whom it may be possible to punish for incorrect procurement documents. The clarity and accuracy of this document is essential to the applicant and should therefore be up to the contracting authority to ensure and answer for it. The existing wording in the Regulation is not quite clear, therefore it should be formulated more precisely. Third amendment. In Article 29, paragraph 2 is (k) read: " (k) in the case of legal services: 1. which is provided by a lawyer in the context of representing a client in a judicial, arbitration, conciliation or administrative proceedings before a court, tribunal or other public authority or in proceedings before an international dispute resolution authority, provided that the estimated value of the legal service provided does not exceed CZK 2 million, 2. which the lawyer provides in the preparation of the proceedings referred to (?) in point 1, or where circumstances indicate that the case in question is highly likely to be the subject of the proceedings referred to in point 1, if the estimated value of the legal service provided does not exceed CZK 2 million, 3. which must be provided by a notary on the basis of another legislation - a reference to paragraph 10 - in the context of certification and verification of documents - or 4. where, under another legislation - a reference to paragraph 11 - occasionally exercised by a supplier of public authority.' [[18.20 hours]] The reason for this is that the exception to legal services in the existing draft law threatens to be abused by suppliers and prices for legal services will be set at disproportionately provided services. The law should at least make an exception so as not to abuse it. The exemption should not then be designed against the existing adjustment in such a way that it is completely excluded from the criterion of economic advantage and suitability, i.e. the lowest price criteria. The outcome of public procurement contracts for legal services should be to ensure a procurement procedure that takes into account the professional quality of the lawyer and his experience, which can be set, and at the same time does not place such an emphasis on a low price. In my opinion, complete price liberalisation is not entirely appropriate in the provision of legal services to contracting entities under the Public Procurement Act. The amendment therefore counts with the exception of which the value will be equal to small-scale public contracts. This justification is such that I know from practice a lot of examples when legal services were awarded e.g. In hospitals, in Homolka Hospital, without a legal service contract being awarded, and sometimes it wasn't even clear what was provided for the money. So the reason is clear, once the contract exceeds 2 million, a public contract should be awarded to legal services. The fourth amendment concerns § 113 para. 2 and is described in the system under number 3620. It concerns the justification for the exceptionally low bid price. The justification is that, in cases where a contracting authority does not set criteria for determining an exceptionally low bidding price, it is necessary to provide binding quantitative criteria in the law to assess an exceptionally low bidding price. The flexibility for the contracting authority is maintained by the possibility of setting its own criteria by the contracting authority. If a tender offers a price that does not guarantee the contracting authority a smooth completion of the contract, the contracting authority should make use of the extraordinarily low tender prices. It should be motivated and methodically guided to do so. One of the incentive instruments is the setting of clear limits at which the contracting authority is obliged to request clarification from the tenderer of an exceptionally low tender price. Moreover, those limits clearly indicate that the price complying with those limits may be extremely low, which should facilitate the setting of appropriate practice where contracting entities are not afraid of using extraordinarily low bidding prices in practice. That is all on my part and I ask that individual amendments be voted on separately. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u27	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Mr Petr Kudela will now take the floor, Mr Ladislav Okleštěk will prepare. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to apply briefly to my amendment, which is listed in the system under number 3625. And, as I said in the previous debate, it concerns the explicit condition that the contracting authority reserves the right to cancel the contract if it does not receive the subsidy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u29	I thank Mr Kudel. Now, Mr Ladislav Okleštěk, Mrs Milada Halíková will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I hereby subscribe to the amendments under House documents number 3429 - this proposal concerns the charging of filings to the UOHS. It is also House document 3433 concerning the transfer of time limits from work to calendar days. Furthermore, it is House document 3553 concerning the acceptance of electronic invoices, House document 3554 - which concerns the legisvacation period. It is then House document 3560, which refers to § 222, paragraph 7, and it is the counting of changes. It is also House document 3587, which concerns changes to the MMR consulted. Furthermore, it is House document 3607, which refers again to § 222 and there is a reduction of the total increased cost of ordering 30 percent. It is also House document 3610, which concerns § 104, and it is the specification of the documents that are necessary to produce the ownership structure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u31	I thank Mr Oklešťek. Now, Mrs Milada Halíková, my colleague Fichtner will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, as I announced in my speech in the general debate, I entered an amendment under number 3622, to which I hereby sign up. The proposed amendment concerns § 67, where a new point is added. We have both the text and the justification in writing. Once again, Amendment 3622. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u33	Thank you, Mrs Halíková. My colleague Fichtner isn't here, so his application falls to the end. Mr Velebný's application for a factual remark - he tells me that the application for a detailed debate is not here either. It's done, all right. So my colleagues weren't here, so we're done. And the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura reporting. We are still in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u34	Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask the rapporteur, in particular, for two figures before the final word. Firstly, how many amendments have been tabled and how many are from the workshop itself of the Ministry, the Government Members and how many are from the workshop of the opposition Members. The quality of this text is indicated by the fact that the Minister has brought dozens of amendments to his ministry to his own text on committees. When I looked at the list of Members' names, who adopted the amendments in writing, which are in the system, the vast majority are from among the government coalitions. I fully respect that, I see no problem, but this clearly shows the quality of the text. We're hearing sentences like this again - if you don't approve, Brusel will stop us from paying. I don't want to hear it anymore, I really don't. Someone seriously wants to tell me that Brusel has nothing to do but bully us about the EIA or public contracts in the face of a migration crisis? Are those Brussels bureaucrats really saving up on us and throwing sticks at us? Of these amendments, I would like to point out one proposal from a government Member, which I think is absolutely incredible, and I firmly believe that the Minister will be the first to oppose, and that is that the law will take effect seven days after it comes out in the Collection of Laws. So it took the government two years since it worked here before it came to the third reading. My guess for these changelings is over a hundred. Even those few days until the third reading is a deadline for us because there is still a meeting tomorrow and the day after tomorrow to get to know it and take a stand on how we will vote on this incredible number of amendments. And someone here is suggesting that after a text comes out that we don't know today what shape it's going to be in the Collection of Laws, in seven days thousands of contracting entities are going to award public contracts under the new law. He's making fun of us, not us, he's making fun of the contracting authorities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u35	No one is entered into a detailed debate. If I see no one from the point of view, I am ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Madam Secretary is interested. Please, Minister Karla Šlechtová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the constructive debate that we have had here together. I believe that the new Public Procurement Act will be good. I believe that for the contracting authority, no matter what days it will be effective, it will be a law that will lighten their entire contracting environment. And I believe that because I spoke to them personally and we discussed a lot of sections. I am glad for some of the amendments you have tabled. I am also glad for all the debates that we have had together outside the Chamber of Deputies, and I must say also in my group, and I am glad that Members have gone and participated, although I am responsible for the executives only to the Chamber of Deputies. However, the willingness of some Members was very high and I am really happy for that. Personally, I would like to mention this idea: Yes, I am a rookie, I am not a politician, I am here for a year and something. However, I believe that laws this difficult, and especially when it is a new law, should be created in cooperation with legislators. Whoever here in the Chamber of Deputies thinks of this, I am glad to have set up a group of Members and Senators last January. And I'm also glad to see who you went there. I'd like to thank you and look forward to the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u37	Thank you. I ask if there is an interest in the final word, as well as the rapporteur. Yes, he's interested. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u38	Mr President, fellow Members, I must apologise to my colleague Stanjur. I have recorded 36 amendments here in the system. As I looked at them, some of them are dubling and tripling, some of them are different, for example, I'd say it's so popular, half a tooth or two teeth, so they're very similar in something and something else. And now the statistics on how many of the government's coalitions and opposition are, so I can't figure out where you're going right now. But I'm sure you'll do the math. Now, as far as my intelligence duties are concerned, I will say that there has been no suggestion that certain provisions be discussed separately. And that's what I think of this House press right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-008-032.u39	Thank you. So there is no motion for a vote at the end of second reading. I'm done with point number one. 32 and initiating interrupted point No. 33 in a detailed debate. But before I do, I have new apologies, plus apologies that haven't been read yet. So first, Mr. Šarapatka's colleague from 17.45 until the end of the negotiations. Minister Daniel Herman from 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. From 17.30 to 23.59 Mr. Martin Sedlář. Mrs Matušovská from 17 to the end of the day of the hearing. At 13:00, the Prime Minister apologizes. From 16 a.m. to the end of the meeting day, Minister of Transport Dan Ťok. Until the end of the sitting day from 19:00, Mr Roman Procházka. From 14.30 to 16.30, Mr Leoš Heger apologized. And from 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. Mrs. Jitka Chalánková. So we will now consider a detailed debate on the interrupted point.
