ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u1	201. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations The first intervention is the interpelation of Ms Jana Fischerová to the Minister of the Environment present in the case of out-of-court dispute settlement with the dismissed and expelled employees of the Czech Environmental Inspection and in the case of delays in the selection procedure for the Director of the Inspection. Interpelations shall be submitted together with the reply as a print of 674. The discussion of this response has been suspended. I am opening the debate and giving the floor to Mrs Fischerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u2	Thank you very much for your word. I am glad to have the Minister of the Environment here, unlike all the others who have been appointed today, that they are excused. I'm so glad to be able to intersect Minister Brabec from face to face through the microphone. I will mention my intervention, which, as has been said by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, was already sent to the hands of the Minister of the Environment on 12 November 2015 and now I have the opportunity to respond to when he replied in writing to me. I tried, Minister, to speak to you on the 21st of January, but you were duly excused. I understand that, so now I'm glad you're here today, and I'm getting to the point. Thank you in any case for the details in your answer, but I cannot be completely satisfied with the clarity and correctness of your answer. Now I'm going to say why, I'm going to make a few arguments about what I've read and how I'm reacting to it. Even for the clarity of all the Members of Parliament, even though there are few, I would like to introduce you to this, only on the points that ran. The main thing is Czech environmental inspection. On the other hand, I take the appeal of some senior executives and the appointment of the director of the Czech Environmental Inspection, Mr.Erik Geuss, D engineer, director of the Czech Environmental Inspection outside the Civil Service Act. That's the main gros I'm going to be talking about in detail right now. The key problem, namely the appointment of Director Geuss of the Czech Environmental Inspection, was 1. 12. 2014 under Section 33 of the Labour Code, although according to the legal interpretation of the Ministry of the Interior of 12 November 2014 and the resolution of the Government of the Czech Republic of 22 December 2014, the resolution is under number 1102, also the position of the Deputy Minister of the Interior, or so-called. Superofficial of 14. 7th year 2015 directly to the situation at the Czech Environmental Inspection was meant to state only and only according to the Civil Service Act. In your reply, Minister, you have said in various places: the Ministry of Environment has had legal analyses carried out internally and externally, according to which it is clear that the procedure for the appointment of the Director of the Czech Environmental Inspection was correct and the only possible. And the legal opinion expressed by the Ministry of Interior in the letter of the Minister of Interior dated 12 November 2014 could not be known to you. The interpretation of the Service Act was discussed in the Government of the Czech Republic on 22 December 2014. The Director of the Czech Environment Inspection was appointed as of 1 December 2014. You answered that in your written reply, but I can't put the arguments together to make it all in line with the law of the Service Act. I also note that the legal analyses carried out about three quarters of a year after the appointment of the director of the Czech Environmental Inspection, i.e. on 1 December 2014, must act as an additional defence of the client's procedure for such legal analysis. But it's already reducing the seriousness of the law. So it was three quarters of a year after that. Since the Ministry of the Environment had before 1. 12. 2014 quite indisputably available interpretation of the Ministry of Interior, which implies the need for a procedure under the Civil Service Act and not under the Labour Code, and if the Ministry of the Environment held a different legal opinion, this legal analysis should have taken place on the whole issue before the appointment of the Director of the Czech Environmental Inspection. Then I'd say a second point that ties to your answer. Personal changes made to the Czech Environmental Inspection, Mr. Director Erik Geuss, not long before the full effectiveness of the Civil Service Act, which was, as we all well remember, to 1. 7th last year 2015. [[9.10 hours]] I do not consider it meaningful to comment in more detail on the passages of your reply to the question of the extent, relevance and legality of the personnel changes to the Czech Environmental Inspection, carried out by Mr Erik Geuss. These passages appear to be based on the background of the current director, Mr Erik Geuss, and their correctness is illustrated by e.g. inclusion of the appeal of five out of ten directors of Regional Inspectorates of the Czech Environmental Inspection. Here I will just say for imagination, it was on the territory of the Czech Republic in various regions including Prague and into the total number of all managers, employees of the Czech Environmental Inspection. I myself have experience with the work of the directors of the Czech Environmental Inspection and I will say that these are people apolitical, who are really raised from the bottom in the field of environmental decision-making, and I believe that they have never resorted to a decision in the interests of any political - at least as I have personal experience, they have fully respected the laws and decisions. I merely stress repeatedly that if the Deputy Minister of the Interior for Civil Service had given doktor Postranecký for the truth recalled by executives from the Czech Environmental Inspection in that Mr Erik Geuss was appointed to his duties as director of the inspection in violation of the service law - this I take for very serious and justified, this has really become an acknowledgment of 14. 7. 2015 - it is logical that this will be the main legal argument of their civil or administrative actions for annulment of appeals and dismissals. As it happens, I had the opportunity to debate with my Slovak colleagues, where the service law had been passed much earlier, and they told me that there, when such errors occurred, that the courts really... and whether civil or administrative actions, that they were mostly given the truth to those who brought the lawsuit. So that's a pretty important other argument. And we once have a truly approved service law, which, as I have already mentioned, has taken full effect. 7. 2015, and its fulfilment is to be respected. I think that's the most important thing. We should set an example for citizens who are still falling new equipment, new laws, and unfortunately we can lead them to something similar. This is so important to me and I confess, important, and that is why, in particular, I interpel the Minister of the Environment. Thus, shortly to the development of events, because when I wrote my written interpelation, there was a tender procedure under the Service Act for the new director of the Czech Environmental Inspection, and as it was also published on the website or on the website of the Ministry of Environment, so I followed it carefully after I received a written reply. Thus the result of the selection procedure was very curiously announced on the basis of your information and it was also in the media, because the Corruption and Financial Crime Detection Unit examines the circumstances of the first appointment, i.e. in 2014, already Mr. Erik Geuss, to the post of 1. 12., it was also given by the press release on the website of the Ministry of Environment on 17. 1. that he will be appointed to 18. 1. And in this press release, Minister, you said that with effect from 18. 1. 2016, which is less than a month ago, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Environment appointed Mr. Erik Geuss as Director again, and it is easy to verify that at that time the second applicant, whom the selection committee called equally successful, has not yet been notified of the outcome of the selection procedure. In doing so, the rules are, when the committee selects, it recommends one, two, three, depending on the number of participants, and it has not really been notified by any administrative procedure until then. But the more serious fact is that former senior employees of the Czech Environmental Inspection also turned to the Deputy Minister for Civil Service with two submissions, as they informed me, it was 15. 1. and 25. 1. this year, in which they call the selection procedure and its outcome, i.e. the re-appointed Mr Erik Geuss, illegal. These submissions have been made known to the Secretary of State of your Ministry of the Environment and to you, too, Minister. Well, at the end of the day, I could really... I have a number of arguments, but not everyone cares as much as I see, but I'm sure it's the Minister's concern. So I am coming to the end of my speech, Minister, and I would like to conclude my reply by stressing: Uncertainty about the legal status of Director Erik Geuss and the legal status of the subordinate executives, as well as those appointed, may last for years, which is not at all but good news at all, given the length of the trial. It can really cost up to millions, I don't want to say how many, if in tens, but really a lot of Czech crowns. Dear Minister, I hope that you will have the above-mentioned facts examined without delay, in fact consistently and, above all, impartially. I am still convinced that it is not in accordance with the principles of the rule of law, respect for the Civil Service Act and for long-term civil servants who are defending themselves or defending themselves. In doing so, relying on the slow functioning of independent courts, because there are really many cases, and thus delaying the moment when it is worth paying compensation for its mistakes is not really reasonable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u3	I thank the Member and the Minister of the Environment has the floor, which has the scope for a reaction. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u4	Thank you, good morning, Mr President, dear colleagues. Madam, thank you for your interpellation. I'm sorry the explanation we wrote wasn't enough, but things have shifted in the meantime, and I'm still gonna take the opportunity to keep them informed. First of all, I want to say that Czech environmental inspection works. It works and works well, there's no problem. I now have new figures, preliminary new figures for the past period in terms of number of checks, etc., so I can say that there really is not what has also appeared that the Czech environmental inspection is going to some kind of disruption. I think you have experience with some of the authorities that I've newly occupied, and it's for example. The State Environmental Fund, that these authorities work very well, and I am convinced that this will also be the case of the Czech Environmental Inspection. Mr. Erik Geuss is an experienced manager who has worked in several state institutions, e.g. Earlier also at the Ministry of Environment, he also worked at the Ministry of Industry and Trade and I think also in the Czech Statistical Office in managerial functions. I want to stress one thing in the beginning, because she is important. I didn't have to choose Mr. Geuss at all because I chose him under the Czech Environmental Inspection Act - I will be back in a moment to the legal contexts that are crucial there - and the law doesn't prescribe me to make a tender. I could have chosen him so-called. out of hand. I issued a tender in September 2014, 27 candidates entered the tender and Mr. Erik Geuss was the winner. Just to illustrate, when we wrote a tender under the Service Act, in 2015, only four candidates applied for it and again Mr. Erik Geuss was the winner. What better evidence is that he was, say, a legitimate winner? Because the selection procedure - among other things, the chairman of the selection committee has already been appointed by the State Secretary, Mr Postránecký. If someone else had won it, we might have wondered if Mr. Geuss really was the right candidate, but he also won in the repeated tender under the Service Act. [[9.20 hours]] Again, I didn't have to tender. That was confirmed by everyone in 2014, but I did. In the finals, the selection committee chose - the appointment took place on 10 November, 10 November 2014, so it is also in the file service. The letter you're talking about, from November 12th, which came, I'm so sorry it was a letter that wasn't about the appointment at all, but something else entirely, all the lawyers have judged it. What was involved in the appointments and recommendations of the Government resolution is from December 22. I stress that I decided on the appointment of Mr Geuss on 10 November 2014 and he was appointed to office on 1 December, with effect from 1 December, and only on 22 December the Government gave its resolution some guidance on how to fill those posts. And now I'm stressing the key moment that - and I don't want to have any legal disputations, because I don't think this is a plenary. Of course, we put all the arguments in place. And I must say that the legal capacity of both the administrative law and the service law was clear in saying that I could not appoint under the service law in November 2014. Not only couldn't, I wasn't even allowed to name under the Service Act because he was valid and effective from 1. 1. 2015. And those sections of the Service Act referred to by Dr. Jelínková, who certainly also wrote your interpelation, because it actually sends to all different places, so those sections of the Service Act, which were valid from 6 November 2014, did not apply to appointments. Because if that were the case, the Environmental Inspection Act would also be amended under the Service Act. And the environmental inspection bill clearly said by 31. 12. 2014 appoints the Director of the Czech Environment Inspection Minister. And the Environmental Inspection Act has a special law position. That was agreed by all of our lawyers, including those legal capacities. In other words, I couldn't name Mr. Geuss on November 10th under the Service Act. I could name him that way after 1:00. 1. 2015, because, if the legislator simply wanted this, he also amended the Czech Environmental Inspection Act, and it was amended as far as 1. 1. 2015 in connection with the Service Act. But until 31. 12. 2014 was a valid law on Czech Environmental Inspection and was not amended, it was amended as indirectly in connection with the Service Act only from 1. 1. he gave clear authority to appoint the director of the inspection to the Minister of the Environment, even without a selection procedure. And I did the tender. So it's just to the consistency of the steps, all of these sections of course, all of this, of course, has an explanation. It's the appointment of the director of the inspection as standard as the rest of the stuff is being prepared by my personnel department. Coincidentally, the director of my personnel department and the former Secretary of State were also co-authors of the Service Act. And he didn't, when he prepared the documentation for my appointment, so he had absolutely no doubt that we were going to appoint under the Czech Environmental Inspection Act. So, therefore, there was no debate at all simply about it, because those sections which concerned which were valid, the Service Act from 6 November, so clearly in his opinion and the lawyers' opinion, did not concern the appointment of the Director of Inspection. I would like to say one more thing, my colleague. You know, in your letter, there was talk of a personnel earthquake in your interview. "Personal earthquake" took place so that Mr Geuss changed seven executives from 91 executives in the Czech Environmental Inspection and from the seven employees replaced or changed positions four more were occupied from the Czech Environmental Inspection, her long-time employees who applied for the tender. Basically, all the inspection staff who applied to the selection procedure for managers succeeded again. So tell me what it's like to have a personnel earthquake, and show me one person there who would be connected to ANO, when I've heard some of those ideas that yes. I don't want to be - I don't have it checked out right now, but I'd love to take a look at it. When Director Slanec came in, under the ODS ministers, if I'm not mistaken, we can see how many people he switched in the Czech Environmental Inspection. And I'm almost sure there were more. I don't do earthquakes when I'm not sure it's really necessary. Moreover, I am not interfering, and I want to stress this, I am not interfering with my people's personnel policies. Never. Because that's their responsibility and their competence. Director Geuss had that responsibility and competence, and he has it. And I think that action like Blue means action to control collections, purchases of raw materials, metal purchases and others that just are, and other actions and a significantly larger number of controls clearly speak of a person who is in his place and who so-called doesn't talk, that means simply, he's a person who works fall for who. And I wanted a man to fall for. That's why I wanted an outsider for the inspection. And I repeat, I could have picked him right away, I could have picked him out of hand, and yet I chose him out of 27 candidates with a selection committee. And what you just said, you know, he's looking for someone there - every time we do something there, it's either too late, or it's just too soon again, and he's always looking for some kind of conflict with the law. By the way, there's also talk in your interview that the employees have given you an incentive to control the State Labour Inspection Office. Yes, there was an inspection by the State Labour Inspection Authority and there was absolutely no error. And if she found fault, some change, it was an error involving the activities of the previous director and the previous management before Mr. Geuss. So I'm convinced... And so did our lawyers, and I, of course, did the employment documents and labour disputes... And I don't want to talk right now and I won't even talk about it because, of course, the Secretary of State is responsible for personnel issues. And now, of course, those things, the suggestions that you're talking about, and the employees in the direction of inspection and in the direction of the Ministry of the Environment, under the Service Act, are addressed by the State Secretary or the Director of the Inspection, and I don't feel in that position at the moment, of course, to comment on them, because they are matters of employment relations. And yes, we are in a democratic state, and those workers, like in hundreds of other cases at other offices, have the right to demand that if they think their rights have been violated, claim it in civil courts or in the Supreme Administrative Court. All I'm saying is that all those lawyers who have been addressed are clearly saying - and you don't have all the information, my colleague, because not all the information has also been given to you, and how some things have been evaluated from the point of view of the Ministry of the Interior. And I wonder what the Ministry of Interior will do with the last submission you mentioned on January 15th, for example, about how we should not have consulted with the Secretary of State together, and this interpretation was clearly confirmed by his letter that we acted correctly, as well as by the Secretary of State Postránecký. So what you said, and what you said in your interpellation, is, don't be mad at me, one-sided, or in some cases one-sided information. But I take it someone deliberately gave it to you unilaterally. Of course, I'm not questioning the possibility of you asking them, I'm glad for that, because there were also some media-related total nonsense about how and why I wanted to put my own man there. That's really nonsense, because I'd have to be a total lunatic if I did that. Everyone knows what sector I came from, everyone knows, everyone's watching it, including NGOs, it's public information. And I would have to be completely crazy, and believe me, I'm not crazy, and perhaps some of my steps have convinced you, I hope, from the past period, that if I had behaved like this. So I firmly believe that just those people who recommended, or who prepared the documentation for the appointment, and it is always, say, the decision of the Ministry officials in this, but confirmed by the legal opinions, so they said that I, as a minister, could not proceed at that time otherwise, that there were no other interpretations, and it is best to document the opinion of the people addressed by the lawyers, who simply clearly say and confirm that indeed in November, even if beautifully in the letter you quoted, from November 12, it was something like that, so it was a sort of guide. But he doesn't take precedence over the law. [[9.30 hours]] And the Ministry of the Interior itself spoke of this as some kind of guidance. And on December 22, the Government's resolution actually spoke of something like that, but neither does the Government's resolution take precedence over the law. But that wasn't until December 22. And again, Mr Geuss was appointed by me on November 10th with effect from 1 December. And until 31. 12. 2014 was a valid and effective law on Czech Environmental Inspection, which was not amended. It was amended as far as 1. 1. 2015. And he clearly states that the director of the inspection will be appointed by the Minister of the Environment. Finally, I would like to say, Madame, that I totally share the concern, of course, and believe me, it does not make me happy that this problem has simply arisen. That there wasn't, let's say, an agreement with some of the employees. But those employees were offered jobs. Of course, I talked to Mr. Geuss about it afterwards, and I just want to say - it's not a personnel earthquake. The vast majority of the people who were in those positions are working. Czech environmental inspection works. Yes, I'm really responsible for her functioning. As director, I'm responsible for the director, so I'm certainly not giving up my responsibility for the operation of the inspection. [[Minister]] In the final, let the Supreme Administrative Court deal with matters relating to a possible difference in the legal opinion of several entities. That's where I think it belongs. We ourselves are very curious about this possible decision. As far as I know, there is an employee in the labour dispute with the Czech Environmental Inspection and there are some suggestions for the State Secretary of Postránecký. You're being handled by my Secretary of State. He's dealing with them on his own line. I'm just not informed about them, I just know they exist. I am clearly interested in the functioning of the Czech Environment Inspection. Czech inspection does not work according to any party key. If that's the case in the past, it's not the case anymore. And I have x evidence for that. It just works seriously, works professionally. And I think the numbers, respectively. The number speaks. And let's talk about specific suggestions for inspection. Let's talk about how it worked before. Let's talk about how it works now. I think it'll be decided by some numbers from the operation of the environmental inspection. And let's talk about these specific things. Here I have to say, these are simply problems that have been raised by former employees. Yes, there's a double interpretation, but I think it's more of a Supreme Administrative Court thing. It's definitely a matter for former employees to have the right to defend themselves. They're defending themselves today. There are hundreds of cases like this where someone is not satisfied with the way it worked in employment relations. We have an opinion about it, we defend it. But there's no way it's destroying the ability of the inspection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr Kučera has the floor now, then Mr Vácha. And then Mr. Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me briefly to respond to a very long speech by Minister Brabec, in which he assured us that cleanliness in the Czech environmental inspection is not a purge. I listened very carefully to that speech. I was intrigued by the passage on how many people from the YES movement are or are not there. She speaks in the same words as the Minister of the Environment today, so does the spokesperson of the Czech Environment Inspection, who previously spokesperson of the ANO movement. I do not want to directly touch the choice and professional competence of the current director of the Czech Environmental Inspection, which Minister Brabec claims to be an experienced manager, because, of course, at the Ministry of Industry, where he worked as Deputy, they have a completely different impression. Where he evaluates his actions very negatively. As in the Czech Geological Institute, where he worked after 2000. But I think that's a different story, it's a responsibility, as the Minister said here. It's his responsibility that he chose such a man as to bet on him and claim to be competent both managerially and professionally. The previous one doesn't testify, but, as I say, it's the authority of Minister Brabec, I don't want to question her. Maybe I'd just get back to the purge that wasn't clean. I mean, of course, a whole range of professional workers have left. We know that replacing an expert in the position of head of the department is not very easy. Whoever has ever worked in government, self-government, or even in a manufacturing company knows that in professional positions, those people are actually raised there for years, and the departure of such one professional means a relatively serious problem for the institution. What is interesting is that, of course, the Regional Inspectorate Executives of the Czech Environmental Inspectorate left, and I would like to drop by a little bit here. Leading workers from different regions left. The manager, respectively, left as well. a worker from the Ústí Region. Czech environmental inspection in the Ústí Region did not go to the hand of godparents. She actually stepped on cases such as the Trmice distillery, treading on cases such as photovoltaic power plants in Moldova. She also stepped on the chemical industry. Of course, I do not want to associate this with the former activities of Minister Brabec as director of Lovochemie. The fact that the Czech environmental inspection was treading on them. And I don't want to see that it's some kind of retaliation, or even an effort to meet the current Lovochemist so she can work better. And the exceptions that the chemical industry is receiving, we can, of course, find them, we can track them down. But the fact that I'm not doing it, that I'm not looking for the connection, obviously our colleagues, journalists, citizens can see the connection, and it will be very difficult to refute. Of course, this is not just a question of chemical industry in the Ústí Region. Why is the head of the inspection leaving, which is very uncompromising against the godfathers in the Ústí Region? Why is Minister Brabec calling it off? Those are really questions we won't be able to answer here. And of course, Minister Brabec will come forward and say that's not true. But these are the facts. So all we have to do is watch the Czech environmental inspection progress further. How it's going to work. And maybe sometime in a year or six months, there could be another interpellation on this subject, even with specific numbers. Unfortunately, I must say that Minister Brabec did not convince him of his activities in the Czech Environmental Inspection. I was not convinced, not convinced by the professional public, not convinced by other NGOs. All he has left is to get off at this counter and say, of course, that it's not true and that it's all gonna be different. I want to believe that Czech environmental inspection will work better than its beginning during the time of Minister Brabec's work. And I believe that specifically those cases that have been investigated in the Ústí Region will not fall asleep. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u7	Thank you. Mr Vácha, please, and Mr Bendl will be prepared after.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will not respond to the environmental inspection in my factual note, but it will not allow me to react to a certain self-esteem of the Minister's work at the Ministry of the Environment, which he has shown us here. I understand, of course, that he would probably be crazy to have someone put someone in charge of the inspection of his surroundings, but I do have some complaints about his work at the Ministry, and one of the main complaints is how he acted in negotiations to break the limits. I think the Minister of the Environment could repeat to us here before the House, as he voted on the government to break the mining limits.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u9	Mr Bendl, please, and the Minister will be given the floor after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, colleagues, when I listen to this here, I think the Minister of the Environment cannot be surprised that he will be under more pressure to monitor what is going on in the environment when he himself worked in the chemical industry in the Agrofert Group. At the moment, as I listened to it here, the head of the environmental inspection appointed two months or half a month before the service law was effective, i.e. in a situation where both ministerial servants and the minister had to know that the law would apply, because here in the Chamber of Deputies we discussed it, the Senate discussed it, the President signed it, so it was already in a situation where it was clear that the Service Act would apply on 1 January. That's the first thing you have to pause over because you're thinking, why were you in such a hurry? That couldn't have waited two months or half a month and it couldn't have been declared under the Service Act? Like you said here, you were still acting in the regime of the old law. Sounds like it was kind of rushing to make sure the service bill didn't end up on it. That's one thing. Second thing. According to my information, Mr Geuss was the head of the Czech Environmental Inspection, if I say so correctly, appointed several times during the year and a half. As of 16 January 2016, he was allegedly reappointed, so I say that he was appointed several times. First it was two months before the validity of the Service Act, then the year passed, the whole year 2015, and in January this year it was appointed again. These, in turn, are things that do not contribute too much to the feeling of absolute transparency and that nothing has happened there. That's the second thing I think needs to be explained. Third. I've known Deputy Postránecký for years, and I doubt he'd just say that there was a mistake in 2014 because his statement is pregnant and clear. He says that, in his opinion, it was to be followed by the service law, and it was not. That is what is likely to complicate life not only for you, Minister, but perhaps even if you do not win the dispute, it will be a big problem with what has happened since the possible or possible invalidity of the appointment of a new head of environmental inspection. I think maybe then it was enough to wait those two months. I don't know if the then appointed head of the Czech Environmental Inspection satisfied all the conditions for him to be accepted into a tender in accordance with the Service Act, or chosen by the boss, if he had fulfilled all he needed to apply for such a post in accordance with the Service Act at that time. And that is what I would like to ask - if simply the head of the Czech Environmental Inspection in 2014 would meet the conditions for him to apply for such a post.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u11	The Minister has the floor, followed by a Member of the Klán.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u12	Thank you for the floor. I, if you don't mind, will start from the back. I'll start from my colleague Bendl. Dear Petr, by your means, Mr President, if I wanted to speed things up, I had already named Geuss from his hand in September or August, because it was clear at that time that it was likely that a service law should be passed at some point in the future. So if I wanted to complicate my life like this and accept the logic that you have - if you let us name each other, we've known each other for 25 years - I did it immediately. Because I'm legally clear, and everyone says that, at that point, he had the authority, and we believe that I had it until 31. 12. 2014. So if I wanted to complicate my life like this, I certainly wouldn't have waited two months for a tender. And I was really interested in picking out 27 of the best. The ad went out in Hospodářské noviny, it went out to Jobs, we just did it. Why in God's name would I choose someone this complicated, and it took two months for a several rounds of competition, if I wanted to fuck it up in front of the service law? I'd be completely wrong about that. I would choose this person immediately, because I would just act this way. Why he was repeatedly appointed in quotation marks. That wasn't repeated. He was already in force under the Service Act since 1. 1. 2015 of course recompetitive in 2015, like all other heads of my departmental organizations, who were appointed in 2014, e.g. The State Environmental Fund, and they are again holding a tender under the Service Act. And Mr. Geuss and I seem to have even started to make it very clear. And again, ladies and gentlemen, he won the tender, no one is questioning the tender, but, repeat, he was only chosen from four candidates. I'm just comparing the representativeness of the selection. When I selected it under the Czech Environmental Inspection Act, I made a tender, 27 candidates, under the Service Act, a larger screen, only four. But once again, he won the contest. Did he meet the criteria? Well, there was a selection committee, the chairman of the selection committee was appointed State Secretary Postráneckýý and also the criteria of the individual candidates in the selection procedure under the Service Act were, of course, checked several times by the Selection Committee and was, in essence, confirmed by the State Secretary Postránecký. That's all there is to it. Yes, you are right - and so is Mr Kučer. Of course I'm counting on being more in control, logically because everyone knows where I came from. That's why I can assure you, repeatedly, and that's what matters most that it will just work there, just like it does now, the principle of fall to whom, and so it will be in Ústí in all those cases. I think there are other things that will appear under Mr. Geuss, virtually. under his leadership, we'll just go after some other things in the inspection, and I'll be happy to present them here. I'd love to be asked about them, of course. So after all the cases, after all the things, and that there are in this state in the field of the environment, in the field of landfilling, etc., and I'm very curious about it and I'm looking forward to it and I chose this person just to go into these things. And I'm sure he will. [[9.50 hours]] For Mr Kučera. In cooperation with Mr Geuss, we have strengthened the Czech Environmental Inspection since this year, if I'm not mistaken, about 26 people who will be in the field, so her work will not only be dampened, she will be very, very intensified, and I warn everyone that in all areas including industry. And let's check it out. I assure you, that will be the case. You're right. What else can I do? What else can I say? But I'll do it, too, colleague. And I've done all the things I've said, and I'll do this one. As regards the breach of Mr Vácha's limits, not its limits, but the territorial ecological limits, it is not a secret, and I have repeatedly said so: yes, I voted on the Government on 19 October 2015 as one of the ministers for breaking the mining limits at the Bílin mine. I could very calmly and hypocritically abstain or vote against and I would probably be as famous as somewhere, but that's not my style. I'm not doing any political dances here. I was simply convinced that at that time, in the case of territorial ecological limits, we had just bought time at the Bílina mine. We bought ten years of time. And I wonder what my colleagues would say when coal beyond the limits would really be needed for heat plants or for small consumers and we didn't have time. Yes, it's a tough decision for the Minister of the Environment. Definitely is. And I also said I'd like to see coal go beyond limits even in White, and maybe that's how it's gonna happen. But we bought time for processes where ten years lasted from the decision to start mining. And beyond the limits, Bílina will not benefit until 2035, so there's plenty of time until then. And I will be most pleased and truly satisfied when it turns out that the Czech Republic will not need coal. But if she needed it as a strategic resource, I'd be wondering what the people who are criticizing it would say today. They'd say it was a decision. Guys, we have a responsibility for these things, too. And I'm wearing it. And I'm not ashamed of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u13	I will ask Mrs Fischerová and Mr Bendl whether these are factual remarks or proper applications. Twice properly. Mr Kučera wants factual, so I will ask Mr Klán to wait.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u14	Thank you for the floor. Only very really from behind to mining limits. We heard the word of the Environment Minister Brabec. If the Minister of Industry had spoken like that, I'd have signed it for him. I'm sorry, and I express my great regret that the Minister of the Environment is speaking like that. The promises we have heard here from Minister Brabec. You know, Minister, we heard them two years ago when you took up office and circled the whole republic and promised everything to everyone. Today people are starting to ask: Mr. Minister, you promised us two years ago that it would be that or that. And it's not that or it isn't. Promises are beginning to catch up with you, and promises aren't going to last forever, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u15	Mr Klán, then Mrs Fischerová, then Mr Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u16	Thank you for the floor. Good day, Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, colleagues. Let me also say a little bit here about this interpellation that impressed me from the point of view that there is a certain discrepancy with the service law. I will focus on this part of the problems, I will not focus on breaking any limits or environmental inspection itself. But, as my colleague Bendl said here, it was suspicious that the head of the environmental inspection was appointed by the Minister, even though the law allowed him to do so at that time, there was no breach, because still some of the provisions of the Service Act became effective in November and December, but completely from 1. 1, so he didn't break anything, but it aroused negative tendencies. And it still wakes them up today that he has taken advantage of his option given to him by the Environmental Inspection Act, not the Service Act from 1. 1. 2015, i.e. from 1. 7. 2015 when the entire state service was tilted. I'm just amazed at how many more such examples we'll see. State environmental inspection is one of them, then here we have CzechInvest, we have an ERU problem here, we have other problems where there are differences with the service law, so we need to deal with this whole thing. Of course take to 1. 1. 2015 inspection solved, but there are many other things here. I want to ask who's right. Is this a legal analysis of the Ministry of the Interior and Deputy Civil Service of Mr. Postránecký? Or a legal analysis of the Ministry of the Environment? In my opinion, Mr Postráneckýý is to be right as a super official, i.e. Deputy Minister of Civil Service. We'll have him on February 18th at the Public Administration and Regional Development Committee, and I'll ask him about these discrepancies. And it's not just that, it's a lot of other stuff. I just hope that the Ministry of the Environment will not need to do two environmental inspections, just as the Minister of Industry and Trade from CzechInvest is trying to do two, one that would be under the service law, and the other that would not be. To avoid any collision by having to put our friends there, as I say, into one and would not be under the service law, and into another, so that he would normally be chosen under the service law on the basis of a selection procedure. I hope this is not planned, as the MIT plans. This could happen in the future with other ministries. That's one of the few examples. If we put different exceptions in the Civil Service Act, such as that there are exceptions to which the law does not apply, then, of course, they should be mentioned there. They're supposed to be put out there explicitly, because if they're not listed, we're still going to be in this vicious circle. To conclude, of course, I do not deny that the head of environmental inspection is in the right place. He was so chosen even then overcompetitored, I do not deny it. But I hope we don't run into any other skeletons in the closet. Let's think about that, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u17	Thank you. Please, Mrs Fischerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u18	Mr President, thank you again for the floor. I will respond to the words of Minister Brabec, if he listens to me. That's what I'm asking. I know it's a matter of course with a colleague. I listened to you tensely, and I wouldn't understand everything the way you said it, or wouldn't agree with it. I'll tell you what. One particular thing fell, and that was right at the beginning of your answer when you said you certainly didn't have any people there who would be connected to Agrofert. And I looked it up, Minister, as early as July 2014, when there was oral intervention on the Prime Minister. I'll quote here. This was before the service law was to come into effect. For this reason, some of us have been informed about the preparation for the Service Law. It was answered: The immediate previous relationship with Agrofert, the Prime Minister has now appointed various ministries, and he also said that Mr Smrž is responsible for the temporary representation of the head of the cabinet of the Minister at the Ministry of Environment. And he's also your deputy, and I checked the website yesterday. So I dare not believe your answer. Then, as you quoted about the tender, whether it was in 2014. There was still your reply to the tender, which took place at the end of last year and the appointment to 18. 1. The commission was appointed, there were four nominees, four applicants for this position as director, but, as I was informed, two were recommended, because it is not that one winner is appointed, but there were two. And according to the administrative procedure, which is part of the whole process under the Service Act, so not even the one who was nominated to meet all the criteria has by then received no so-called notification in the framework of the administrative procedure, which should really be the right thing to do. [[10.00 hours]] At least I picked something out of it. My colleagues like Petr Bendl, Mr Bendl, who repeated some of the things I wanted to say, especially that there were really comments against the procedure of the Service Act, and then there were legal opinions about it. And it was said that, on the one hand, I would say for the Ministry, but also from the position of the Ministry of the Interior, which is responsible for the law of service, and it is not always a clear view of this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u19	Yes. Mr Bendl, please, then the Minister. Before Mr Bendl gets here, I'll be quick to read the apologies. Mr Vyzula apologizes from 12 o'clock for work reasons, Mr Šarapatka until 11 o'clock for work reasons and Mr Kaňkovský from 9 to 10.30 for family reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Richard, I'm applying to our flights together in the past. We've known each other for over 25 years, we've known each other, and after all, we've been on the same political side for a long time. However, here our relationship is purely professional and we each do our part and we should focus on the things that belong to us. And I have to say, I've been asking about three or four things. I asked why in November 2014 when from 1. 1. 2015 was an effective and valid law. And the answer was, well, I could have done it in August... But I didn't ask whether the Minister could appoint the head of the Czech Environmental Inspection in August or July or September, but why two months before the law was effective. [[with a smile]] That's just doubt. Not to mention that I am a supporter of this, if the Minister has the authority to appoint and is convinced that he is able to handle this position, without a tender, because he is responsible for it, rather than making fools of others who apply for the tender, because the Minister will be decided by now and I want that person and he will write a tender, where twenty enthusiasts will come, who will feel that they are really going to apply for a position, but the Minister will be convinced that it should be one or the other. Then it's better for the minister to do it this way than for others to make fools of the competition. But I am not surprised that there were 27 of them in the first round in quotation marks, or in November 2014, and a year later they were 4, because I am convinced that simply believing in having a chance to succeed is not like that. I'm saying that frankly, how I feel it was probably clear how it was going to turn out. Or maybe that's what these people thought, and that's why they signed up for the tender less. However, I asked why it wasn't worth waiting for. I also said I've known Deputy Deputy Postránecký for years. And if he says it was meant to be under the Service Act, I don't think he's completely made it up, that he's just gonna have some kind of basis to confirm his position or to which he's definitely gonna cover himself, maybe there's gonna be some kind of discussion about it, and that there might be some inconvenience in terms of authority to decide with the head of the Czech Environmental Inspection if it turns out that it wasn't in accordance with the law. That's an inconvenience we're not gonna be able to judge. It's probably gonna end up in court, and it's gonna decide if everything was okay or not. Then I asked about it, and it was not answered to me either, if Mr - now I do not know what his titles - Geuss met the conditions he needed in November 2014 so that he could participate in the tender and succeed - the terms of the service law. Because that's the key. If it did not happen when he was appointed in an old system where he may not have fulfilled these conditions, and it did not allow him to be appointed to participate in the selection procedure at a time when the service law was already valid and effective. Please, if you can answer that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u21	Thank you and please the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u22	I'll start with the lady's permission. Response to Mrs Fischerová. Madame, by your means, Mr President, perhaps you have not listened well to me or I have squashed it, perhaps there is a problem with me. When you mentioned Mr. Smrž, I wasn't talking about the Ministry of Environment, and I wasn't talking about Agrofert anymore. I was talking about YES and towards inspection. And Mr. Smrž, if I'm not mistaken, he's not even a member of the YES. Yes, he was with me in Lovochem, he was my HR director. And I also choose the people I know and have a good experience with. And once again I say, value me and my people more by the work and not by who's connected to whom. I myself say that I'd always rather tell someone I know, who I know doesn't steal, works, is capable of some kind of struggle, is able to work 14 or 15 hours a day, like these people are. So let's see. That means I wasn't talking about the Ministry of the Environment. I was talking about the Czech Environmental Inspection. And you certainly won't find too many people in the ministry besides some of the really narrowest groups that are somehow connected to YES. I don't even have political deputies. And I think I even had one deputy who was connected to the YES movement, and that's why I think he stepped out of the YES movement so there wouldn't be any conflict. So it's definitely not a party key occupation. That matters a lot to me. And when one of these people is there, it's not because he's from YES, it's because he knows something and because I knew him from the past. Mr Bendl. About why in November. Well, because I had an open tender from September, and I wanted to end it logically in some way, because it had just been chosen at the beginning of November. And I knew anyway, because it was clear that this person would be competing again in 2015 and I already wanted that new person there for the inspection. Logically. And then I was sorry I didn't name him straight to August. But Petr, by your means, Mr President, believe it or not, I am Mr Geuss before he applied for the selection procedure and before I spoke to him after the recommendation of the selection committee, I did not know him, and I probably never spoke to him in my life. Someone was talking about us meeting at the MIT somewhere. In theory, yes. But I dare say I never knew him personally, anyway, who he was. I didn't find out until he signed up for the tender. In other words, I may have chosen the director of the State Environmental Fund out of hand because I had a good candidate and I saw it was him. I've been running this inspection tender just to try and find out how many people will sign up and how good they will be on the market. And I also reject the fact that under the Service Act, those people couldn't have signed up for it just because they knew how it would turn out. That's nonsense. And I'll tell you what kind of proof I have for that. Because now it's showing up - and I don't want to speak for my colleagues, but it's obvious in my country - it turns out that by competing many posts under the Service Act, participation in those tenders, at least as far as I know, isn't big. Because by far not everyone meets the relatively strict conditions of the service law, especially the necessary practice. [[10.10 hours]] And the final question. I don't know. Or I think Mr. Geuss did it before, but I'll tell you straight away, I don't know at this point. I didn't deal with it, it was handled by the selection committee. I didn't deal with it because we chose this person under the Environmental Inspection Act, where it was only a condition for me to have the experience of managing, to have experience in the field, and that's just what he had. So, of course, we didn't figure out some things that would if, because I just knew at that point, even my officials, both personalists and lawyers, were convinced that the person was chosen by the law. And life is short, Petr through the President. In fact, Mr President, can it be used by you as well?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u23	I didn't want to enter into your friendly conversation, but in truth, if we were all here to show who we're dealing with in the House, that level of debate wouldn't have gone up, rather down. I'd like us to maintain some standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u24	I'm sorry. I got carried away. I'm sorry. So, Mr President, by your means, believe that really or don't believe it, but that the only main reason was that I wanted the new concept I wanted to start working as soon as possible from the inspection, that is ideally from November. That's why. But I knew that we would re-check the quality of a person by service law because we knew that he would be competing, but he could be competing sometime until 2015, or even until mid-2016. And for me every month, when it should be working according to a new concept, I wanted to speed it up. That was the only reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u25	Thank you. And if they're not... Mrs Fischerová, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u26	Thank you. I just want to say, Minister, I'm not entirely pleased with you. Well, I'm not gonna be happy either, which means I'm gonna want to vote that I don't agree with this answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u27	Yes, so Mrs Fischerová suggests that the Chamber of Deputies should express its opposition to the Minister Brabec's reply. We'll decide that by voting. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby and we'll vote. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees with the motion for a resolution, which means... [[Several Members are coming to the hall. It's a request for a new registration.]] Oh, well, I'm sorry. I declare this vote confusing. I'll check you all out, please, for a new registration. For the new arrivals, I will repeat that there is a proposal to express disagreement with the Minister of the Environment's reply. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees with the motion for a resolution and therefore does not agree with the Minister's reply to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes the motion for a resolution? The vote is number 207, registered is 93, for 35, against 46. This proposal has not been adopted and I am therefore ending the discussion of this interpelation. Mr Michal Kučera's interpellation to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka will be the next intervention. Interpelation along with your reply has been submitted to you as press 684, the hearing has been suspended and Mr Kučera wishes to speak in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u28	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the interpellation was interrupted at 11 o'clock, most of what we wanted to say has already been said, I would just like to sum up some of the points that I have said here and with which Prime Minister Sobotka has come. I have intersected Prime Minister Sobotka on the National Plan for the development of new generation networks, i.e. the introduction of high-speed Internet. The Prime Minister has answered some of the questions that I would like to hear here, or I would like to stress them, so I will take them from his answer. The Prime Minister acknowledged that the Czech Republic is very late from the point of view of the digitalisation of the state administration, while he said that the Czech Republic is one of the last places in terms of the electronicisation of the state administration. At the same time, Prime Minister Sobotka informed us that the National Plan for the Development of New Generation Networks has not yet gone through inter-ministerial commentary proceedings and has not been submitted to the government in such a form that the government can finally approve it, because what it lacks is the current data provided by the Czech Telecommunications Authority. I would just like to make some comments on this, and then I would end my speech at this point. I would just like to say that the Ministry of Industry and Trade submitted the eighth version of this plan in January. As Prime Minister Sobotka did not mention, the plan is not just waiting for data on internet connection coverage to be supplied by the Czech Telecommunications Authority. The data collection should be completed in June 2016. The main reason why the plan is not yet approved is the low quality of the material presented by Minister Mládek, Minister of Industry and Trade. And of course, let us all be aware, and this was also the reason for my intervention on the Prime Minister, not on the Minister of Industry and Trade, that at the time when the Czech Republic does not have the national plan, it cannot receive the promised CZK 14 billion to support Broadband, that is, the high-speed Internet or network construction. I really want to point out that this is such a serious problem that the Prime Minister should actually address, not individual ministries, because that competence is a bit divided between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Industry and Trade. That's why she's having an interview with the Prime Minister. What didn't the Prime Minister do to please me? Although he said that small market providers need not be afraid that they would not reach the subsidy allocation because there was, of course, a concern that only two or three of the largest providers would be able to meet the conditions of award and grant. The Prime Minister said that small providers need not be afraid, but in other sentences he recommended smaller entities to join the consortium and to match the very big ones. So I believe that this was just from the point of view of some recommendation, not the necessary conditions, that only the big providers could reach the subsidies. More or less, although I have some of the comments that have been made here, I will not propose a resolution. I think that this has been explained sufficiently from the prime minister's position, although, of course, I cannot agree with everything. And I would just like to call on the Prime Minister, Mr Sobotka, to actually see to it that the ministries concerned present the national plan and that we reach 14 billion crowns of subsidies, and that small providers, not the big ones, are also able to reach them at present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u29	I thank Mr Kučer. Good morning. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. If no one else reports, I am done with the debate. Mr Kučera does not want, as I understand it, to propose any proposal that we would vote on. Well, thank you, and I'm done with this interpellation. The next interview is an interview with Minister Milan Chovanec. Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec responded to the interview of a member of František Vácha on the matter of exceeding the powers of the Police of the Czech Republic. Interpelations shall be submitted together with the response as 692 printing. I am opening a debate, which is the first to be heard by Mr František Vácha. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. To be honest, I didn't expect the minister to come today. He probably has a lot of other concerns about various affairs that are happening around various power ministers as regards exceeding various powers in terms of security situations, kidnappings, ransoms, doubts about the correctness of the Police of the Czech Republic. He's gone abroad. I don't know where he went. I hope they're putting out the problems of their colleagues from the government, Minister Pelikán, or Minister Stopnický. So maybe I could introduce you to the core of my interpellation, why I disagree, and then I'd ask you if we wouldn't interrupt the hearing. I turned to Minister Chovanec on the question of exceeding the powers of the Police of the Czech Republic, which I believe occurred during the demonstration at Albertov on 17 November 2015, when the Police of the Czech Republic, in my opinion, was used to selectively release or not allow participants to attend this event. The Minister replied to me that after the completion of the security inspection - which, of course, was justified and to which the police are legally entitled - the protected place was already admitted to the assembly area. Of all the records you can download from the Internet or from the witness statements of direct participants, it is clear that this was not the case that the police were used to selectively keep some participants away from this event. So I'll wait for the minister. I will not agree with his response, I will wait for his response when he is here, and I would like to ask you to suspend this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u31	I am registering your procedural proposal, which I will put to the vote. We will therefore vote on the suspension of this proposal in the presence of the Minister. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. Initiating suspension vote... Sorry, there's a request for everyone to check out. I declare this vote confusing, I declare you all. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the interruption of this interpellation to the presence of Minister Chovanec. Initiating suspension vote... [[Objection that there are at least 67 entries in the O.R.]] Sorry, it wasn't reached - it was. [[There are over 67 entries already.]] Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of interrupting the interpelation, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the number 209 vote, 84 Members and Members registered, for 74, against none. The motion was accepted. We've interrupted this interpellation. We're going to proceed with another interpellation, this time it's going to be an interpellation to the Lady of Labor and Social Affairs, Michaela Marksová. The Minister replied to Mrs Jitka Chalánková's interpellation with regard to the distribution of siblings in international adoptions. Interpelation together with response shall be submitted as 693 printing. I am opening the debate and Mrs Jitka Chalánková is the first to report. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let me introduce you in a few sentences to the content of my interpelation, and then I will also ask for a suspension of this point due to the absence of the Minister. Madam Secretary, in my brief and factually formulated interpellation, I asked you to provide it in an anonymous form. 1. an overview of all cases of adoption of Czech children abroad with the indication of the year of birth, the brief life story of the child, two to three sentences, the reason for the provision of international adoption, the state into which the child was adopted, and the type of family adopting, 2. a similar overview of international adoptions into the Czech Republic and 3. In particular, the indication of all cases where and for what reason the division of siblings occurred, all in the years 2013-15. Not to mention the tone of your answer, it seems to me the undignified ministry you're leading. However, I cannot forget that even though your answer will take up four times as much space as it took for me to interpel, it doesn't have an answer to my questions. I insist on providing the required data, especially with regard to the number of siblings divided as a result of international adoptions, as a general rule, to different countries. I only want these statistics in the last two years, i.e. for a period from the effectiveness of the Children's Social-Legal Protection Act. On the edge. I am pleased that suddenly the adoption of a nine - year - old boy in France has been prevented. Someone took into account his opinion that he wanted to stay in a foster home. Unfortunately, his sister, whom he was deeply emotionally bound, no one asked, is now adopted in Spain and will never see those two again in life. Madam Secretary, I have an extensive agenda that deals with this issue, and I will also publish it on my website, and I will be happy to be able to discuss this issue more widely and more widely. I'm preparing an extensive amendment to the Children's Social-Legal Protection Act to address the shortcomings of the latest amendment. However, in the light of this case, I have decided to submit an amendment to the Act on Social Law Protection for Children and the Act on Special Proceedings for the Court of Justice. Since you are writing that the child is being entrusted under the applicable legislation on the basis of a court decision issued by the competent Czech court, I think it would be appropriate for us, as the Chamber of Deputies, to put this idea into reality and reality. That is why I am prepared to present or also bring forward a proposal for a legislative regulation that will bring your vision into line with reality. I therefore request that this item be interrupted until the presence of Secretary Marksová. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u33	I will call our colleagues from the lobby and we will vote on this procedural proposal to interrupt this interpelation into the presence of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of interrupting this interpelation, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 210, 98 Members are registered, for 77, against 2. The proposal has been adopted and I am interrupting this interview with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. [[10.30 hours]] Another intervention is the interpelation of the present Minister of Transport Dan Ťok. The Minister for Transport replied to Mr Ivan Adamec's interpelation in the case of the Ministry of Transport Decree No. 265/2015 Coll., amending the Decree of the Ministry of Transport and Communications No. 167/2002 Coll., which is implemented by Act No. 247/2000 Coll., on the acquisition and improvement of competence to drive motor vehicles and on changes to certain laws. Interpelations shall be submitted together with the response as 696 printing. I'm opening up a debate. Mr Ivan Adamec is not present, so I am interrupting this interview. I am terminating this interpellation for the absence of a Member. Thank you and I note that we have stopped discussing the responses to the written interpelations of Members for today. I am interrupting the House meeting by 11 o'clock, when we will proceed with paragraph 205, the draft rules for the management of Members' clubs for 2016, and other points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, we should now proceed firmly with paragraphs 205, 103 and 9, House document 3624, House prints 487 and 583. Then we should focus on the items from the report block, suggestions and more. At 12.45 we should address paragraph 184, which is the election point - the second round of the elections to the Radio and Television Council. We'll discuss paragraph 202 this afternoon, which is oral questioning. I would like to inform you that Mr Borka has Mr Borka's replacement card number 14. I now have two applications, first registered in writing by Mr Marek Černoch on the approved agenda. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I would like to ask you to include the debate of the House press 450, the amendment to the State Holiday Act. The reason for this is the coming 700th anniversary of the birth of Czech King Karel IV. I would just like to point out and add that the guarantee committee has been redesigned on an important day to the date of Karel IV's birth. So I think there's a general consensus on that, and the discussion would be very quick. It is a House press of 450 and I would like to propose it as the fourth point of today's negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u36	Thank you to Prime Minister Černoch. Now Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 and Mayors František Laudát. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u37	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am asking for the proposal and power to support the inclusion of point 31, House printing 543, the protection of the agricultural soil fund, namely firmly for today as the fifth point after the proposal if Mr Černoch's proposal is approved, or the fourth point in case it is not approved. That is, after the fixed points. It's been here a couple of times. It's a second reading and I assume it won't be a conflict point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u38	I thank President Laudát. Now on the agenda of the meeting, Mr. Koníček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u39	Mr President, I would like to propose the inclusion of item number 7 interrupted, House press 610, this is the SAO law, when we interrupted it in a detailed debate, for today's already firmly placed points. This morning.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u40	I'm asking if your colleagues' proposals were voted, so are they. [[Yes.]] Okay. So right now, as the sixth point of today's meeting. Thank you. Mr. Chairman of the ČSSD Roman Sklenák. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u41	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to propose a change. Specifically, today, after the oral questioning, we should include item 17, which we did not discuss yesterday, school law, second reading. Then I make a second proposal for the House to decide that it will be negotiating today and that it will vote on all proposals today, both internally and in a procedural manner, even after 19 o'clock. I submit this proposal on behalf of the ČSSD and YES 2011 MEP.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u42	This is the procedural proposal that we will vote on first, then on the other items on the agenda. I'll call - sorry, it's a procedural proposal, I'll vote on it, then - I'm sorry. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u43	I would like to ask, Mr Vice-President, that it is customary for you to read the apologies of the members of the government at the beginning, so if, before the vote, you could load the apologies of the members of the government so that we know how many members of the government will be here for oral questioning. That's where the meeting starts. I understand that this may have been read at nine o'clock, but I would like to ask you once again to apologize to the members of the government from the afternoon meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u44	I will read them and then vote on the procedural proposal if the House agrees to this procedure. The following members of the government apologize for today's meeting: Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka for work reasons, Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš for foreign travel reasons, Vice Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek for work reasons, Minister of Interior Milan Chovanec for foreign travel, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová for work reasons, Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek for foreign travel reasons, Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček for work reasons, Minister of Defence Martin Stropnickýý for foreign travel, Minister of Education Kateřina Valachová for work reasons and Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek for foreign travel reasons. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u45	As I counted, ten, ten members of the government. Neither the Prime Minister, nor the Vice Prime Minister, nor the Minister of the Interior, nor the Minister of Defence, nor the Minister of Foreign Affairs. So all the members of the Bureau of the State Security Council, from which information is leaking, aren't going to come to the interview. What if some Members tried to ask them something? But I was intrigued by something else. President Sklenák proposes a discussion of the school law presented by the Minister, he even wants to act after 19 o'clock, and the Minister is excused. How am I supposed to understand that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u46	Mr. Sklenák will be added. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u47	So I'm not Secretary Valachová. I don't know exactly what her apology from today's meeting sounds like, in what period of time, but I have confirmed that she could be here in the House at approximately 16 o'clock, and we could discuss that point. That's the information I have.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u48	Thank you. Therefore, we will vote first on the procedural proposal, so that today we shall act in terms of both territorial and procedural terms and vote after 19 o'clock. I'm shutting you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. Initiating vote on the meeting today after 7:00 p.m. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote 211. 140 Members and Members are registered, for 75, against 51. The motion was accepted. And now for the individual suggestions. First, Mr Černoch, for paragraph 30, the House Press 450, the amendment to the Act on State Holidays, to be ranked as the fourth point of today's negotiations after the fixed points. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 212. 142 Members and Members are registered, for 109, against none. The motion was accepted. In addition, President František Laudát proposes that point 31, House printing 543, the Law on the Agricultural Soil Fund, be ranked as the fifth point of today's negotiations as a point that we have just approved. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 213. 143 Members and Members are registered, for 109, against none. This proposal has also been adopted. Mr Vladimír Koníček proposes that item 7, House press 610, the Supreme Audit Office Act, be placed as the sixth item today. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote 214. 143 Members and Members are registered, for 124, against 13. This proposal has also been adopted. The last suggestion is that today, at 18 o'clock, a point that we didn't discuss yesterday should be firmly placed... [[A Member of the Sklenák claims the floor.]] I'm sure I'll beg you to clarify.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u49	I wasn't just suggesting a solid hour, I defined it as after oral inhalations, because it might take less time than 18, so we wouldn't have to have a break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u50	Thank you for the clarification. So today after the oral questioning, it's the school bill. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 215 vote, 142 Members and Members signed up for 78, against 27. The motion was accepted. That's how we dealt with the meeting program. Now with priority rights, President František Laudát. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u51	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like Members of the Coalition Clubs, Government Coalition Clubs to finally make peace and ask their ministers to play fair with the House. It doesn't seem normal to me that several times because Mr. Pelikán is somewhere, I don't know, relaxing or whatever in India, then somewhere God knows where, in the meantime, he's expressing himself to what, and several times his laws, which came on the show yesterday, have been postponed, and then we're just accused in the media that we're boycotting the House, that there's nothing to discuss. He was even mentioned on one show by Mr. Pelikán, but the reason is completely different - he is usually not here and is adapting to the program because of him. Excuse me, but I was trying to arrange for the school bill to start earlier yesterday, and Mrs. Valachová's wasn't until 6:00 p.m., and today we're exposed to the exact same situation. I would ask you very much to really do this behavior towards the House - I consider it very unfair, 200 people versus one person, or 199, similar numbers so that it doesn't happen again. That's really beyond the brink of decent behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-11-ps2013-039-09-001-201.u52	I thank President Laudát and the first point of today's meeting is
