ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u1	7. Government bill amending Act No. 166/1993 Coll., on the Supreme Audit Office, as amended, and other related laws /German press 610/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, Minister Jiří Dienstbier will state the draft bill. Before I give him my word, I will ask that Mr Štěpán Stupčuk, who is the rapporteur of the Supervisory Committee, and Mr Jan Chvojka, who is the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee, be prepared. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u2	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill tabled follows up with the Chamber of Deputies approved by the Constitution of the Czech Republic, which extends the powers of the Supreme Audit Office. This amendment to the Constitution, although approved by the Chamber of Deputies, has not yet been approved by the Senate, and the Senate is waiting for this law because it has expressed its willingness to discuss both proposals at the same time. The amendment to the Constitution and following it the draft law extends the supervisory powers of the SAO, they are newly defined, they are intended to focus on the management of public funds and on the control of the management of legal entities with the ownership of the State or the local government. In order to comply with the Constitution's approved amendment, the proposed draft law defines, on the one hand, the terms which the draft amendment to the Constitution introduces in connection with the extension of the SAO's supervisory powers to the Constitution, namely the concepts of public funds, public budget funds, and defines a legal person with the ownership of a State or a local authority by setting the limit of such participation to more than 50 per cent. At the same time, it is proposed to determine the content of the control carried out by the local authorities and the legal entities established or established by them, as well as other legal persons who, in addition to public funds, also manage their own financial resources, the compliance of such management with the legislation governing the management of such persons. The bill was discussed in three committees of the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to thank you for this discussion, I think the debate was constructive. The Supervisory Committee recommended that the draft law be approved in essence with technical amendments. The Constitutional Committee has yet to request an analysis of the Parliamentary Institute to assess the constitutional conformity of the proposed proposal, and the Parliamentary Institute has found that there is nothing to undermine this conformity. The sole public administration committee, on the ground of not presenting an overview of the system of controls in public administration, interrupted and did not negotiate. I think that, on the basis of the previous negotiations, I would also like to ask for the release of this law further, and I hope for final approval as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u3	Thank you, Minister Dienstbier. We ordered the proposal at first reading to be discussed by the Supervisory Committee as a guarantee committee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Constitutional Law Committee and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The committee resolution was delivered as House prints 610/1 to 4. I would now ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, Mr Štěpán Stupčuk, to inform us about the committee's discussion and to justify any amendments. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the resolution of the Supervisory Committee of the 25th meeting of 12 November 2015 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 166/1993 Coll., on the Supreme Audit Office, as amended, and other related laws, House print number 610. Audit Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic following the opinion of the Minister for Human Rights, Equal Opportunities and Legislation Jiří Dienstbier, the opinion of the Vice President of the Supreme Audit Office Zdeňka Horníková and the report by Mr Štěpán Stupčuk and after the debate I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a government bill amending Act No. 166/1993 Coll., on the Supreme Audit Office, as amended, and other related laws, House press No. 610, approved as amended by the following amendments: 1. in Part I of Article 1, point 3, the word "the municipality" shall be replaced by the word "the municipality"; 2. in Part I (6) of the first Article, "Participants" shall be replaced by "Participants"; II. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adaptations, III. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; and IV. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. As he has already announced and stated in his introductory words both the minister and the translator, it is therefore purely formal amendments that have emerged from the guarantee committee governing the grammar of the normative text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr Jan Chvojka will present another report on behalf of the Constitutional Legal Committee. Please, rapporteur. A colleague of Jiří Petrů, the rapporteur of the last committee, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good evening, colleagues and colleagues. We dealt with this press twice on the Constitutional Legal Committee, first on 12 November, when we interrupted the discussion of this press, and then finally on 2 December at our 69th meeting. Following the statement of the Minister for Human Rights, Equal Opportunities and Legislation Mgr Jiří Dienstbier, rapporteur of the Chamber of Deputies of Jan Chvojka and after the debate of the Constitutional Legal Committee I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies approve the proposal, II. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament; and III. It empowers the Committee's rapporteur, i.e. me, to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the results of this draft law at the meeting of the Constitutional Committee. Therefore, our committee did not accept any amendments and recommended this press to the House to approve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. Furthermore, I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration, Mr Jiří Petr's regional development, to inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and to justify any amendments. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Public Administration, regional development, by its resolution No. 143 of the 32nd meeting held on 11 November 2015 adopted this resolution, interrupting the discussion of the House of Press 610 until the time of submission of the government material, which will clearly inform Members of the existing system of public administration controls on the drawing of public funds within the meaning of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic number 708 of the 26th meeting held on 9 April 2015. To remind you, the resolution number 708 of the 26th meeting on 9 April 2015 reads: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to prepare material which will clearly inform Members of the current system of controls in the public administration and when drawing public funds, by the end of the first half of 2015. Given that we have not received the material, Dr Halíková, Chair of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, requested delivery of this material to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Hamáček, on 9 September 2015. To date we have not received this material, i.e. the discussion of this print remains 610 status quo.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u9	Thank you to the rapporteur. Before I open the debate, I state the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Minister Marian Jurečka has apologized since 18.30 for departmental reasons. My colleague Šarapatka apologizes at 6 p.m. for work reasons. An apology from Mr Fiedler's 16 to 16.30 was also received. From 16.25 to 18 Mr Augustin Karel Andrl Sylor and from 16 to 21 o'clock Mrs Chalánková and from 17.15 to 21 Mr Daniel Korte. That's an apology. We will continue with the general debate that I am opening. Mr Roman Kubíček will be the first to speak in the general debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken the liberty of introducing an amendment to the Government Bill amending Act No. 166/1993 Coll., on the Supreme Audit Office, as amended, and other related laws, House print number 610. It's pretty simple. In Article 12, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 number 15 is replaced by number 17. In a detailed debate, I will sign up to him and present a explanatory report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u11	I thank Mr Kubíček. Now, Mr Ivan Adamec in the debate. Mr. Petr Bendl will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good evening. Evening. Perhaps I would recall some of the risks related to the adoption of this bill. I understand, we said it here months ago. Even the constitutional part is approved, however - and I must also say that we should not be blamed for this, that in the past part of the programme statements of the then government coalitions was simply extending their powers. I have to tell you, I still see a lot of problems in this, and I need to think about it. And I'm not saying that because there's some fear of further control. I think good control is needed. Good control has positive results. It's changing, it's doing well. The only problem, and I'm going to talk about self-government, is that the duplication, now I'd write the multiplicity of controls is so huge at the moment that I think we should solve this problem in conjunction with transferring competences. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. And every mayor, whether current or former, has to give me the truth that it's just not possible that you have one activity that you've got a few checks on, state controls - by the way, the SAO is no news to us like for mayors, they've always walked and went to the use of state money or state subsidies. That's where we saw it as okay. However, I do not see right that we are now adding the SAO powers which we have, of course, put into the Constitution, probably not much can be done about it, but it should be considered how we do it, because I think it is important how it will be set - not now yes or no. That's just what the Constitution is, and it depends on us how we handle it. I'm a little worried that the SAO, as I know the mentality of these officials, is set up for state control, for simple checks on the efficiency of using state money in accordance with the law. I see it as, of course, the right approach. On the other hand, I have to say that I had several inspections personally at the SAO's office and that I was surprised, I would say, the effectiveness of these checks or checked something, checked it for a number of months, we had to give them space, access to the network, the computer probably had its own, I don't remember. Coffee had its own. So they were there for a long time and the effectiveness of their investigation was very low. It only cost a lot of money for those officials' salaries to find out that the draw was effective. I'm really worried that they don't know the nature of self-government, those officials. When you look at how municipalities and cities work today, municipalities and cities do all the inefficient loss-making things if they don't do business. And I would not like to hear that municipalities and cities are in business somewhere, because that is always a great risk. They do the things that private subjects, the private sphere is not able to do and that don't pay. And now you're gonna get officials, SAO civil servants, settled in your office, and, of course, they're gonna check in accordance with the law on the use of money, but they're not gonna be tempted to judge the birth of the council or council to which they're going to spend it and what they're going to spend it on. Aren't they going to say that kindergarten traffic is expensive, that it might be cheaper, or that the streets could be swept away in other ways? And a whole bunch of things I can think of - funding schools, sports. They can show us all that at this point. [[19.10 hours]] When I looked at the bill, of course, there are some corrections, I would say, options, but on the other hand, there aren't so many, and then the council has to decide right away about the audit report, which I think if someone filed a complaint for the administrative court, because he's not satisfied with it, that's gonna pass. That's gonna miss. It's gonna miss a lot of months, maybe even years. And paradoxically, this can trigger political turbulence in these municipalities and cities. And what if, after two years, it turns out that the management of the city had succeeded correctly and that the SAO's conclusion was flawed? What's gonna happen? There's no one out of the city leadership anymore, they're labeled thieves in public. And all you have to do is spit today and you know how people react. And the fact that it was okay, no one appreciates it anymore. I'm just warning you about this way, the way it's set. I'm not saying control is wrong. On the other hand, I would very much like to point out, here, to eliminate the frequency of controls per activity. Let us seriously consider whether the office should be constantly dedicated to the controllers and do nothing else. There's really nothing special about three or four checks coming in for one and the same action. And the conclusions of the checks? You'd be surprised how much they're the same! They're mostly very different. So I considered it necessary to warn you about these risks at second reading, in line with my beliefs, and a little, I would say. I think, as the law is set, I, as a representative of self-government, among other things, apart from my parliamentary work, will never support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u13	I thank Mr Ivan Adamc. Now, Mr Petr Bendl in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have a law ahead of us, although it bears the title of the Supreme Audit Office, so that it leads to justice of control, but without getting it, and I must say that there has just been a lot of discussion on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, the conclusions of individual controls and the number of controls that are taking place at the level of self-government have been reached, first of all. Secondly, I also remembered the debate on that occasion, and it could be traced when Deputy Prime Minister Babiš, here in the debate on control, said that it was necessary to examine all the triplicities and duplications in the future, and so on when we were talking about the control of the Ministry of Regional Development and those European finance that should be approved on the basis of some material in Brussels and the like. You may remember the debate between the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Finance. We are strengthening here, or this law strengthens the SAO's powers to control autonomous decisions of cities, municipalities and regions. This means assessing the decisions of elected representatives who are somehow fulfilling their electoral agenda to offer citizens how to deal with the funds that the municipality has, through its electoral programme, which may be part of the control, I would almost say an independent supervisory office, as it will seem to fulfil the electoral programme of one or other political party or political entity - independent, etc., etc., candidates - will seem ineffective, uneconomic, as a program that will lead to an inefficient treatment of funds. And the bill says the SAO will judge this, make a protocol, and the person under control will have to take a stand, my duty, the council. We have no longer been able to agree on what an opinion is about the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Because who will force the council to adopt a majority resolution when they are not obliged to adopt it or a resolution, whether this will no longer be a violation of the SAO Act? And that's just a little thing. By the way, the bill also says that if this law is passed, but still for some time - about 2021 - it will not be used in this form, but will be used at the level of the previous law. It says there will be a gradual implementation of the law, as the SAO will be ready for it by 2021, and according to the population, every year a community will fall into it and it will already be controlled by the law, which we will now approve, but the previous ones will be checked in accordance with the content of the law, which we now want to correct and cancel. That's written in the explanatory memorandum, and I think it's very considerate to say across the political spectrum, because it's, I'll say, then politically exploitable material. Because in the Czech Republic, unfortunately, every suspect is already basically charged and every defendant is guilty. And if there is such material that will be evaluated from the perspective of economic self-governing decisions of municipalities, then let's cancel the councils, let's ask the SAO directly how they would do it if we needed to make a sidewalk or a playground. Or if we're gonna make a sidewalk or a playground first. Because we're really moving the SAO's powers. And maybe they'll tell us in advance so we don't accidentally make a mistake as mayors and deputies. I think that's the kind of idea of the functioning of self-government that only someone who has never borne any responsibility at the level of self-government can have. So, on the one hand, it's not surprising that it's Minister Dienstbier. On the other hand, as a committee on public administration and regional development, we were now at an exit meeting in the Zlín region where we talked about these matters, about possible abuse of the view especially on these matters. I find it scandalous that when the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development asks for information that the Minister is unable to deliver it to us or apologize, he does not say anything in his opening words. I think it would be worth it to have this law actually negotiated by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, so that it has a chance to access the data that it wants to have at its disposal. And I point out - across the political spectrum, it wasn't something that opposition representatives danced on. Rather, it was because a number of people in that committee have personal experience with the functioning of public administration at different levels, whether at regional level or at municipal level. I would therefore like, Mr President, to make a motion to interrupt this point, pending the discussion of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Thank you for your attention and please vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u15	I thank Mr Petr Bendl. This is a procedural proposal that we will decide without debate. I'm gonna call a colleague from the lobby, who we've driven out there to make sure there's a need for peace of mind for a meeting. I'll check you all out first and ask for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. [[Members are coming to the ballroom.]] For those arriving, I announce that a procedural proposal has been made for the suspension of the Supreme Audit Office Act pending the conclusion of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, which has not completed its deliberations on the Committee, which the rapporteur has informed us of. Since there is no change in the number of people present, I have begun voting number 21 and I ask who is in favour of interrupting this point. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 21, from 99 Members present for 24, against 64. The motion was denied. [[19.20 hours]] We're good to go. Before I give the floor to Mrs Fischerová, who is reporting, I quote an apology from Mr Petr Adam from 7:30 to 21:00. Now, therefore, a factual point - we are still in the general debate - Mrs Fischerová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u16	Thank you for the floor. I thought after my predecessors, when they spoke so seriously about how the Public Administration Committee acted, and again I look at my colleagues and fellow Members who went through the city, municipalities or regions' self-government that they understood that this was a really serious matter. I've already spoken at first reading, but it won't allow me to speak briefly at this second reading. I will also follow the words of my fellow Member, Mr Jiří Petr, who, as rapporteur here, quoted the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very serious matter. If it is not taken into account that the Public Administration Committee has not yet discussed this - and I will refer not only to the meeting of the Public Administration Committee but also to Resolution No. 78, it was the 26th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, it was 9. 4. 2015 by which we tasked the government, i.e. the Prime Minister and others, to give us an analysis, an analysis of the system of controls in the public administration. What's our date today? On January 19th, and to this day, this was not fulfilled, although it was to be done by June of last year. This is completely incomprehensible to me, I'll say it's scandalous because we have 6249 plus minus and it's serious for all municipalities, they do well, but the multiple checks on the municipalities that are going on there really are a big delay for everyone, they're big complications, they don't have time for normal work for citizens. That is why I am disappointed that you did not support the interruption of the meeting until the hearing in the Public Administration Committee. [[Law]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u17	Thank you, Mrs Fischerová. Now, in the general debate, Mr Vilímec, who is reporting from the point of view. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u18	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to speak at first reading, because I hoped that in a situation where the Committee on Public Administration had not negotiated such a serious proposal as the proposal for a law on extending the powers of the Supreme Audit Office, extending powers in terms of checks on municipalities and regions, it would not be possible for anyone to somehow brutally push through at all costs to discuss this bill. I don't know where we're going because there's no amendment to the Constitution yet, only The Chamber of Deputies approved the text now in the Senate. And perhaps he would be interested in Minister Dienstbier, also the senator, the opinion of his party colleague Senator Martínek, who presented at the financial conference of the Union of Towns and Municipalities. He said that if there is a law that is, the implementing law, in the form that is now in the Chamber of Deputies, there is no way that he would vote for the amendment of the Constitution or for this implementing law. That's why I don't think there's really a need to rush at all costs. You see, at first reading, I pointed out many pitfalls of the SAO's efforts to extend the control scope of the SAO to the region and the municipality. We know that this simply cannot be done without the respective amendment to the Constitution, and I really consider the account of the particular proposal... Perhaps it would be good if the Minister also listened to this very controversial proposal as a petitioner. In particular, I consider it very dangerous if the subject of control by the Supreme Audit Office is to assess whether it is in a particular case or not so-called effective and cost-effective treatment of the property of a territorial self-governing entity. I really consider this to be the most controversial moment of the whole draft implementing law. Yes, the special laws on municipalities or regions, the Minister certainly knows this well, assume economical management of public funds for local authorities, but the specific scope of such a procedure does not, in general, provide, because many activities cannot be assessed or narrowed down to an economic effect only. I don't know when the Supreme Audit Office comes, and now I'm not going to talk about communication, and it's going to judge whether that community, for example our city, has built a pool that we operate efficiently, so there are no financial problems, whether it's efficient, efficient, economical, or we should have built something else. I think it's just a dangerous matter, which really is an attack on the position of self-government. Since the beginning of the idea - I looked yesterday at what was in that last parliamentary term, and certainly it was the Minister, then he was a senator, he was not a minister, he followed - the ideas that the Supreme Audit Office might have the right to control the conduct of local authorities, was always only about the factual and formal correctness of their actions in self-government, nothing more. But it just says so much more about the law we're making today. We can declare or defend ourselves a thousand times by the Parliamentary Institute, and I know, of course, the opinions of other constitutional lawyers that any control of the effectiveness and economy of the management of the property of the municipalities does not formally attack their independent position, the non-aggressive formally on the rights of self-government that are constitutionally given, but the reality is quite different. Mr Bendl and Mr Adamec spoke here about the fact that there are many checks. They're really duplicate or multiplicity controls. We don't know how many checks there are anymore. Of course, the control that controls the management of municipalities and regions is a control that is regular, annual, it is a so-called review of the management of municipalities, a review of the management of regions. After all, in the regions, it is legally stipulated that the Ministry of Finance must carry out control. That means, let's ask ourselves what further control of the Supreme Audit Office should actually bring. I still don't know. You know, maybe at first, if it gets through or pushes through, the Supreme Audit Office will tread carefully in the inspection of the municipalities. He doesn't even have the staff yet. But the law opens up an area that sooner or later will make full use of the controls. At first reading, I think the rapporteur mentioned it here, it was said that even in the case of municipalities it was also public funds, so why not also check them by the Supreme Audit Office. Then let's think about it, but I'm serious right now, really over the concept of territorial self-governing property. What is the point of such a concept today if, on the other hand, we accept the theory that the local government cannot deal with its property almost autonomously? Again, we can declare a thousand times that, in fact, the Supreme Audit Office has no means of interfering with the separate jurisdiction of the local authorities and that it cannot effectively apply any sanctions against these entities. In my opinion, the control of the Supreme Audit Office itself, which ultimately also refers to the examination of the substantive and formal correctness of the procedure of self-government, is on the verge of interference with self-government, if not verification of effectiveness and economy. In fact, it narrows it down to an institute that uses some of the public property. [[19.30 hours]] I'm an elderly municipal politician, but I wasn't elected until 1990. I have no experience with community policy before November 1989. But because, of course, I also had to deal with things that fell into that pre-November period, yes, even there the national committees could actually deal with state property if they proved the purpose, effectiveness of their procedure and the handling of property. I have a feeling that by what - and this is not just a proposal to control the Supreme Audit Office, or to extend powers, but many other proposals that have been approved over the course of the 26 years, they are basically beginning to narrow self-government into almost centrally controlled former national committees. Lawmakers, as I read, do not see the danger of narrowing down the concept of self-government. Minister Dienstbier was, I think, one of the young members of the Federal Assembly, when he was first perhaps co-opted in 1990, he was not on the Czech National Council, but certainly knows the law 376 or 367, the first law on municipalities. It was then possible to talk about some sort of municipal authority. At that time it was actually created, in 1990, by the Czech National Council some legislative space so that the authorities could carry out their mission. Yes, there were certain problems and some partial things from the point of view of practical experience had to be corrected. But it wasn't some sort of legislative breakthrough. It's only happening now. And I am not just referring to this law right now, but under the utterly pointless idea that further controls, further restrictions on the powers of self-government, will bring us some effects for citizens. I don't see any effects for the citizens at all. The opposite is just the truth. There are so many checks today. And it's been here, I don't want to say it again, these checks usually come to different audit conclusions, and everyone's not as lucky as my city, which has defeated the Ministry of Finance's control in court. Not everyone's lucky. You see, the fierce effort to extend the powers of the Supreme Audit Office towards further checks on municipalities and, of course, regions, I do not want to take them out of it, is mainly a sign of creepy but even more consistent efforts to limit self-government in this country. Something like this is for me as a person who was elected in the first free elections as a municipal politician and was elected for the seventh or eighth time in a row, something like this is unacceptable to me. I originally did, because I saw that neither the inspection committee nor the constitutional committee had submitted any draft amendment to the law, I tried to make an honest attempt to do so, but then I acknowledged that it would still be just a donkey bridge to control everything in the end. So I dropped it. In my opinion, it is necessary to wait for the Senate to approve or not approve the amendment to the Constitution. As I have at least picked it up from Mr Martínek's mouth, he is not going to - and not even your party colleagues, Minister. That is why I think that at the moment the proposal, as it is presented, is pointless to discuss. Therefore, in conclusion, and it will certainly fall from other colleagues, I would like to propose that this bill be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u19	There. The motion to dismiss shall be put to the vote at the beginning of the third reading. We are still continuing with three factual points in the general debate. First Mr Adamec, then Mr Horáček, then Mr Bendl. Everybody... [[Gesticulation on the right.]] Okay. Okay. So two factual points. Mr. Adamec. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I just want to fix myself. Of course, I said here that the constitutional version was approved. Well, just in the House of Steno Recording, to be clear. And I would recommend to my fellow mayors and current mayors, I recently saw it on some TV, it was a very popular series in my time in the north. Well, look at that. I really wouldn't want to end up like that. And the Man at City Hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u21	Yes. Thank you. The man at City Hall. Okay. Mr. Mr. Horáček, then. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to go back to the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and the rapporteur, so that this is well understood. Of course, the Public Administration Committee does not block anything. There's only one reason he didn't discuss it. That means we didn't get the information on what the control system was set up. At that point, we can't decide because we don't want to punish the municipalities with any more checks, any more stamps. That's why I don't think we should have continued today. We should have really interrupted the negotiations, because I think it's in the interests of all of us here that we know the system of controls so that we can keep things in order and not expand something that can punish our communities and cities again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u23	I thank Mr Horáček for his time. Mr Bendl is reporting for a detailed debate, so he will not make use of the factual comment. I'm asking if anyone else in the general debate. Yes. In the general debate. A proper application for a general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u24	First of all, I would like to stress that this is not the information we requested from the Ministry 14 days ago or a month ago or two. We asked for that information as a committee in the spring of last year. In the spring of last year! Again, it's not a sulk or some stick that we're trying to throw at somebody, because on the subject of control and their use and efficiency and various duplications and triplits, when three control the same thing, with two entities controlling them saying: it's okay, and the third one says: it's not okay. And on that basis, the Public Administration Committee has requested this information, and I point out, across the political spectrum. We didn't play any big politics there. We just knew that's how it works in practice. And since the mayors are from both the left and the right, we had rather wide debates about it and we said we wanted numbers. It's not that we don't want to control. Make sure he's controlled, but he's consistent. And not by accepting the control conclusions on one and the same thing one control body positively and the other negatively, or one with the comments and the other with the other comments. Let the control simply be effective, consistent and really professional, and not that anyone who doesn't understand it will go there and who doesn't know anything about it. Another question is then, and that is political, you can decide how you feel about it, and that is what my colleague Vilímec said, that simply judging the decision of the council from the point of view of the efficiency of the resources spent, and we argued about it last time, if you remember it, and almost all of us had a different opinion when I asked how the Members felt when the council decided to make local sokols, beekeepers, I don't know who, associations and the like, got a culture guy, even though his community paid him and paid him to operate hundreds of thousands, or the pool, as Mr Vilímec here said, pays for a million, two million a year, not to come to the SAO and not to make a criminal out of all the representatives, because the admission fee should simply be ten times bigger to spend public funds means that the pool will be run by a balanced budget, and then it is just right. Except then no one goes in that pool and the result is this one. This is the thing that we were talking about, and I felt, like my colleague Fischerová, that you're, like, in the way that we understand that it's, like, something out of place. One thing is duplication, and I stress, no one is resisting the SAO, and after all, it is still there in the law, and if we do not pass this law, nothing will happen, because under this law, the SAO controls compliance with legislation, legislative measures, laws, sub-laws and so on. So it's not that the SAO can't go to control municipalities, regions, etc. It already is. We're just coming up with the idea of controlling self-government decisions. [[19.40 hours]] And here I point out that there is a coalition of Communists, Social Democrats in Zlín and Zlín Region, and - what's the name of the one who had the JZD? I can't figure out his name right now. Mr. President's fan. [[Mr. Chuba!]] Chuba, there you go! So he's sitting there with them, too. So he wasn't there at the meeting, but we agreed that this abuse of such politics, stupid politicization, must be removed from the legislation. It's a self-governing decision. And so much please - my colleague, and he did it right, simply the motion to reject is here primarily, and I point out that we were unable, or you didn't want us to be able to do it on the Public Administration Committee, and then let's fight it out. But why are you pushing? What's so beautiful about Dienstbier that you just want to listen to him at all costs without listening to the arguments of people, representatives and mayors? Because if you go between them, they'll tell you clearly across the political spectrum. And then the third thing I want to stress here, and I'm turning to the legislation and the lawyers that are here. This bill, and I'm going to read it to you because it probably doesn't have an equivalent, or at least I don't remember approving the legislation in which the petitioner says he's going to use it gradually and over the years. The newly approved one, which we will approve, will not be used until several years from now, and will apply it only to someone, and until then, it will apply the law, which we will now abolish. That's what I'm asking the legislatures and lawyers here, to what extent, or people who have been here for a long time than I have, if we've ever passed a law that says we're only going to follow in the coming years and only in some cases and according to the population. We will distinguish controlled persons, meaning self-government, depending on how many people they have. Some we will already - control their self-governing decisions and some we will not. For some we will follow the old law and for some we will follow the law valid. I'll read you the explanatory note so you know I'm not lying. Wait a minute. About the transitional provision, as the rapporteur here says, which I respect, but there is not a word in the law. There is only a mention in the explanatory memorandum, but in paragrafo the wording, and I would point out that it is not. It's not even in the law's effectiveness, there's nothing detailed about who's gonna make it up, whether it's gonna be run by a minister without a portfolio, or who's gonna be running it, or the SAO's gonna set it up according to who's likeable to him or not. But it says here: Until the proposed transitional period - and the period proposed is here in the text, not in paragrafo. So that's in the explanatory statement! To what extent can anyone take this seriously or not? Until the proposed transitional period by category of local authorities expires, you can hear well the different categories of self-governing units - so we simply will not treat them the same over the years, but each one according to the category to which Minister Dienstbier invents, should be territorial self-governing units, possibly. legal persons controlled by them only to the extent that this is permitted by the existing legislation. Without this provision, there would be a paradoxical situation in the transitional period in which local authorities could not be controlled at all, even to a wider extent under the new regulation proposed, nor to a narrower extent under the current regulation. I'm not even commenting on that! So we're gonna make this law rubber, and then we're gonna go through the Chamber of Deputies, and then somebody's gonna figure out who's ever actually gonna be subject to a system of control, to what extent it's gonna be there, and so whether it's gonna be valid under the former regulation or under the applicable regulation. Who's gonna decide? Because the law makes it clear what's to be controlled and how it's to be controlled. And then someone decides that we're not going to control it this way, according to the given paragraph? Minister Dienstbier laughs. Maybe he doesn't understand because laughter is always the last degree of hopelessness. I would like that explanation before the bill ever passes through the Chamber of Deputies. Yeah, you can sulk, you can say I made it up. So I probably didn't hear those local politicians, mayors and representatives criticize this in particular. You may not hear it either, but it would be good for you to stand before them, whether it's at the level of the Union of Cities and Cities, or at the level of another self-government, to tell them in their eyes that this didn't bother you that Dienstbier was right, because that's the perpetrator of this one, I'm going to say for myself, the deniability that needs to be straightened and not to let go in this form. So, please, I'm joining the motion to dismiss the law at third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u25	Thank you. So I'm asking if anyone else is in the general debate. If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking - is there an interest in the final word? The Minister will, the rapporteurs will change their minds. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u26	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would like to try briefly to respond to some of the discussions that have been made here. Mr Vilímec said that we should suspend this law or wait until the Senate approves the amendment to the Constitution, which has already been approved here in the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to remind you, and I have already said it here in the introductory words that a resolution has been adopted in the Senate, that the Senate, on the contrary, is interrupting the constitutional amendment until it is passed by the Chamber of Deputies, precisely this law, which is to implement the amendment. In other words, Mr Vilímec here demands that we get into a vicious circle and never actually discuss this matter. I understand that it can be acceptable from the point of view of someone who does not want to approve such a change at all, but I think that would be an absurd consequence. And the fact that this bill is to implement the amendment of the Constitution, which has already been approved by the House, and is based on the assumption that it will be approved in the Senate, must consistently adhere to the limits laid down in the proposed constitutional amendment. From this point of view, the Government's bill is very grounded, actually defining constitutional concepts to the lowest possible extent in relation to local government precisely by establishing that it will carry out control in relation to legality under the legislation governing the activities of individual self-governing bodies. If we must adhere to the limits of the Constitution, it is not possible to rule them out entirely by implementing law. From this point of view, I would like to point out here that, in principle, this whole debate should have been held here in the Chamber of Deputies at the time of the adoption of the amendment to the Constitution, because we as a government are now bound by this change, provided, of course, that it is approved. I suppose if the Senate doesn't approve the amendment to the Constitution, they won't, of course, approve this bill. However, he wants to decide at the same time. What was said here from the point of view of duplication, triplicite etc. and also in relation to the requirement to provide an overview of the control mechanisms. I responded during the committee's meeting, and we made it to the Constitutional Legal Committee, and we did this on our own initiative in the Government Legislative Council section and at least the Members of the Constitutional Legal Committee got it. We responded because the analysis was not completed at the government level, and we wanted Members to have it at their disposal when discussing the law completely outside the scope of my office, virtually. That part of the Office of the Government that I'm responsible for. What fell here in the end from Mr Bendl. I would ask him to read the bill properly, because he claimed, and quote here from the explanatory memorandum that it is only there. If he looks into the bill, it contains Article 2 Transitional provisions where the mechanism is described precisely how the law will gradually expand in terms of controlling the management of public funds in self-government to municipalities by population. I mean, it's nobody's pleasure. [[19.50 hours]] It is there exactly one year after year until 2021, to which the municipalities will extend. This does not mean that there is a double mechanism, because to the extent that the SAO can control self-governing bodies today, nothing will change with regard to the smaller municipalities. Only the wider control, as defined by the proposed amendment to the Constitution, will be gradually on the smaller municipalities. In fact, from a government perspective, these transitional measures might not be there. Here we went to the Union of Towns and Municipalities, which required, among other things. A gradual run-up, even parts of senators who come from self-government, whether regional or municipal, demanded this too. However, I say that from a government point of view, it is irrelevant whether the transitional provisions are there. I think at this stage, I think a reaction from my side might be enough. As I say, a fundamental debate was to be held particularly when approving the amendment. Because if anyone wanted to apply those arguments, at this point it is too late, because if we anticipate the approval of the amendment to the Constitution, we cannot limit the scope of the SAO provided for in the Constitution by this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u27	Thank you and I ask the rapporteurs if they are interested in final words. A colleague of Stupčuk's for a guarantee committee, yes. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u28	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just briefly like to respond to some of the remarks made by my previous speakers, so that there is no impression that perhaps we are really approving some fundamental change that would change the quality and quantity of control in a revolutionary way compared to the current situation. There's words like duplicate, multiplicity. I think duplication is wrong in any way. It's something that doubles something, and in that sense it seems pointless. On the contrary, multiplicity in its character may not be something that is wrong. Multiplicity currently appears in our control environment in the state administration. You must know that there is a law on public financial control, where it is called. Three-stage control. The check is a preliminary, continuous, follow-up of all these processes. And, of course, the central body of the state administration, which unites it and has some sort of supervision in the area of state administration, is the Ministry of Finance. So you can see that in state administration conditions, it's standard that there's a multiplicity of control. And, of course, the government is also formed on the basis of election results, when someone is running for office with their electoral program and says how public funds will be spent and managed. In this sense, the legitimacy of the government's management and self-government mandate is exactly the same, I dare say, if both are the result of democratic elections. After all, you can build the pool with state money, not just the municipal ones. And it could turn out to be a good thing or a bad thing. And even under state administration conditions, the SAO can come and say that the control is wrong. Last one. I am surprised that there is no mention that you do not see as an intervention in self-government the current situation, when municipalities control their management of financial offices, which are part of the executive power, e.g. for subsidies or other subsidy grants. The SAO is also independent of the government. It's important to know. It is also important to know that possible checks will always be established in advance by the SAO's approval of the so-called SAO. the control plan for the specified period, so that, unlike the multiplicity of those checks which are subject to self-government today, including from regions, etc., this control will always be known in advance and the municipality or region will be able to prepare for it to a sufficient degree. And the last argument. I think that, as I know the nature of the SAO's control, as well as perhaps in relation to the multiplicity checks, it is good that such control activities will be carried out by the SAO, because I still believe that the SAO's control activity has greater authority and is a true expression of the independence and impartial body that carries it out. So that's a brief remark. Of course, it is also possible to refer to foreign legislation and to make a comparison. But I certainly don't want the impression that we approve of something that is fundamentally revolutionary. We're just standardizing the environment, and we're saying, there's no difference in what public funds you manage, whether it's state or municipal. All public funds should be placed under the control of the Supreme Audit Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u29	Thank you. My colleague Chvojka wants? [[He doesn't want to.]] A colleague of the Petrů? He doesn't want to either. So I'm ending the general debate. I am opening the debate in detail and I have the application from my colleague Kubíček, and a colleague Václav Klučka will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to sign up for an amendment that is deposited in the system as House document 3471. The amendment includes a detailed explanatory memorandum which you can read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u31	Thank you. Now, a colleague, Václav Klučka, in a detailed debate, will prepare a colleague, Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. First of all, I have to apologize because I'm in a double role here. First of all, allow me to read for the absentee colleague Seda, who was sent by the Chamber of Deputies on a foreign business trip, his amendment, which is in the system under No. 3257. It contains text including justification. I also apply to my amendment, which is in the system under No. 3533. De facto, this amendment merely regulates in a certain way the text of Mr Sed in the first part of his amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u33	Thank you to my colleague Václav Klučka. Now, Mr Ludvík Hovorka, Mr Petr Bendl will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u34	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Dear Ministers, Dear Colleagues, Dear Colleagues, I am signing up for my amendment, which is placed in the system under No. 3527. It is an amendment to the House press 610 to the amendment to the Act on the SAO. An additional point shall be inserted. In Article 12, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column Reason: A change in the termination of the duties of a member of the Office is proposed by reaching the age of 65 to 70 years. This proposal is based on an approved amendment to Act No. 234/2014 Sb., on the amendment of the Service Act No. 211/2002 Coll., which postponed the termination of the civil servant's service from 65 to 70 years. The reason for this was changes in pension insurance, when for persons born in 1966 and later the age needed for entitlement to an old-age pension was higher than 65 years. The amendment was therefore intended to avoid ending the service with this group of civil servants by law before reaching retirement age. The same limit of 70 years has also been proposed for this amendment taking into account legislation for certain categories of persons, such as judges and prosecutors. There is no reason for derogations to apply to members of the Office than to other categories of civil servants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u35	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Mr Petr Bendl will take the floor in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u36	Thank you for the floor. I would like a proposal to reject this law at third reading in a detailed debate. And I'll allow myself to justify it. Because as I listened to Minister Dienstbier, who is operating on some vicious circle, the vicious circle could be cut by Members of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development getting the analysis. Given that they asked for it in the spring of last year and now it is January or the end of January 2016 - and in addition, Minister Dienstbier here admitted that other Members, not the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, were given some kind of material called analysis, but Members of the Constitutional Committee, although they must know that if there are experienced local politicians and regional representatives, they are on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I don't understand why we didn't get it. Whether it was intent or incompetence. One or the other, it can't really be anything else, because I don't believe they don't have that information, because they've had it several times from the Public Administration and Regional Development Committee. [[20.00 hours]] Amendment to the Constitution. It can't be said that I will follow the Constitution's amendment when the ústava doesn't apply yet. Our legislative procedure is as follows: it must first be agreed by the Chamber of Deputies, then by the Senate, there is some effectiveness, it must be signed by the President and so on and so on. If the Minister responsible for legislation here says he has to follow the law that passed the Chamber of Deputies, but he doesn't pay yet, I don't understand it at all, as I don't understand it when it says... And it's not true what the rapporteur here said to me just as far as the side that it's described there. If you look, I mean the technology of the decision on how individual self-governments will be controlled in individual years, so even though point 2 is stated in the law, there is no characteristic of the size of municipalities and so on -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u37	Mr. Ambassador, I have to interrupt you because we voted to start another point at 20 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u38	I understand, Mr. Chairman, I'm leaving.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u39	There is nothing else for me to do, although I wanted to end second reading, because the only procedural proposal was to reject a proposal which is voted either way in the third reading, that I cannot do anything else, that I am interrupting the debate, when you are still logged in and you have the right to speak in a detailed debate, to justify my proposals. So I'm interrupting the Supreme Audit Office Act. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteurs. I'm done with this point. For the 20th hour, we agreed to discuss another point. I'll hand over the meeting management.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-19-ps2013-039-01-008-007.u40	Good evening, dear fellow Member, dear fellow Members. At the 20th hour, the point was firmly placed today
