ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-003-076.u1	76. Proposal of Members of Miroslav Kalousek, František Laudát and others for the issue of a law on the competence of the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Czech Republic in the management of companies controlled by the state /house print 167/ - first reading We discussed this House press on 11 February 2015 at the 25th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when we interrupted it in the general debate. It is the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies number 632. I remind you that the Government's position has been delivered as Parliament's press 167/1, and I ask that Mr Miroslav Kalousek and Mr Ivan Pilný take the position at the rapporteur's desk and the rapporteur for the first reading. Before I open the suspended general debate, I ask whether the appellant Kalousek wants to speak for the appellant. Please, you can get out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-003-076.u2	I don't want to appear as a plaintiff because I performed on this point a year ago. I would like to thank you emotionally, colleagues, for returning to this point after the year in which the debate at first reading was interrupted. And when we have some discussions about who's blocking who's law and what obstructions we're doing, please remember that a year ago we interrupted the debate at first reading of this bill. Thanks again for letting us get back to that after a year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-003-076.u3	Thank you. I ask whether Mr Pilný wants to speak before the debate is opened. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-003-076.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I just briefly, because a year has really passed, repeat the reasons which will lead me to propose that this law be rejected at first reading. It was said in justifying this proposal that it was a simple proposal. I can agree with that. I would just remind you of the quote that is attributed to Albert Einstein, who says that things and processes are supposed to be simple, but not simplified, because then they are - with regard to the petitioners I say no use. You have a government opinion that says that this law violates the fundamental rules of law-making, because it must not be an indirect amendment to other laws. There's a total of seven of those laws. The reasons for non-compliance with European Union law are set out below. The basic facts that define what it really is for business companies are left out of ownership participation, how it is to be characterised. And also from the bill's proposal and the explanatory memorandum, there is no clear subject matter or coordination and methodical function to be carried out by this law. I must further say that the Ministry of Industry and Trade in a number of commodities is responsible for the state's strategy. Non-state companies also operate in these commodities and, as a result, the State could be charged with violating the rules of free competition, not only in the Czech Republic but also in the territory of the European Union. For this reason, I repeat that I will propose that this law be rejected at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-003-076.u5	Thank you, too. So we will now continue with the interrupted general debate, in which I am registering Mr Snopek's envoy. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-003-076.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been a year since we discussed this bill. Since then, things have changed and happened. I think we have a government bill on the table that changes Law No. 77/1997 Coll., on State Enterprise, as amended. It is on the basis of this law that I have come to the conclusion, after a year's reflection, that if I made a proposal last year for a return to the drafting of this law, I believe that it is precisely in the context of this law that we should give this law a chance to complete it as a complement to the already mentioned government bill. Therefore, I withdraw my original procedural proposal to return to work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-003-076.u7	Okay, thank you, Mr. Ambassador, I'm keeping an eye on it. Now, then, President Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-003-076.u8	Thank you. I don't want to delay long enough to get to other bills that don't wait a short time, they're also waiting about a year. Just a brief response to the rapporteur. Indirect amendment is not a forbidden step. It is not the usual step, it may be a nonsystemic step, but it is not forbidden, and the government has already changed laws several times in this parliamentary term when several of them were to be changed by an indirect amendment. That's nothing we don't know or would be forbidden. That this is directly contrary to European Union law - there is one problem that I have already announced at first reading. One founder must not, according to European Union regulations, be the founder of the joint-stock company ČEZ and the joint-stock company ČEPS. No one shall be the owner of both the source and the transmission system. This was dealt with once by ČEPS moving under the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and if you decided now to change the system, that the Ministry of Industry and Trade would be the founder of ČEZ, logically in the same way -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-003-076.u9	I apologize, Mr President, for entering into your speech, but I will ask you, colleagues, to keep your voice down, because the level of noise here is really great. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-003-076.u10	All you have to do is kolovratník, otherwise everyone's quiet. So in the same way, I would logically like to move ČEPS from the Ministry of Industry to another founder of the central government body and it would be resolved in the same way. I think that the question we will ask ourselves when voting on this bill is very simple: do we want to have strategic sectors that are owned by the state, to develop them and make them competitive, or to cash liabilities at any cost? The task of the Minister of Finance is to get maximum liabilities out of them, that is, after all, the style of his business. He didn't build much out of his empire, he chained it up. He always bought, cashed out the liabilities, bought a new one for the liabilities, and that's how he does business. No offense, it's a legitimate way, but I don't think this is how the state should do business. The state should develop its strategic sectors, take care of them, make them competitive, which logically is not the task of the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance has a different task. At my time, when I was also the founder of these industries, I responded by proposing, along with other colleagues from the government, the establishment of the Ministry of Economics, a project that was still being launched in the Nečasův government. If it had not fallen prematurely, the Ministry of Economics project would have been implemented, which would have a founding role over these strategic companies with state ownership participation, and it would not have been the Ministry of Finance. I can easily prove, without it being any big argument for the Chamber of Deputies, that you will find the same intention in the TOP 09 electoral programme in the 2013 elections. I'm saying this so it doesn't look like it's Lex Babiš or Lex Mládek. It's something we're systemically convinced of and have been trying to do for five years. Of course, nothing will happen, bread will bake and the sun will rise. But in this vote, each of you answers the question: do we want this ownership to milk it, or do we want ownership because it is our strategic businesses that we want to develop and make competitive? I stress that no state has ever had that property for its own income. [[17.30 hours]] Because if it were income, it would be possible to privatise it and that income could be achieved much more effectively. The State has assets because it guarantees certain strategic decisions in certain sectors that cannot be privatised, such as energy. I therefore believe that our proposal is quite appropriate that it corresponds to the current security energy and international policy situation. That I realize that there are some moments of environmental importance or agricultural importance that can be talked about in second reading, and I am not a maximumist. However, to get rid of the possibility of discussing this in the professional bodies of the Chamber of Deputies at second reading, I would consider it a mistake, and I would therefore like to be released for second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-003-076.u11	Thank you. I note Mr Urban's factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-003-076.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think it can be called a non-systemic step, because we have to look at some kind of history. This is about exercising shareholder rights. Today he is the executor of shareholder rights The Ministry of Finance, not because it was determined by Brusel or anything else, but it was created by the disappearance of the National Property Fund and it was transferred to the Ministry of Finance. In the National Property Fund, not only the Ministry of Finance, but also the Ministry of Industry and Trade, both of these ministries were executors of shareholder rights, which was the abolition of the National Property Fund and the transfer of this residual National Property Fund to the Ministry of Finance, so that the Ministry of Finance is the executor of shareholder rights, which I do not consider to be an entirely optimal solution in the long term. It is true that there should be a ministry that ensures development, a strategy for real corporate policy, a real economy, and that, in my opinion, should be much more the Ministry of Economics. The Treasury should be here to collect taxes and stuff. From this point of view, I cannot confirm that this is a non-systemic solution. It is not a non-systemic solution, and it is customary, even if you look into the advanced countries of the European Union, that the Ministry of Finance is simply not an executor of shareholder rights there. On the contrary, it's the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I am glad that the translator here said without having to criticize that there are some things that need to be corrected, no doubt. However, in my opinion, it is a proposal that is for discussion, not for some simple refusal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-003-076.u13	Thank you. I'm also registering two applications. First Mr Laudát, Mr Stanjura after him. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-003-076.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to put in a very good word as co-chair for you to put this proposal on second reading. It is not really aimed at any Ministry, but it is you who operate in the Economic Committee that you know that the situation in energy, in the energy sector, is changing so dramatically, the situation in companies that produce, distribute, etc. for example fuel and other and other things. That is why we believe that it would be systemically good for the state to really transfer those companies where there is a professional background, and that strategic decisions will become increasingly crucial than a simple source of revenue finance for the state budget. You know for yourself what basically and social problems lead to, and not only to social problems, that they got rid of self-government time, for example. control of drinking water and other infrastructure matters. And as far as energy is concerned, you know that it's really moving somewhere else. Most likely the electricity producer of the semi-state CEZ will no longer be such a large source of revenue for the state budget, sometimes the price of energy production falls to very small values and it is hard to return to the original values that we were used to in the past decade for example. And it's becoming more and more decision-making, into which more than the economy needs expertise, concrete, practical. You know the big discussion of the amendment to the Energy Act, which... I guess this whole thing isn't over yet about how much citizens are going to pay for energy, etc. etc. So I'm really challenging you. It's not about nagging. We can also talk about the fact that there can be a legislative adjustment in the second reading, we can discuss whether the law will apply with a short period or, for example, for the next period. But let's take conceptual steps so that other successors have a little easier work. The same is what I would ask that the government consider and in a similar guard start thinking about changing competences so that the desperately fragmented development of innovation, the promotion of innovative projects gets under one ministry. Today, the situation is miserable, and our entire country is paying for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-003-076.u15	Thank you, too. Now, then, Mr Stanjura, with his contribution to the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-003-076.u16	Thank you for the floor. So first of all, I want to say that we're going to support the release for second reading, and now I'm going to give it a brief reason. As citizens' democrats, we have long proposed the creation of one Ministry of Economic Affairs as a second strong economic resort alongside the Ministry of Finance. Once we had, even under communists, sectoral ministries: Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Energy, Ministry of Post and Telecommunications, Construction and Construction and so on. Some of the Communist ministers already have state honours from that time, or at this time, for the way they worked at the ministries at that time. But the last thing that's left is the Department of Transport. And I think it would be good if we - probably not in this parliamentary term, because if the coalition government and now someone loses one chair, it's a politically unsolvable problem, even though it's effective. Moreover, in this coalition government transport and the MIT have two different political parties, which is always more complicated. But it would be a way to transfer the powers of exercising shareholder rights to the MIT to the future Ministry of Economics. In many countries, I think we can learn, and there is no reason for transport to be pulled out of the economy and to have its own resort as a single sector of the economy. In my opinion, too, Czech Post is completely illogical at the Ministry of the Interior. It should belong to the future Ministry of Economy. I'm just convinced of it. I think that some colleagues in particular from the ANO movement misunderstand this law that it is an anti-Babish law. So let's say we have to pay from the next term. That's better, too. Moreover, the end of the term is relentlessly approaching. So it might as well be. You'll get rid of the suspicion that the law is anti-Babish. Now just a simple example, for example, of the traffic. In the eyes of the public, of course, and of course, the Ministry of Transport has full responsibility for, for example, the functioning of the Czech Railways. In addition to the Board of Directors, České dráhy is managed by the so-called "ČD." a management committee appointed by the State. There are seven members, and although the Ministry of Transport rightly has 100% responsibility for the functioning of the Czech Railways in the eyes of the public, it has three of the seven members of the Management Committee. This means 100% responsibility, but less than 50 percent possibility of delegation and influencing the decision-making of the key body of the Czech Railways, this is the Steering Committee. All of this, in my opinion, confirms the legitimacy of our long-term goal of having one Ministry of Economics. If we let this go, let's talk about efficiency so you don't think we're taking anything from your minister. Then, of course, there are things that the chairman of the Economic Committee has been talking about, where it is simply not possible, for example, for ČEPS and ČEZ to exercise shareholder rights from one place. I understand that. No one's resisting that. And if European competition rules do not allow it, then, of course, we must prepare for it. But do you really think that in the area of economy or economy, we should have one politically superstrong minister and the other such poor relatives? I think it would be good for future coalition governments to have two strong economic ministries. And this is a step in the right direction. So we could let it go to second reading. In committees, we can talk about effectiveness. About which competence or exercise of which shareholder rights it makes sense to transfer and which does not. [[17.40 hours]] By denying it, okay, you're gonna say great, you didn't take anything from Babiš, we're moving on. But it doesn't solve anything. The fragmented exercise of shareholder rights. Besides, I don't know if it's always right for the Treasury to exercise shareholder rights. Mr. Chairman Kalousek will confirm that I thought the same thing when we were together in the coalition government. Even then, we as civil democrats suggested it, so it is not a response to a specific government, a specific finance minister and a specific Minister of Industry and Trade. I'd say no to the words that it's unsystemic. On the contrary, I think the design is heading in a systemic direction. And if anyone wants to improve something, modify something, change it, then at some other time than second reading within the committees, or after the plenary session at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-003-076.u17	Thank you, too. I wonder if anyone else is joining the general debate. I don't see anyone. If this is the case, then I shall end the general debate and ask, where appropriate, the final words of the appellant or rapporteur. The rapporteur, please, the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-003-076.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I'm not here to argue about the creation of the Ministry of Economics, by the way, it's a very reasonable idea, but that's not what the law is about, unfortunately. And transforming this simple text into something like that is simply not possible. For this reason, I will repeat my motion to dismiss at first reading. I also do not want to argue about how, if the state is to do business at all, this is not the subject of this law. For this reason, I think that the Ministry of Economics can certainly be discussed in another law or another time, but this law simply cannot be transformed into one. So I repeat again the motion to dismiss the law at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-003-076.u19	Now, then, the final word of the petitioner. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-003-076.u20	If it's the rapporteur, I have to, too. Ladies and gentlemen, try to answer for yourself the question of what is the point of the fact that the Czech Railways are under the Ministry of Transport, while the airport is under the Ministry of Finance. I remember some of my premieres who weren't able to get used to it, and when there was a problem with the airport, they called the Minister of Transport because they didn't even think it was the Minister of Finance. Just as any energy problem with the supply of oil, the supply of products, the energy crisis, the entire public, including the Prime Minister, is likely to turn to the Minister of Industry, because from the point of view of the law of competence, he has it in his portfolio, and he says, "I can't do it, the chief of the finance minister who will call it, as in the case of Fajád: I'm not here at all, don't ask me anything. It just doesn't make any sense. It's gonna take a system adjustment. We've been trying to do the system adjustment, and we can prove it. Already at the time of our term, the process was started in which the transition of Section 6 of the Ministry of Finance, which is the former National Property Fund, with the founding functions of the Ministry of Industry as the first step, the second step was to link the Ministry of Industry, Transport, some agendas of the Ministry for Local Development, the formation of the Ministry of Economy, but at least this cannot be proposed from the opposition, this really must be a government project, the creation of the Ministry of Economy. But the first step that at least says: We do not have the finance minister to feed them to the budget, we have these businesses because they protect our security and it is a strategic sector that we want to develop and make competitive, which is not the task of the finance minister. That's why he doesn't have it, regardless of whether his name is Babiš, Kalousek or Faltýnek or Komárek, it doesn't matter. It just belongs elsewhere, and that's why this proposal makes sense, and I'm asking for his release for second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-09-ps2013-039-07-003-076.u21	Thank you. The final words were spoken. Since Mr Snopek has withdrawn his proposal for a return to work, we are left with only one vote and therefore Mr Pilný's proposal for a rejection. I'll call in colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. I'm registering a request for your check-out, so I'm going to check you out and ask you to come forward again. Since the number has settled, I will say what we will vote on. I am voting on who is in favour of rejecting the proposal. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 158, 145 Members are registered, for proposal 77, against 36. I note that this proposal has been approved and this proposal is rejected in the first reading. I'm done discussing this point. Before we go any further, I'll read the note that came to me. From 18 o'clock to the end of the day, for personal reasons, Mrs Matušovská apologizes, from 17.20 to the end of today's day, for work reasons, Mr Jakubčík apologizes and from 17.30 to 19 o'clock, for work reasons, Ms Helena Válková apologises. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's the point.
