ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-052-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 52nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Welcome, everyone. I called this meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure at the request of 41 Members. The invitation was given to you through the parliamentary clubs on 3 November of this year. I beg you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, notify me of a replacement card, with the payment of the replacement cards that were announced at the previous meeting. We would now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr Jiří Dolejš and Mrs Kristýna Zelienková as the verifier. I'll ask if there's another suggestion. If it isn't, we'll vote. I'll wait... We already have an adequate forum. So I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees that the verifiers of this meeting should be Mr Dolejš and Mrs Zelienková. Who's against it? It's vote number one. It's logged in 107, 102, against no one. This proposal has been adopted and I note that Mr Dolejš and Mrs Zelienková are therefore verifiers of the 52nd meeting. Apologies also apply as they were presented at the 51st meeting. We'll proceed to the 52nd meeting. The proposal is given on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No amendment or addition to the programme can be proposed, nor can the approved programme be extended. Before we vote, I have two requests to speak with priority rights. First, Mr Laudát and then Mr Kováčik. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-052-01-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we were co-initiators together with the ODS club of this extraordinary meeting, at which first we want to give actually probably small businessmen a last chance to postpone the law, or the effectiveness of the e-booking of sales for a selectively selected, consequently affected group of entrepreneurs. Secondly, the next point is the very strange behaviour of the Ministry of Transport around information about what is actually happening around the staged section of the D8 motorway through the České středohoří. In the past, we have in vain suggested that you want to impose total control over Czech entrepreneurs by introducing electronic sales records in order not to destroy tradesmen who earn small amounts, doctors who provide outpatient care, for small amounts, so that you do not get nervous and destroy farmers' markets, which have become very promising in some cities and localities. That is why we have proposed, and it is also one of the examples here, to at least exempt VAT payers from electronic sales records. Unfortunately, this is not accentated. I am sorry, therefore, that since you are going to disapprove of the agenda for this meeting, I am forced to submit the bill or the House press, which you received under number 918/0, and where the petitioner is actually a proposal by Members Miroslav Kalousek and Martin Plíšek, it is a draft amendment to the law amending Act No. 112/2016 Sb., on the record of sales. The principle is very simple. In principle, the law is regulated, or the amendment regulates the existing applicable law so that the sharp introduction of electronic sales records is postponed to 2019. I believe that you did not go to the elections, to the previous elections, that in this way you will prosecute all entrepreneurs across regardless of the type of business, regardless of the size of their business, regardless of the size of their sales etc. And, of course, Mr Babiš looked at the project in Croatia, which is in a completely different category of countries than the Czech Republic in terms of the grey or shadow economy as regards the state of the economy, economic growth. I believe that voters should decide whether or not to apply this law in the next elections. Therefore, it is proposed in this material, in this amendment, a delay to 1. 1. 2019. I hope that whatever you do not want to meet our proposals, so that the Constitutional Court will also start thinking about whether, as practice has begun in this government, there will be more and more parameters, and quite fundamental parameters, which the government will decide by its resolution. In the case of electronic sales records, this has become unprecedented and I believe that if this passes the constitutional test, then any other government can do whatever it wants. It can selectively prosecute entrepreneurs, place them under some kind of control or eliminate them and, of course, it can be used to compete with business or political. I can imagine that entrepreneurs, and at this first stage actually providers of catering and accommodation services in large cities, will survive this snooping, babysitting and slamming duty, which will certainly not be for the small money that you have said here in the case of agitation and the presentation and defending of this law. But at this point, I am thinking of what is happening in a small Czech countryside, where small communities are dying, inn facilities are often the last gigs, where even the people who live there communicate, where they meet, where they discuss things both private and public. And you're totally fatal - it's not about big breakouts, it's not about big sales. I don't know if in some inn facility, when a few people have a few beers every night, if these pubs, where I think operators often actually work more out of habit, from tradition, and since they enjoy doing business in this business, I dare say that sometimes they don't even make minimum wages out of their profits. [[12.30 hours]] Mr. Jurečka and KDU-ČSL are still fighting in the breasts that the country policy must do, inventing subsidies. Perhaps instead, it would be enough if not only this measure, but the way you behave in relation to the redistribution of subsidies to agriculture, you did not declassify rural small settlements and municipalities in the way that this happens. In fact, you are gravediggers of the Czech countryside. The subsidies go only in a large number of cases. You guys just showed up here with excise duty. So instead of the money always going to the landlord's cadastral, it's going to be the big corporations, the big groups of business in agriculture, so the money isn't going to go to the particular territory of the municipalities, so the country is actually going to be blackmailed, it's going to be poor. This is the real real impact of Jurečkův's grant policy, the financial policy of the Ministry of Finance. And, of course, electronic sales records also fit into this context. In addition to the very nature, and I'm not gonna read the press here, I want to save your time after the great self-obstruction of Minister Zaorálek, so I'm not gonna read the press. You got him. It's printing number 918/0. So each of you decide whether you want to continue to participate in the depopulation of the Czech countryside, in the decline of the local business, virtually. His demise. I highly recommend that you look at the statistics on how entrepreneurs grow or decline in individual regions, in individual cities, in individual regions, and then you may realize what you have prepared for the Czech countryside and especially the Czech countryside. However, I have also noted that the Minister of Finance has designated KSČM MP Vladimír Koníček as some sort of evil enemy of his. I suppose it is the same thing that I would like to draw attention to when the inspection committee was made aware that it was probably the institution that was created by the division of the State price printer, so that the act was in accordance with the Czech legal order. I, in agreement with the members of the Supervisory Committee, believe that neither do I. What's going on, I'm gonna try to explain a little quick. The creation of a new state-owned company State Treasury Centre for Shared Services, state-owned enterprise. On the basis of the approval of the Government of the Czech Republic by Resolution No. 854 of 20 October 2014 and following the opinion of the Supervisory Board of the State Printing Company, the Founder of 30 October 2014 decided, namely the Ministry of Finance, by his decision of 3 October 2014. 11. 2014, reference number of the Ministry of Finance, I will not read about the division of the State Pricing Printer, the state enterprise, the split with the subsequent establishment of the new State Treasury, the Joint Services Centre, the state enterprise, which was founded on the basis of the above decision, and the charter of the Ministry of Finance, again there is a number, on 3. 11. 2014. Please draw attention to term three. 11. 2014. The decisive date and effective date of distribution of the State price printer, state enterprise, is day 1. 1. 2015. Legal analysis of this operation - The Act on a State Enterprise, as amended, only allows the creation of a new state enterprise or the division of a state enterprise with the disappearance of the original undertaking pursuant to § 7 para. 2. Mr Stupčuk's amendment of 16. 9. 2015, so more than a year later, the Postal Services Act introduces, in addition to the division, the possibility of splitting up a state enterprise without having to cease its original business. It was initiated by the Minister of the Interior, who has some idea of structural changes in the Czech Post. It is interesting that the government, in the case of the division of the State's Cenin Printer Company, believes that it is acting in accordance with the law, Minister Chovanec was aware that it is not acting in accordance with the law, therefore the possibility of so-called "delay" was added with delay. the division of a state enterprise. It wasn't before, so the procedure can be considered illegal. The Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic has supplied the Government with the reference number 1186/14 for resolution 854. Subsequently, the government decided on a legal act that did not have legal support in the legal order of the Czech Republic at the time, that is to say, acted unlawfully. In this context it is necessary to reiterate that under the Act on State Enterprise as amended, i.e. today, Act No.77/1997 Coll., when the division of the company passes the property of the company to the newly created enterprises to the extent specified in the decision of the founder of the division, again there is a paragraph, i.e. This is not and cannot be a separation by splintering. For the division of an undertaking pursuant to Article 7 (1) (a) (ii) of the basic Regulation: The application for registration of a new undertaking must be submitted at the same time as the proposal for deletion of the cancelled undertaking, on the date of registration in the Commercial Register. The removal of the undertaking being destroyed and the registration of the undertaking resulting from the merger or division shall be made on the same date. At the same time, the establishment of the State Treasury is illegal as well as the Centre for Shared Services, as referred to in Article 1 (1) of the Act. 1.5 of that undertaking's status is stated that the undertaking is set up by division, split-off, and a section of the other elements within the business register is also identical. The effect is that it is possible to require the winding-up of the newly created company, since it was established and entered in the Commercial Register in breach of the law. In this context, it can be pointed out, for example, the provisions of Paragraph 9 (2) of the EC Treaty. 1 of Act No. 304/2013 Coll., on public registers of legal and natural persons, as amended, which states that if the content of the registration in the public register contradicts the forceful provision of the law, unless otherwise possible, the registry court shall invite the registered person to settle the remedy. Where a legal person is involved and does not provide for redress within the prescribed time limit, the court may, even if such a procedure is in the interest of protecting third parties, decide to abolish it with liquidation. It is surprising that the registry court has at all admitted the rightfulness of the establishment of the State Enterprise of the Shared Services Centre and the registration of this organisation in the Commercial Register when the establishment itself is unlawful. It is a question of what role the commercial court played in the registration, whether, in addition to the proposal for the registration of a new state enterprise, it should have requested a proposal for the abolition of a state-owned company, a state-owned company. A specialist in commercial law must comment on the matter. [[12.40 hours]] Why am I saying this here? Again, I could read another government resolution that allowed this. Follow-up and analysis of the fact that the Minister of the Interior did the right thing when he pushed through his colleague Stupčuk for the split-up amendment. Now I can imagine that one of those entrepreneurs who will not be a fan of the Electronic Services Recording Act will challenge this fact in court, and, frankly, the court should comply with it. If the organization introduces and enforces this law and applies it, then everything should be thrown off the table. At the same time, I call on the House's Audit Committee to continue to address this matter and, where appropriate, to request the Supreme Audit Office to carry out its control, or to take further steps. Ladies and gentlemen, on this matter, because many have already been said about electronic records of sales, there are many forgeries, many lies, many false numbers, it makes no sense to repeat them and over and over again. We are doing this more or less this year's last attempt. As for the others, although this is rejected, since you have, the government, in your hand the legislative option parametrically, actually stop the application at the time of Christmas coming, at a time when it is the most important business period for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, so that you do so. It's our very urgent call, a very urgent appeal. If you even want to talk about actually protecting businessmen, at least do it and at least let businessmen have a quiet Christmas. Thank you. As for another example, ladies and gentlemen, normal things or normal matters that are happening, or abnormal matters that are happening around the stage of the D8 motorway between Lovosice and Lovosice respectively. Today by Bílinka and Řehlovice, they would certainly deserve the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. However, since we are already swamped by committees of inquiry of all kinds, I think there may already be some fatigue. Just from what I know about the issues in question, the question is, how much will the Minister of Transport be willing to say here, so let me warn you that the current problems of the original D48 motorway in the section near Ostrava are a weak departure of what is happening and can still happen in the future on the staged section of the D8 motorway, which is built at a relatively long distance in the sesuových territories. I asked after the Ministry of Transport hand in hand with the investor, which is the Directorate of Roads and Motorways, and the Railway and Transport Infrastructure Administration, which was also a participant in a large slide that arose, whether I was wrong, from 5 to 7 June 2013 in the event of major floods, so when I noticed that an action was filed for a quarry there in Dobkovičky, with the fact that, according to some expert opinion of the Institute of the Academy of Sciences, he was to cause damage or to participate in the damage which the State would be very interested in, whether I am correct or broad, to cause, I asked the Ministry of Transport under the relevant law on access to public information, so that not only I, but also the Members would be provided with this analysis subsequently, because it would be very interested in me, and the Ministry of Transport rejected it with the fact that there is a lawsuit, therefore it is the subject of legal proceedings and we are not entitled to this material. A few weeks ago, an article came out that dealt with at least a little bit of the problem on the D8 motorway, where the author stated that he had gotten to the study. Members of Parliament do not have access, the public does not have access, some journalist limited himself to saying that everything is different, or a number of things are otherwise in the opinion than the Minister of Transport says publicly, so he is done with this statement, but I say, according to his claim he has the opinion, we do not have it. The first question is to the Minister of Transport whether he will publish the full text of this analysis, so that it will be accessible not only to all Members of the House but to the entire public. I would very much like to begin to speak frankly, transparently, without excuses about what is happening on the stage of the D8 motorway. About three Sundays ago I am, because I am moving in the transport industry, it is my policy topic for 20 years, I know these people, from these circles I was alerted to the fact that it occurs next to the current big slide, which, with great media attention and almost fame, when it begins, as it goes on, when it ends, he realizes that the problem with the slides, with the displacement of other technical structures, namely the bridge stations, is continuing. I asked several ANO movement officials, I won't tell their names what the truth is, and they knew about it. It wasn't Minister Tooka, I say. Here among you. So, ladies and gentlemen, I have a feeling there's some very strange game going on here. I'm sure it's a coincidence that after they knew I knew, about four or five days later, Minister Ťok called a press conference and admitted certain problems there. That's reality, that's the timeline of the story. The available documents available to you, which you have at your disposal, include the finding of the Supreme Audit Office, which was processed by our exkolega Mr. Karel Sehoř, who was also a member of the House for several parliamentary periods. I would strongly recommend it's a control conclusion from control action number 15/29, money for the construction of the D8 motorway. It's not just about the money, it's about the whole history of how the vision of this highway, if I can say visions, or the plan of this highway, dates back to 1960. How it was to be built in some 17-18 years, and nothing was actually observed. Anything you remember in the case of the D8 motorway has not been observed, and of course, you sometimes hear the Filipiks of Minister Babiš here about how we were unable to secure, realize, build those previous governments. I have to say, as far as the timeline is concerned, he's partly right about this. If he hadn't been in his direction and in his ensemble of the new D8 motorway - I'd just pop out here. Prime Minister Sobotka also mentioned here, both during the discussion on foreign policy, how to negotiate with Germany on the construction of new railway connections not only between Prague or Brno, Prague and Dresden, Prague and Nuremberg, so I warn you that Babišův's constant according to the most recent materials of the Ministry of Transport is that the building permit for the first piece, the first section of this construction, which is very much needed by this government in its resolution, is 2035. You hear me, 2035. I guess that's what Europe and the world will be asking us if we want to build a railroad here. [[12.50 hours]] But I'll go back to the original. I would quote just a few things to you here, because the whole investment through the Czech Central Mountains, and here I am saying that the minister wasn't at the beginning, he wasn't at the beginning, he's been at it for about two years or something, so I just have this right over here. If you look at the report, for example. on page 6 of this material: It follows from the documents and information submitted for inspection that the Road and Motorway Directorate, when preparing the construction, underestimated the complexity of the territory to which the construction goes. A little further: Neither was the proposed schedule of work related to the removal of the effects of the slides, which in June 2013 damaged the D8 motorway and the railway line near the village of Dobkovičky. At the end of the control of the Supreme Audit Office, i.e. more than two and a half years after the collapse, the first phase of the remedial work was not completed and the second stage work was only started. Only geodetic monitoring was provided in the wider territory of the Road and Motorway Directorate by the end of 2015. And now, Minister, it's on your watch. I will repeat the sentence again: By the end of 2015 from the slide in June, at the beginning of June 2013 until the end of 2015 only geodetic monitoring of the slide was provided. The Ministry of Transport only commissioned the analysis of the causes of the slide in February 2016. So please, we've reached the stage that the Department of Transport needs so many years to enter analysis. This is absolutely unbelievable. And now, take it that there were a number of other construction works going on there, removing the slides, but no one tried to enter an analysis of why the slide had happened. The next paragraph: ŘSD also had doubts in the procurement of additional construction works in the total volume of CZK 32.4 million. Further: In the case of a public contract for additional works in the total volume of CZK 313,6 million, it was not possible to evaluate clearly the compliance with the conditions laid down in the legislation from the documents submitted for inspection, for another five public contracts in the total volume of CZK 3,164 million, it was not possible to verify the actual content or extent of their performance. This is intersecting in non-compliance with the Public Procurement Act, recently being interlaced with the entire material, and it has a government that has called so much that it will be different that it will do everything transparently in accordance with the law. I have already repeated, I will specify: The basic concept of the construction of the D8 motorway was approved in 1963, the construction costs of the section 0805 and 0807, i.e. approximately from Lovosic on the state border with the Federal Republic of Germany, it exceeds 30 overall, and I think there is still an optimistic estimate of 38 billion CZK, which is roughly three and a half times the amount considered in 1993 and almost twice the amount considered in 2003. The increase in costs was mainly justified by changes in the VAT rate and price valorisation. The Ministry of Transport did not take any closer account of the specific causes and consequences of the increase in costs. I'm drifting further because of the time stress. Page 11: In the documents relating to the preparation of the construction or in the procurement documents of the public works contract in section 0805, this is the Czech Central Mountains, the issue of measures responding to the route lines of the motorway has not been dealt with separately. It follows from the written statement of the technical supervision of the investor that no such special measures were incorporated into the project documentation for the award of the construction because the documentation available to the designer was evaluated as stabilised. If I translate it into an understandable language, geologists, people living there, everyone saw with their own eyes that it was a clearly sliding territory, ŘSD into the procurement documents did not make this remark or this warning to the contractor of the building, so in other words, everything that happens there today will be true. That's my interpretation of the fact. Come in. The documents submitted for inspection show that the existence of problematic geological conditions in the motorway route was known in the preparation of construction of section D8 and dealt with several documents that were available to the Road and Motorway Directorate. One of them states, for example, that the construction of section 0805 involves a total of 11 slides registered in the register of geofund led by the Czech Geological Service, two of which were managed as stabilized and nine of them were potential, i.e. Unstabilized. So I think that maybe more officials from the Ministry of Transport and from the ŘSD should come here around the corner, to Klárov, to the Czech Geological Service. Next, one of the other paragraphs. The new deadlines for the completion of the construction, the deadlines for the transfer of the previously untransmitted construction sites to the contractor and the deadlines for the completion of the construction were not specified by any of the amendments to the contract for the work. The deadline for the operation of section 0805 was not the work contract at the time of the inspection, which is January 2016, binding. So there it just turned into anarchy that wasn't even covered by an amendment to the contract by January 2016 that would somehow verify what was going on there. And by the way, I don't think it's just project-related, but it's also contractual, what's being done there or what desperate steps are being taken there today. During the construction carried out under the work contract of September 2007 there were a number of changes in the subject matter of its implementation, i.e. changes during construction, etc. etc. And, of course, it ended with the fact that the last management of the Executive Committee of the Fund had to exclude this event from funding European money. Unfortunately, the analysis that I requested from the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure's supervisory authorities, which were supposed to capture everything, was no longer completed, to map everything, who was responsible for what, who was responsible for the missing documentation, for the lost or unfound minutes of the negotiations, who signed the contracts, what and how it was done. I could quote here how the government reacted to the slide that occurred in June 2013, it was resolution number 640/2013, where it ordered the Minister of Transport to carry out a geotechnical survey of the area at risk, to complete the monitoring system into the area, to propose remediation variants, to process the project of the selected remediation variant, etc. etc. Next. In the wider circle of the D8 motorway slide, and here it is, that there are actually mentioned more or less three kilometers of downhill area at that time, and I ask the Minister if there is already talk of an endangered area of four kilometers, if that is true, so that there should be a detailed geological, engineering-geological and geotechnical survey, complementing the monitoring system, designing options of security and implementation of stabilisation measures and monitoring, processing analysis of the causes of the slides including how it was taken into account during the construction that this is an area of historically known occurrence. [[13.00 hours]] So the government then gave the award, unfortunately it didn't give a deadline to each point, so the ŘSD interpreted it so that the work hasty little valid, and what doesn't rush, doesn't run away. So, once again, it has been committed for two years only by geotechnical monitoring, i.e. If the slide continues, at what speed, if there are new facts, but the analysis of the causes was not. I could continue with the sad reading of how the money was moving, how it was exhausted - eating the reserve items as the law was exceeded, because they add up more work and less work etc. etc. Today, we also learned from the media, which has not been interested in this for quite a long time - at last some went to the scene and interviewed local residents... And it's already said that information isn't provided to them. The mayors of the affected or surrounding municipalities shall be responsible only after official information is requested via the data box. So there's something going on in huge volumes, and no one knows from the surrounding communities, the surrounding residents, or the leaders of the government... Instead of inviting them, not only to them, but to the public, you're acting like Rus with Chernobyl. Ladies and gentlemen, what I've learned from people who, of course, don't want to sign and do the construction work there... Minister Took, I warn you, your predecessor in an emergency meeting was also very funny. Mr. Babiš sat here, unlike today, with Mr. Sobotka, and they didn't say a word, and two months later, Minister Prachař quit. [[Yes, it's a dissenting statement about threats.]] I'm not threatening you, because, of course, that's Mr. Sobotka's decision, if he wants to change the government now, I think the conclusion should be more or less... And if it makes you laugh and I make you laugh... I don't think I'm laughing at the billions that have already cost extra, and that will still cost because of your behavior. And I think when you promised people truth and fair treatment, you start running it. Thank you. The term cracked bridge support is used in this information. Problematic is the cracked support of a bridge with a high ground hopper. Supposedly, there was - and I would like an answer here because we don't have official, whether it's still in this territory, it's a construction 210 or a building file, an object, it's a stacade, whether it's still related to the quarry, or it's next to a piece further. Problematic is the cracked support of a bridge with a high ground hopper. Supposedly there were minor movements already historically after the implementation of the body of the hopper, which acts as a difficulty of the territory. It was true that the territory was long-term affected by a slow creep movement in the southeast direction, i.e. on the slope to the Elbe. - So it's going to the Elbe. - The rate of these movements has long changed in the order of units of tenths of a millimeter per unit of months with fluctuations in times of major rainfall. Drilling survey in the area has demonstrated fossil washed surfaces in layers of chalk slides at depths of 15 meters or more below the surface. If you did a timely analysis of the causes and a proper geological survey at least after the mess, then maybe what you're doing there today is just another waste of money and delaying other forced giant bailouts that will cost a lot of money. And we're talking hundreds of millions or billions, I can't guess because you're hiding the truth. Underwater subsidies are usually recorded in this environment after these predisposed shear surfaces. On some wells was documented the height of the discharge level of this chalky waterworks up to 10 meters. The proportions in the territory are complex and the geological structure is such that in some cases the nearby neighboring wells respond to the drainage that is being carried out there today in a very different way. This means that there is a great variety of how the territory will behave literally after a few meters or ten meters. I could go on and on. I'll quote you here. Well, anyway, I'm gonna quit when you're laughing, and I'm gonna ask you a few questions. One. Are you willing to publish and when and where to give all Members, first and foremost, written information about the actual situation on the staged section of the D8 motorway at the next meeting? Secondly, I quite openly urge you to publish to the public and Members the full text of all the opinions and reports that have been submitted and processed either by the investor of the event or by the Ministry of Transport. For further information on what territory, the extent to which other slides are at risk, the amount of remediation of these territories, the kilometers, the meters, hundreds of meters. To tell you where all the missing documentation is, who is the project manager for the investor and has been in the past since the start of construction or preparation, who conducts engineering or technical supervision of the investor there. Who drew the project, who is the designer of this construction. To highlight all these things. And what measures you will take. The SAO report says very often - it was neglected, it was neglected, it was neglected. I can't imagine nobody getting hurt here, billions flying when it says it was neglected, neglected, neglected. And for the next, I ask you to provide written binding information on what measures you're taking today, how much money it costs, who's doing it and who's proposing it. I'd like to know. And what responsibility will be if it doesn't work? Really building such a work on chance and waiting for something to stop seems very weird to me. So please, you're laughing, okay. So please come explain yourself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-052-01-000-000.u3	Thank you. Now President Kováčik has the floor with priority rights, then Minister Ťok and then there is the application by President Černoch. And please, before I give the floor to the President, I will apologise to Mr Petr Adam from 12.30 until the end of the day, Vice-President Vojtěch Filip from 13.00 pm, Mrs Pecková from 12.00 pm for reasons of work, Mrs Berdychová from the whole day for personal reasons and Mr Tejc from 12.30 for reasons of work. So many apologies, and now President Kováčik has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-052-01-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ma'am and gentlemen, I promise that what the previous speaker was longer in his speech will be shorter in my speech so that we can get some results. And unlike the previous emergency meeting here, I announce that the KSČM MP has decided to support the draft agenda for this meeting. We want to talk about both the points proposed in the programme, both the electronic record of sales and the situation around the D8 motorway. I presume that the KSČM club will not support the postponement of the effectiveness of the electronic record of sales, although we do have, and we have shown them when discussing this topic here in the House, some doubts as to how well it will work, how high the yield for the state budget will be, how much it is necessary for the very small businessmen to be affected by this phenomenon as well. [[13.10 hours]] The point is, however, that this is one of the possible effective means of improving tax collection. And that convinces us that let's go, run the system, maybe as we march away from his imperfections, which will definitely occur, the system is very extensive, and it's possible that there will be some problematic points, problematic places. I'd just like to put in a good word for the people who are going to get hit, the possible error of the system, so that they don't get penalized right away. That the Ministry of Finance, eventually institutions subordinate to the Ministry or cooperating with the Ministry to assess the matter very benevolently for the beginning. I would also ask that there be no benevolence where the system would want to go around in any way. One hears that already there are programs available as to how to bypass the system so that they so called. The wolf ate and the goat remained whole. And I think that for that time, the effort, the energy, and the expectations that the whole system has been building up would be a very thin result. It would be lost, or further weaken confidence in institutions, trust in the state, confidence that the funds that the state is collecting are able to collect in sufficient amount and return them back to the system, whether social, whether health, whether school, whether for all the expenditures for which citizens hold the state. This is the first thing, so to make no mistake, because the mistake, of course, in interpreting the press conference, which our guarantor of this point was present in a certain way, the disinterpretation cost a little effort to make amends. In contrast to that second point, we will very much want to know together with many of you history, history also guilt, and also what will be, how will be corrected by the situation that maybe by the Ministry's misconduct, perhaps by the error of the control role, which must have been applied by someone in designing, during the construction process, caused D8 not only to be the longest-built way possible in Europe, certainly in the Czech Republic, perhaps around the world. But also for one kilometer by far the most expensive. I know there are complex geological conditions, but roads, railroads or other transport roads are being built in far more complex conditions, full of tunnels, full of bridges, in high-rise conditions. Now that we have the hot topic of our relations with China, I must remind you that the railroad to Tibet certainly didn't cost so much, and this is also being built on permafrost and in high mountain conditions, it certainly didn't cost as much as it might cost the D8 motorway precisely because something was neglected. So we're going to want to present the report, not just the historical part, but also the part that names the guilt, names the responsibility, determines the particular responsibility, and also tells what to do with the situation. Because the highway, communications are quite problematic from a security point of view. And I would like to see in my lifetime that we will be able to ride safely and without fear after this communication. So the KSČM MP will support the programme of this 52nd meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-052-01-000-000.u5	Thank you and please the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-052-01-000-000.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not abuse the right to a long speech. I just want to respond to a few things that have fallen. Firstly, I would like to say very clearly for myself that my smile, which I had, was in no way a mockery to Mr Laudát, by your means, Mr President. I just couldn't help reacting a little in this way to the words that were said here. Just say that we don't inform anyone, say our assessment of this highway to focus or base on what the residents, who are looking at the highway from 500 meters or from a kilometer, seem to me a little smiling from the expert I see in you, Mr. Ambassador. And I have a feeling you've made a slight use of the opposition note here. Just to start with, there's one thing I'd like to say. I welcome someone to deal with the D8 motorway, mostly history. Because the report you quoted, and the things you said happened under past governments. Someone put this place through, somebody put it through in this territory, someone who did the contracts, and my job is to finish those contracts and make an investment that was founded in the past, to drive on this highway and drive on it safely. At the same time, I would very much like to reject the fact that the Ministry of Transport is hiding something or publishing things only after it has learned that it is aware of it. We're just about the information at the moment when it was relevant, confirmed, and needed to tell the public, talked. All the documents we submit are available. I would like to say that most of the things that have been said here could be described as bordering on the creation of an alarm report, because the way in which you describe the work of an investor, in this case the Road and Motorway Directorate or the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, is simply not true. They're organizations that work professionally. And embellishing them by doing something there, and saying that the whole bridge is falling, it's just untrue. I have a very long speech to make, I can read it for maybe an hour. But I don't think this is a priority right before the meeting. If the agenda is approved, I'll be able to perform with him here. If not, I offer everyone and everyone gets all the information. Blaming today's Department of Transport for hiding something, or the Road and Motorway Directorate, and for not giving these things or not wanting to make them available, it's just not true. The truth is one, that in the framework of measures that MD or rather ŘSD does to ensure safe operation and to stabilise the territory, which was known from the beginning that it was not stable, so the measures are quite clear. That these measures in the area of Prackovická estaka caused the movement of the embankment, that is true, we have informed about this. Paradoxically, the movement isn't going down, it's going up against the slope. This is due to the fact that we are doing drainage gravel walls that cause the slope to sit and change actually the sliding surface on which the slope can slide. So we're here working with all the relevant experts, which is the Czech Geological Service, and it's the Institute of Rock Mechanics of the Academy of Sciences. The design organizations that designed it are working on it, in this case it is a Pragoprojekt. And if you really look back, what you're quoting here from the SAO report, it checked the highway between 2007 and 2013. This is before this government and it is at a time when the TOP 09 also participated in the government and bears its political responsibility for how it is... or what is described there. So I feel that we are on the air seeing that the opposition MEPs today want to propose that public debate be held about how they did not carry out control at a time when they were actually in power. [[13.20 hours]] For me, that's it. I really want to guarantee to all Members of this House, but also to all citizens of this Republic that what is happening on the D8 motorway is not partisan. It's a normal activity in a territory like this. The self-administration is very regularly informed, a special commission meets every 14 days, where representatives of the public administration of the Ústecký Region and the ministries, where the situation on the D8 motorway is regularly discussed. Above all, I would like to assure citizens that we are doing everything we can to keep the promised deadline before the end of this year's launch of the D8 motorway. And I am convinced that it will be observed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-052-01-000-000.u7	Mr. Black, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-052-01-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. I would like to say that Dawn supports this meeting, supports both points. We say yes to part of the EET, taxes must be paid, laws must be respected, the economy must be effective. But the EET only concerns a certain group of people. It's about businessmen trying to make a living the way they can. And for some of them, it could be liquidation. I add that real money disappears in other spheres, disappears in the distribution of money, in government subsidies, in public procurement. And that's where the government should intervene, that's where they should take steps so the money doesn't run. I also think that many question marks and questions still hang over the EET, which would be good and correct to answer not only the Chamber of Deputies, but mainly tradesmen and citizens of the Czech Republic. I mean the system. If the system is even ready. How much is it really gonna cost? Why is there an advertisement on TV, which is certainly not cheap, from taxpayers' money, and which acts more like an election campaign that has no real justification because it is a law and will apply? To point two - highway D8. A little while ago, Minister Took was here, he's still here, who, in part of his performance, said who was responsible and who could say something in what way. [[The speaker turns to the government bench, which is empty, then notices that Minister Tok is standing at the door]] I don't think this is about politics at all, and who's to blame, whether this party or this party. This is about security, because the D8 motorway, which has already experienced one cave in, is still running away. And if it opens at the time it is supposed to be opened, or when it should be opened, there is a chance of disaster, there is a risk that will then no longer be about who has ever said anything, but will bring or can bring disaster and sacrifices on their lives. When you look in the media and look at the headlines, you see: The highway that runs will be open. Static says I would never let my family on this highway. The cursed D8 - at Pracovic is an unstable foundation. There's about 140,000 links in the search engine. And I think it's just talking about everything. Geologist Vladimír Cajz from the Geophysical Institute of the Academy of Sciences, who worked on the construction reports since the mid-1990s, says, and I will quote: I expected problems to develop when the operation started there, not before completion. The surface highway was not decided by expert arguments. It was a political-economic decision to invest a lot of money and secure work for the future. Another expert says: In the long term, I draw attention to a risky area of 3 km, which ends with the back of the bridge of stacade. The backrest of the stacade has been on the move since it was built and measured. The foundation of the bridge does not meet the risk of the slide, because the pilots are short. That's just a few quotes from experts who I think should have the lead. Not politics, but experts should take the lead. So, summarized, after heavy rains, a slope fell off that swamped the built-up section of the highway. Unstable subsoil is slipping away. Billions were invested and disappeared. There's a risk of misfortune. Therefore, I appeal once again and ask you to approve this meeting so that all these questions, whether on the first point of the EET or on the D8 motorway, can be answered, and not only here, but also to the citizens, it has been made clear whether, for example, at the D8 motorway, everything is really okay, because it is waiting for this motorway. The worst thing would be if there were more slides and more misfortunes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-052-01-000-000.u9	Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-052-01-000-000.u10	Have a hezký afternoon this time. Last time I spoke in the morning. As we run out of time... I have to remember one of my political mentors when I was a young politician when I started out at municipal level, and by then he was a politician who had experience in national politics, and he said to me, "Listen carefully to the politicians who say in the House, don't listen to the first sentence, as they say they're for, listen to the second one, which follows the word "but." And he was right. I listened to Minister Took, who is very helpful to give us detailed information. But - he's not going to abuse priority rights and save it for the debate. That's a sentence you can agree with. I'm not criticizing her. But at the same time, he knows very well that there will be no debate. He's not going to vote. I know. But his party colleagues... Ask, Minister, they will not vote in favour of the agenda for this meeting. So I agree with you, the sentence. But you knew very well. You didn't really want to tell us anything. Otherwise, you had that opportunity, and you could still talk at this point and tell us the details. And for me, I'm not even gonna talk to D8. I didn't even want to speak with criticism, because the Minister is right that the problem is at the time of the design of the route. You have to admit that. Now I don't know which government it was, how old it was. I really don't know. I was more interested in information, not only if it's December 20th or January 10th, it's just political and it's not really important, it's just that it's really safe, and I'm saying it without the critical thorn. But I volunteered mostly to address the first proposed point in this meeting, which will not be discussed either. We all know that. And before I repeat some of the arguments that led us to consider this project wrong, I want to show how Bohuslav Sobotka's government follows, virtually. fails to comply with its own resolutions, its own approaches and at the same time, as it does not, virtually. how it circumvents the laws of the Czech Republic. One. I'm sorry, because to quote the exact resolutions and dates, I have some helper here to read it from. [[It's showing a mobile device.]] So more than a year ago, on 2 November last year, the government approved its resolution No. 889 to further develop ICT public administration services. I think that's good. In this resolution, the Ministry of the Interior, I would say as a guarantor of the development of information systems of public administration, through the department of the main architect eGovernment, projects worth over CZK 6 million. At the age of five, it's 30 million crowns. And so far, the Ministry of the Interior has not issued any opinion on the EET project, and without a positive opinion under this resolution, the government must not invest any money. And how did that proceed? In March 2016, this means in accordance with this resolution, he received the Department of Main Architect eGovernment of the Ministry of the Interior...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-052-01-000-000.u11	I'll ask the House for peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-052-01-000-000.u12	I think this is important because we are talking about how Sobotkův's government is following its own resolution. We are not talking about opposition proposals. On March 2, this department of chief architect eGovernment at the Ministry of the Interior received exactly according to the resolution the request of the Ministry of Finance to assess the project Adis - integration of EET and tax system. The request was then supplemented three weeks later, 23 March, on request and it explicitly states that the submitted project only addresses internal financial management processes and does not address the transaction part of the receipt processing. The day after that, that means the main architect's department didn't delay it, gave a positive opinion, subject to the fact that it was not part of the transaction part, and sent it to the Ministry of the Interior. So far, so good. On the eighth of April, the Ministry of Finance was asked to clarify when the request for the EET itself would be made - more than six months ago. At this request, it was not lost anywhere, the Ministry of Finance replied on May 5. It took them more than a month, or about a month, to respond - not one day, as eGovernment, which gave a favourable opinion - knowing that the request for an assessment of the EET project itself would be delivered by the end of May. Today, dear children, it is November, and an opinion on the EET project has not yet been issued. Why? Because the Treasury hasn't sent this project to assess yet. At the same time we see the commercial, the one on TV, we hear it on the radio, the one in the media, how the EET project starts in 20 days, 19 days - it's the 11th. Or 20-- depending on how we count it. How is it possible that the Ministry of Finance is acting contrary to the resolution of its own government? That would be pointing fingers from the Ministry of Finance to the ministries that manage coalition partners, how come you're doing a project here for seven million in ICT? How is it that you are in violation of this resolution? How did you spend the $7 million? Ask your colleagues how it is possible that the Ministry of Finance invests money without consent and contrary to the Czech Government's resolution. Either they're aware that the project isn't well prepared, and they're afraid to defend it in front of experts from the Ministry of the Interior who have it in gesture. That's the first possible explanation. The second explanation is that the left hand does not know what the right hand is doing, and vice versa, because no one is dealing with it. And the third is that they don't give a damn that they don't care about some government resolution, because we're the finances, and we're the only ones who can do whatever we want. Choose for yourself which answer is more likely. We of the opposition really do not know. You might find out. I wanted to ask the Minister of Finance which answer is true and why his office did not request consent to this project. Notice that I'm not even talking about whether or not this project is meant to be. That's another thing. The law applies, the government's resolution pays and the finances do what they want. Unfortunately, the Minister of Finance is not here. I heard this morning that he was excused for personal reasons. It can be understood, it can happen to anyone. So, at the end of my speech, I'm going to ask for a formal suspension of this meeting in the presence of the Minister of Finance, because I think it's fair for him to be able to explain these doubts and explain why. It is not the only doubt about the process that is going on, and I think it was also discussed by colleagues and colleagues on the Audit Committee, and that is the way the state enterprise of the Shared Services Centre was created, if I say so correctly. This company was obviously in conflict with the legislation in force. And even there's a lot of money coming into the company from the state budget. For all of us, I remind you that one of the former members of one of the former governments was unjustly, in my view unfairly and incorrectly, condemned, even to unconditional imprisonment before the appeal court annulled him, in my opinion, very rightly, for setting up a state enterprise - in the form of a limited liability company - contrary to the regulations in force at the time, and yet everyone knew in the court that there was not a single crown left in the state budget. So there was only an act of creation and there was no money going there, yet in the first instance so senselessly high and in my opinion unfair punishment. And luckily, our justice system has worked, and in my opinion, it has been properly liberated. However, for this former policy, it was a big problem in his political career, let's be frank. This will slow you down for months and years, and often it is the end of your political career. And I don't know if he wanted to or didn't want to continue, but that's irrelevant. It's often argued by the Treasury that they'll do it on the inside with the NAKIT. But that's not true. The truth is that the rules and the law have changed in our opinion, but that is a matter of discussion and interpretation. I think it was loaded by a colleague of Stupčuk. We protested at the time, but most accepted it, passed through the House, passed through the Senate, signed by the President of the Republic, published it in the Collection of Laws, so actually similar or identical procedure, but at another time it is legislatively correct because legislation has already been changed. I think it's also because they noticed inside that they didn't do it well in finance, and they didn't want to expose themselves to the same problem. So it's a different story and we can't accept the answer: not just us, but also colleagues from another ministry did the same thing. They went the same way, but they already applied other laws, virtually. other wording of the State Enterprise Act. Of course, the fundamental problem is that this left-wing government is setting up new and new state-owned enterprises. It should be said that he then implements these not very good ideas in practice. But here again, we see the Ministry of Finance's approach, which ignores valid legislation. And according to colleagues who were on the Audit Committee, the Minister of Finance defended himself there by having a government resolution that commissioned him to set up such a business. That's right. And I think the right procedure should have been that he had this material, this resolution, to submit to his office and the office should have informed the Minister of Finance that he was to inform the government as a whole that without amending legislation this procedure was not possible. So there is no shared responsibility for all the members of the government who voted in favour because it is not the duty of the members of the government to know the legislation in detail and to know whether the project can be implemented. The government has shown a clear will to do this project, to set up a state enterprise - I say, I consider it a mistake, but I respect the government's opinion - and finance as a resort should say be careful, be careful that we can do this, you must first change legislation. If that were the case, we'd only be having a political debate, whether it's a good thing or a bad thing. We're not having a political debate here. Here we are talking about the fact that finance in one case is circumventing the law in force and in the other case it is bypassing the resolution of its own government. This is no longer a joke, and we will see what further developments will be in the review committee. [[13.40 hours]] And it's absurd to argue that either the chairman or members of the Supervisory Committee are sitting on that finance minister. They're on him, poor guy. He's being interrogated now. It's an outrage they dare. That must be rejected. The governments and ministers are filing accounts to the House and committees. And who doesn't like it shouldn't be a minister! It's that simple. Nobody's forcing anyone to remain a member of the government. So much for legislative problems in the creation of a state enterprise and in circumventing it. This means the EET project, which will be launched in 20 days, is done by an undertaking which was set up in breach of the applicable legislation. A project is being implemented that has not been approved as it should have been under the Sobotkův Government's resolution. This is no prelude to a 20-year ago resolution where no one remembers who was Prime Minister anymore, someone inherited him, and now the evil opposition has brought him out and says watch out, here's a 20-year-old resolution and you've broken it, or you haven't respected it. Let's go back to the EET itself. We have long been declaring, and we have not changed anything about that goal, that when we participate in the government, we will abolish the EET as an inefficient and unnecessary project. At the same time, we are political realists and we know that this is not possible during this parliamentary term. That's why we have no problem...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-052-01-000-000.u13	I'll ask my colleague not to disturb you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-052-01-000-000.u14	There's plenty of space, really, and it's soundproof from the hall. děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I'll do it again. Our goal is, when we are with the government, to abolish this senseless and useless project. We are aware of political reality. It is clear to us that this is not possible in this parliamentary term. That is why we have no problem supporting the parliamentary initiative and the proposal that postpones efficiency by two years, among other things, which means following the next House elections. If we have the right numbers at our disposal, and I admit that it may not be accurate because we are not in executives, about 30 percent of entrepreneurs have only acquired EET equipment at the beginning of this week. Thirty percent. But tens of millions are already running smiling commercials, what we will get from EET revenues. At the same time, up to a fifth of entrepreneurs think about it - I point out and stress the word thinking, that does not mean that they will - that they will not even get it and end their business. Besides, the law is inconspicuous, unclear, sometimes absurd. In my first appearance at the EET, it was a long time ago that I don't even remember it, I am in favour of entertaining you a little and attracting your attention so that you don't just mechanically raise your hands here, especially you government MPs on two aspects. I called one "The zvonokos." For unknown reasons public toilets are excluded from the EET. And the second example I drew attention to more than a year ago was the tip question, when we - and unfortunately we are part of it, because people very often don't know who votes for it and who doesn't, we know it, and after a year we don't even remember it - so we wisely put it into the law that when the whole tip comes to the owner or operator, it's free of EET. And when employees share it, it's not an EET. Well, that's great. That's not gonna be enough for the six hundred new Treasury officials. I think every night a guy from the Financial Administration should be sitting in every restaurant. That's where they should report how much tips are for that day and who's gonna share it. And on the basis of this consultation and registration, preferably notarized, the EET receipt should either be issued when it remains the entire owner or operator. Or say, here's the paper, the receipt, there doesn't have to be an EET. I was present. Otherwise, I don't know how it's gonna cost to enforce this absurdity. I read in the press a few weeks ago that the EET system suppliers had equipped the system so-called. A magic button, that's what the media called it, and maybe even marketing called it a supplier that means without an EET. And the press asked me if it was legal. It's legal. You've approved it so badly, in such a chaotic state, there's no other way. Simple case. If I eat pizza inside, now I don't know whether it's from a box or a plate, there must be an EET receipt. But if I take my pizza in a box, the EET receipt doesn't have to do it. What's the valet supposed to do? They have to ask, "Will you eat it here or outside?" And then he either uses the magic button or he doesn't. As you have given that it applies only to some goods and for some not, so again must use the magic button without EET. The whole thing feels like these poor operators are breaking the law because there's a button like that. Unfortunately, it has to be there because you approved it on a patella like this. I was particularly entertained by the chat with the head of the Financial Administration when he came to discuss with readers as part of his education. Now I don't know, he gave an interview to a magazine. And the question was, and the logical question: I only pay with a card, no cash runs there, so why do I have to use EET? I don't think so. [[A note from the diaper.]] I think the MP who yells at me is deeply mistaken and I recommend to him exactly the same as I recommended to the Chief of Financial Administration. Read the bill you voted for. He has to! He has to. You voted for the fact that if there isn't a koruna of cash in the fight against cash payments, there must be an EET in an establishment where cash is never paid. It's like credit card payments could be anonymous. Anyone who's in business knows they have to report an account number to the IRS to collect money from the business. One, two, three. Depends on how many banks he uses. If he doesn't, he's going to face sanctions and problems. So the Financial Administration, on the one hand, knows which accounts are used for business. At the same time, the transaction is at least on the bank's side recorded by the person paying the card. How did the Chief of Financial Administration skate out of it? Simple as that. I didn't authorize the interview, so you're right, EET has to be used, even if it's only paid with a card. It's the press' fault. No, dear colleagues and dear colleagues, this is a mistake for you who voted in favour of the bill! There are weeks and months of bills that are headed in the right direction. They say: Let us free ourselves from the EET, which, according to the Minister's objectives, want to focus on VAT evasion. Let's free the VAT guys. Try to explain to me how a non-tax payer can cheat on VAT. Try to think about it, think about the question, and try to figure out at least you who have the priority right to explain it to us. And these proposals are here. And you don't even have the courage to discuss them or reject them, which is a normal case, a proposal, if most of them are against, the law doesn't pass. If I hear a weak argument that this also applies to income tax, it is indeed weak. And look in your own explanatory report, look at estimates of additional VAT and income tax where there is a larger proportion. You'll know. Or are you going to say that the little ones who have a one-million-dollar turnover and aren't VAT payers are the cheaters? You're telling us again? Well, that's what you said at the beginning, and then you started backing down a little bit. At the same time, the Financial Administration methodically and systematically makes it impossible to register voluntarily for VAT. For example, for those with less turnover than one million VAT. Ask - and these are tens, hundreds of cases throughout the Republic that the Financial Administration has been handling this for months and months. He wants more and more data. They don't have the law for it. They want business contracts, a list of suppliers, orders. I don't know how much and the size of the shoes of the person asking to be voluntarily paid VAT. So it's all part of it. [[13.50 hours]] KDU colleagues who kind of want to stick around and pretend it's not theirs, I think they also have proposals for an EET amendment. Suddenly, they said that some of the opposition's opinions were not so bad, and they wrote their own novel. They used a favorite colleague, a colleague here from YES, that there are such opposition in the government that the government approved it, but we have a slightly different opinion. So, nice colleagues and colleagues from KDU, really late. See for yourself how you were able to enforce your own parliamentary bill for discussion. You're not capable of it, or -- and that's more likely -- you didn't even fight for it. You haven't even proposed your point, the amendment to the EET Act. Not once! So it was just a gesture to the voters, met, but you didn't fight for it at all. We're calling an emergency meeting, we're proposing a hearing. And you legitimately deny it. That's your decision. But you're in the gang, you didn't get out of the party. You can pretend you do, but you can't. We come up with two... with two, well... with two - we propose two things, I help myself. [[Fun in the hall.]] The first thing we proposed this week was a separate bill, amendments on excise duty to beer, because I found out that in the pre-last term Fischerův's government adopted so-called. On the other hand, Janotův's package, which on the one hand increased taxes, was to reduce expenditure. That was a government proposal. He landed in the House, I would say quite unexpectedly, that is, taxes have increased, expenses have not been cut. And then it was said from these places by the then government officials that it was for a year, to a maximum of two. Seven years have passed. So we tried to partially correct that promise when the administrative government gave it, and we proposed a reduction in excise duty and a return before 2010 to the full level only for the smallest mini-breweries, regional, local, and for the others too. This will fall on everyone, both breweries and restaurants. And you have to say, remember, in restaurants where they don't cook, and now we're talking about rural and rural restaurants, and I live in a village, these restaurants turn from beer to 60 percent. And there is no distinction as to whether anyone is a payer or a non-VAT payer. That has an impact and help, a little help, on everyone. The second thing that could, more than in the first case, compensate for additional costs and reduce the percentage of 20 percent of those thinking about quitting their business is that, in the context of the discussion of the government tax package - we are waiting for a second and third reading meeting in December - we will propose two things. The first proposal aims to support the economy as a whole, we propose a reduction in the basic rate from 21 to 19 percent, and a return to two rates, namely 10 percent. This is a systemic measure that will help all VAT payers regardless of their business and which will help all customers of these entrepreneurs, employers, service providers or manufacturers. And if it doesn't pass, we're going to propose a minimalist thing, a specific help to those who hit the first wave of EET, and that's converting food services to the lowest rate of 10 percent, because there's an area where there's the most work, the greatest added value for those who provide it, and that could really be a significant compensation for additional costs. We'll vote on that. You will not avoid this vote as today, that you will not approve of the programme today, and this meeting is ready, but because it is a government proposal and it will be amendments, each of you will be put to the vote on these amendments. And I'm telling you in advance to think about it and not to look at it - that's what the opposition is suggesting, that's what the citizens' democrats are suggesting, so we're automatically against it, and we're trying to think about it. Because, and that's it, I can already hear the reasons why it's not possible for economic reasons. It's not true. We have what it takes to cut taxes!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-052-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. Mr. Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-052-01-000-000.u16	[[He responds to the notes from the O.R.]] Thank you. You guys want to work till 9:00. Technically, I want to suggest some consensus that we leave this meeting open and actually deal with the proper meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-052-01-000-000.u17	So do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-052-01-000-000.u18	Abort this meeting until what date? When does it start?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-052-01-000-000.u19	Abort to... So, President Stanjura, as I understand it right now, proposed in his speech a procedural proposal to interrupt this meeting in the presence of the Minister of Finance. If you insist, it's a voteable proposal. Okay. [[That's bullshit, it's not a meeting!]] That is true, but I believe that the procedural proposal for a suspension of the meeting is a voteable one. Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-052-01-000-000.u20	It's a meeting. Take a look at the log. Mr President, if he was driving at that time, he said - I'm starting the 52nd meeting and voting will be the first vote on the minutes' verifiers. We don't have an approved agenda for this meeting, but the meeting is running, which is why it can be interrupted. Believe me, I'm pretty sure of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-052-01-000-000.u21	I share this view, which is why I say that this proposal is voteable. We will therefore decide by the vote that I have taken, and I ask who agrees to interrupt this meeting until the Minister of Finance is present. Who opposes this proposal? It's vote number 2, registered 140, for 52, against 58. The motion was not accepted. Mr. Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-052-01-000-000.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So I will continue to justify this meeting. I just want to say that I find it absolutely unbelievable, and unfortunately, in the YES movement, it's the rule, every time the official material comes out, it means the control office, here you've heard that there was no control, it was about somewhere in 2015 or 2014, that it ended. For God's sake, it's already written on that shirt that - I quote literally - "the control period was 2009 to 2016. " That's why I also quoted here that the analysis of the causes of the slide wasn't entered until February. But I really consider it unfair negotiations if you don't want to let the meeting go and the minister says that when the meeting is opened, he will justify everything. That's really unfair. So even the public didn't know - I just learned that the people who performed in the media this morning, in the Czech Radio or were recorded, so I guess they're liars, from the neighborhood, from the surrounding villages, the mayor, I don't know if dobkovička or who, is probably also a liar, because everyone communicates with her and knows everything. Citizens know why there are 33 cc's of soil from the stacade moving away from those embankments, that the original roadway had already been built there. We're not gonna know if we and the public or the public and we're gonna get the analysis, it's gonna be published. I find it very unfair. But you, Minister, had the chance to say it here, and that would be the end of the matter. I'm sorry, but this is just... [[14.00 hours]] So I would ask you very urgently to take the next meeting, which begins, I think, on November 29th, to actually vote for the D8 point. I don't know how to get you to stop acting like you're in the Soviet Union and keeping things from people they should know. The action is built out of taxpayers' money, if you don't mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-11-ps2013-052-01-000-000.u23	Thank you. I don't see another priority-right application. In that case, we will vote. We will vote on the entire proposal for the 52nd House meeting, as submitted in writing. I'll read the apologies. Mrs Maxová from 14 a.m. to the end of the day, Minister of Defence from 12.30 a.m. to the end of the day, Mr Fiedler from 13 a.m. to the end of the day. I'll check you all out, please, for a new registration. We will vote on the proposal for the 52nd meeting. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number three. It's registered 114, for 49, versus 61. The motion was not accepted. The draft agenda has not been approved. So I'm done with the 52nd meeting. Please, five minutes technical break. We'll continue the 50th meeting at 14.05.
