ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-009-013.u1	13. Government bill on liability for and management of offences 555/ - second reading This item, under the authority of the Government, will also be presented by the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-009-013.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, let me briefly remind you of the content of the Government's draft law on liability for and management of offences. At present, there is no general adjustment of the terms of liability of legal and business individuals for offences. The terms of liability of legal and entrepreneurial natural persons are scattered in about two hundred different laws, which are also dealt with inadequately, and only the decision-making practice of the courts fills the gaps in this area. This situation has been criticized for a long time. The principle of proper liability is to become a unified concept of offense, which replaces the legal concept of administrative offense. In accordance with the current situation, natural persons will be liable for offense on the basis of fault, legal and business natural persons regardless of fault with the possibility of absolving themselves of liability. [[A natural person?]] Furthermore, the draft law provides for a special sanction procedure before an administrative authority established by the Administrative Code of Support. The introduction of specific qualification requirements for authorised officials in infringement proceedings will also contribute to improving the quality of management of infringement proceedings. Furthermore, the draft law contains a new regulation of the limitation period, the expiry of which is the end of the liability for the offence. According to the proposal, the length of the limitation period shall be one or three years depending on the seriousness of the offence. The creation of a regular review of offences is also envisaged, which will help create an image of administrative punishment on individual sections of the public administration. The bill includes a number of other partial innovations that take into account modern trends in administrative punishment. For example, it regulates the settlement as a form of diversion consisting of an agreement between the accused and the injured or the administrative penalty by publication of the decision on the offence. One purpose of this administrative penalty is to inform the public about unfair commercial practices of legal or business individuals. The Constitutional Committee has tabled amendments to the proposal, with which I agree. In particular, provision is made for the possibility of imposing new restrictive measures by the administrative authority, consisting of the obligation of the perpetrator to commit an offence which shows, in particular, the signs of the use of violence in the family or partner relationship, to submit to an appropriate programme for the management of aggression or violent behaviour. Furthermore, it is possible that non-property damage caused by the offence should also be decided in the infringement proceedings, within the framework of the so-called "criminal offence'. Adhesive procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-009-013.u3	And I thank you, too, Minister. In the first reading, we ordered the proposal to be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee and the press was ordered by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The Committees' resolution was delivered as the House's press 555/1-4. I ask that the rapporteur of the Constitutional Committee and of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development take the floor at the same time, including Mr Lukáš Pleticha, and inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committees and of any possible amendments justified. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-009-013.u4	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues, and colleagues, this proposal was also discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee, which, as the Minister has already mentioned, adopted an amendment, with the essential part quoted here, and then 17 more minor amendments, which are more like legtechs. The Ministry had previously provided several consultation hours where it was possible to clarify the positions on this, so that the possibility of discussing and some clarification was given. The result of the constitutional committee hearing is sent to you in print 555/3. The Constitutional Committee recommends that the Chamber of Deputies approve the proposal. It also recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt amendments and additions to this proposal, as mentioned in this press, from 1 to 18, I will no longer repeat them, and further instructs the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, and further empowers me as rapporteur of the Committee to introduce you to this result here. He also addressed this proposal at his 39th meeting on 31 March, as well as the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, which did not accept any amendments and, on the contrary, recommends to the Chamber of Deputies that the House press discuss and approve in the submitted text. Furthermore, this committee authorised the Committee's rapporteur, me to introduce you to this, and instructed the Vice-President of the Committee to send the resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-009-013.u5	Thank you. I am opening up a general debate and asking who is applying for it. As I see no one, I end the general debate and ask for final words. The rapporteur? Mr. Secretary? It's not like that. I am initiating a detailed debate and asking who is reporting for a detailed debate. I'm registering Mr. Benda's application. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-009-013.u6	Mr Vice-President, Minister, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to sign up for the amendment under House document 4131, which I am presenting to this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-009-013.u7	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. I don't see anyone, I end up having a detailed debate and I ask for final words, if necessary. The Minister doesn't want to. The rapporteur - do you want the final word? It's not like that. Since no other proposal has been made, I am ending the second reading of this proposal. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
