ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-007-066.u1	66. Government bill amending Act No. 25/2008 Coll., on an integrated register of environmental pollution and an integrated system for fulfilling environmental reporting obligations and amending certain laws, as amended /German press 574/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Environment Minister Richard Brabec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-007-066.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, first of all, thank you for voting on that last item. I believe that this new point will be more concise, where the reason for the proposal for this amendment is the Government resolution of 31 May 2010, which took note of the material so called. ecoaudit, i.e. the material of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which dealt with measures to strengthen the competitiveness and development of business in the Czech Republic. One of the points of this eco-audit was also, say, the further functioning of the integrated register of environmental pollution. In particular, the proposed legislation provides for a significant reduction in the number of operators who have a registration obligation and, where appropriate, a reporting obligation in relation to the so-called an integrated pollution register, and thus to reduce administrative burdens as well as cost reductions. Above all, it is a reduction in the administrative burden on small and medium-sized enterprises. The proposed amendment concerns operators of establishments not covered by the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, and the reduction should affect about one third of current reporting agents, i.e. approximately 1700 establishments out of a total of 5000 and their savings could reach an amount of approximately 30 million. per year. The newly supplemented annex also contains an exhaustive list of activities that will be subject to the obligation to keep records and, where appropriate, to report on the IRZ. The proposed proposal constitutes a compromise solution based on the results of the deliberations of the relevant working group. The new definition of the scope of the compulsory entities beyond the scope of the Regulation should also specify more precisely which entities are subject to the obligations. The proposed draft law also includes several other amendments, in particular the cancellation of the obligation to authorise reports submitted through an integrated system for fulfilling reporting obligations, so-called. The ISPOP, and the proposed revocation of the authorization, also means a significant reduction in the administrative burden and costs associated with the agenda on both the reporting and the ISPO operator. The possibility of sending the power of attorney to represent the debtor through the data box of the Ministry of Finance is also abolished, thus limiting possible means of sending the power of attorney to the sending via the ISPOP. It can therefore be summed up that the proposed government bill brings a significant reduction in the administrative burden for business entities, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises and public authorities, while stressing that the proposed legislation does not reduce the positive contribution of the integrated pollution register to environmental protection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-007-066.u3	I also thank you, Minister, and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Martin Sedlář. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-007-066.u4	Hello, Mr President, representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues. The Minister for the Environment has mentioned here a government bill amending Act No. 25/2008 Coll., on an integrated register of environmental pollution and an integrated system for fulfilling environmental reporting obligations and amending certain laws, as amended. This proposal is led as House Press No. 574. Allow me, after a detailed report by the Minister, to recapitulate at least some points. The government proposal contains in particular points in order to reduce the number of reporting agents to the integrated register, precise definition of the scope of the data log, cancellation of today's technically nonsensical reporting authorization through the reporting obligation execution system and cancellation of the sending of the power of attorney via the data box. Furthermore, let me stress that the main impact of the proposal is the reduction in the administrative burden already mentioned here, both on the public side and on the business side, as well as the refinement of the records, including a more precise definition of the thresholds for the characteristics which have an impact on the environment. As the Minister has already mentioned, in May 2010, the Government took note of the Ministry of Industry and Trade's material called Measures to strengthen the competitiveness and development of business in the Czech Republic, eliminating unnecessary environmental policy requirements. The proposal is accompanied by approximately 13 pages of tables describing the activity and, in particular, the threshold for certain production capacities, for energy, metal production and processing, mineral processing, chemical industry, waste-related activities, waste water and remediation, paper and wood production and intensive animal production, and many others, such as food, computers, furniture, means of transport, etc. The Organizing Committee has proposed the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee, and I, as rapporteur for this press, join this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-007-066.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am opening up a general debate and asking who is applying for it. I don't see anyone. If that is the case, I am ending the general debate. I ask whether the appellant or rapporteur wants to take the final floor. It's not like that. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee. I ask if anyone proposes a commandment to another committee as a committee of guarantee. I'm registering a factual - virtually. Mr. Kudela, is that a request for an application? You don't want to propose another guarantee committee. Okay, thank you. So I'm asking if anyone else is suggesting another guarantee committee. It's not like that. We will take the vote. [[19.20 hours]] Who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee? Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this resolution, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 58. 155 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 137, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, and I am asking if anyone has a proposal on the commandment to the next committee or committees for discussion. I don't see anyone, in which case I'm done discussing this point. Thank you. I'm opening another point, and that's the point.
