ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u1	187. Government bill amending Act No. 95/2004 Coll., on conditions for obtaining and recognising professional qualifications and specialised qualifications for the pursuit of the medical profession of a doctor, dentist and pharmacist, as amended /German press 723/ - third reading I beg you - I'm sorry, Mr. Dolejš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u2	To the last vote, or to the last vote, purely for the tapestry. The spies have told me that I should have said yes in the crack of the vote to reject this proposal. Misguided doesn't work, it doesn't match my will as a voter, apparently a mistake somewhere between a button and a terminal device. Purely for the tape.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u3	Yes, it will be modified. I therefore ask that the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček and the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, Mr Kasal, take the position at the rapporteur's table. The amendments are in print 723/5, which was delivered on 26 September. The guarantee committee resolution was delivered as press 723/6. I will ask the Minister if he wishes to speak before the debate is opened. That's right. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal has been discussed several times in the Chamber of Deputies. Therefore, allow me only to emphasise once again that it aims, in particular, to introduce measures which will help stabilise the number of doctors in certain fields, ensure that certain disciplines are mutually accessible, extend the possibility of motivating further education and, last but not least, improve the alignment of education with the family life of doctors. First of all, I would like to say that I support the so-called a comprehensive amendment. A number of other amendments have been tabled to it as part of the second reading. I would like to ask you to support only those who can contribute to achieving these objectives in the vote. Such is, for example, the case. Mr Kasal's amendment, according to which the practice of promoting doctors in specialization education in the field of pediatrics will include an amendment that regulates revision activities such as the exercise of the profession of a doctor with professional competence, as well as an adjustment specifying the implementation of functional courses. I cannot identify with the proposal to maintain two fields of childcare, namely children's medicine and practical medicine for children and adolescents. The purpose of the amendment to the law is to create a common educational programme for the field of pediatrics. The current regulation of the division of education into two fields has no justification and makes it unreasonably difficult for the professional movement and employment of doctors in this area. At the same time, it does not meet the standard of education in the vast majority of European Union countries. Here I would like to stress that the institute registering health service providers for children and adolescents will be preserved. Therefore, nothing will change in the outpatient care system. Finally, it may be noted that most doctors currently working in the ambulances of practical physicians for children and adolescents have completed an earlier education system where only one paediatrician existed. These proposals, which I cannot support, include, above all, changes in the regulation enabling the Ministry of Health to entrust certain activities in the field of education to other bodies. On the basis of Mr Hovorka's amendment, only the Institute of Postgraduate Health Education could be entrusted with the pursuit of activities relating to specialisation education. This step would remove the possibility for the Ministry of Health to entrust the performance of activities in the future to a body other than that mentioned in this proposal. In short, if IPVZ had not carried out any of these activities, the Ministry would have had to carry out these activities itself, since the law would not have allowed any legal person other than IPVZ to be entrusted with this activity. At the same time, I cannot agree that, under a public contract, certain activities may be entrusted, in addition to the university or the professional chamber, to any other legal person not specifically specified, as stated in Mr Štětina's proposal and Mr Hovorka. Such an adjustment cannot be considered appropriate due to the type of activities provided. Moreover, both proposals radically narrow down the list of activities that could be transferred by a public contract. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, in view of the above proposal for a law in today's discussion, you will support a text that will benefit as much as possible from the exercise of the health profession and, therefore, the quality of health care provided. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u5	Thank you, Minister. And I'm opening up a debate. Before I give the floor to Mr Štětin, I would like to inform you that Mr Vondráček votes with card number 26. And now Mr Štětina has the floor and Mr Hovorka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u6	Hello, Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I'll start with the Minister's final words. I will also be happy if this law is approved in a version with minimum modifications approved by the Health Committee. And I'm convinced that's how it's gonna be. Because the approval of this law as one of the basic health laws will contribute to improving quality and, in particular, to the fact that doctors will not go abroad, partly. She's not just a matter of education, let's face it. But it's such an incantation that if this law is in the imagination of young doctors - and I'm certainly not a young doctor, it's obvious to me... But I think it's really good that the Department of Health is here with this law. And I think the law is good. And now a little bit about some things I dare disagree with the Minister. I do not want to create any conflict situation at all, so that there is any contradiction that if IPVZ is not approved, so that the law cannot be adopted. Of course, I also took the liberty of verifying in some way what legal persons can do, etc. I think that if we discuss with the Minister, we are about 50-50 right, and it is a question of what will be more reasonable at the moment. I think that we have developed a good system of doctor education, which has actually been established in the past. It is not about socialism, but it is about common sense. And IPVZ really worked especially organizationally. It is true that the founder was and would have to be the Ministry of Health and certainly the administration would have been higher. But I think there's some sort of management way to put it together. Otherwise, I think that all the amendments, especially my colleague Běhounek and his colleagues, are very sensible, complex. And I will vote as we have decided on the Health Committee, because this law has been discussed many times. And I will certainly not vote otherwise on the Health Committee or otherwise in the House. Only as the petitioner of the amendment that IPVZ should work and should be in the law will I allow myself to vote in favour of this amendment of ours. Another thing I would like to intercede for, and I spoke about it at the first speech when we started discussing this law, that I believe that the field of occupational medicine should be in the basic fields. For one simple reason. It's actually a combination of medicine preventive to medical prevention. This means that it could, or should even be, a basic field. But the Minister has promised me that if this amendment, which I have also tabled, but has not been adopted in the end, she has given it to my colleague Pastuchová, so I will support him because it has its logic and it has its need in particular. But the Minister told me that there is no problem that this field will become a specialization or a superstructure, and it will be in the form of a decree. So I think that's a very reasonable way to treat it. But it's a good thing we're discussing this here. Finally, let me actually agree that this law will be passed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u7	Thank you. Before Mr Hovorka comes forward, with priority rights, the President of the ODS Club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u8	Thank you for the floor. I am very special about the law in health care, I leave it to my colleagues, who are on the health committee. But today I will make an exception and I would like to draw your attention to one of Mr Hovorka's amendments to the proposal to preserve the field of practical medicine for children and adolescents. [[9.50 hours]] When the law was passed, the minister said that one of the objectives was to reduce the basics. And then when you look at the result of what the reduction looks like, it's de facto the only field that the reduction is supposed to be about. There's no reduction. If it went from 46 to 23, in half - but I'm not suggesting we understand each other - we could talk about a reduction. 2,000 doctors are involved in this field, which is a rather wide group. There are fields in which there are a much smaller number of doctors. But most important to me, and now it's a look not to those who work in the health sector, but to those who seek medical help, to doctors. The system works. And I'm asking if you asked your parents if they wanted such a change. Because as a proper conservative politician, when something works, I don't have to change it from a central level. I think it's a pretty simple position. And I'm going to ask my colleagues, especially doctors, because that's their domain, these laws, so they'll try to listen to the other side one day. These are patients and families of patients. Because it's no less important than the sight of doctors. To perceive the view of both sides. Having discussed with the doctors involved, I must say that their arguments have convinced me, and therefore, on the recommendation of Mr Svoboda, we will support the whole of our club's amendment. Since there is no real reduction, it is really only about this one field in which the rest of us, who are not doctors, have not experienced any greater problems than in other fields. Then we see no reason to change the condition that suits the parents, suits such a broad group of doctors. Therefore, I recommend that we stick to conservative value and conservative belief that when something works, I don't have to experiment and I don't have to try to change it with a proposal from above, in this case by amending the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u9	Thank you. Mr Běhounek's point of view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the government, with all due respect to President Stanjur - do you think that we are also asking patients how to educate surgeons, orthopedists and all other fields? Please, let us not succumb to the demagogy of a certain part of the people who claim that this will turn the care of children's patients away. It's not true!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u11	Mr Štětina, also a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u12	Thank you again for the floor. I'm glad my colleague Stanjura said it the way he said it, because for us, for the old doctors, the patient comes first, second, the health service provider, and then it's the rest. So I agree with him on that. And I disagree on one thing. Health is neither conservative nor liberal nor socialist. Health care doesn't matter, which must provide health services to everyone, regardless of whether he is poor or rich. So I believe, even though I am, and I confess to that, at first reading of this law voted for one pediatrician, this time, and surely my colleague, David Kasal, will not be angry with me, I will vote in favour of children's medicine for practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u13	Thank you. Mr Hovorka's proper application, Mr Kasal will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u14	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, the professional medical public with great expectations has adopted reports that a law has been prepared to restore the state of education before 2004 for a period when the system has worked quite well. I consulted this law with a gastroenterologist, a trainer who was disappointed that the law does not contain this essential, i.e. defining what a doctor can do at a certain level of education. What competence he'll have. Unfortunately, that is the key thing that this law does not contain. I would like to say that we can, however, move in a certain direction the evolution of this law if we decide to support my amendment G2, G3, which concerns IPVZ, anchoring the role of IPVZ into the system of doctor education. It should be said that the Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education has been operating here since 1953. Over a period of more than 70 years, he has demonstrated his ability to organise doctoral education. I think that even the Minister has certainly passed the education at IPVZ, and I do not understand why the Ministry is so opposed to IPVZ being directly incorporated into the law. And when this failed at the committee's meeting, when there were reservations that the institution could not be directly introduced into the bill, even though I think it is not possible that this is not a valid comment, I then read an amendment at second reading, which merely specifies and sets out the role of IPVZ in the inclusion of doctors in the fields and for testing. Thus, they are given the competence to include doctors in the fields and to test doctors. I think that the Ministry should welcome this proposal, because it would get an overview of how many really, in which fields we are tested by doctors. That is why I think that this amendment certainly deserves your support. These are amendments G2 and G3. If they were not adopted, then Mr Štětina's amendment, which is more extensive and corresponds to my original, which was tabled at the committee's meeting. And I would also like to touch on what Mr Stanjura said here, and that is actually an expectation that was said and said that this law will substantially limit the number of disciplines. Unfortunately, it is not so and the only field to be essentially reduced is the educational field of practical medicine for children and adolescents, so that it is to be merged with the field of pediatrics. I would like to say that, yes, there is really no abolition of the field. Only the education sector is abolished. But by merging, I mean that there will be a reduction in primary child care. And that's the consistent thing to say. That practical doctors for children and adolescents take care of children in the field and this system works very well during 12 years of existence. And I don't think there were any comments from parents or from the professional public about the failure of this system. If there was a will at the beginning of negotiations on this law to agree between the two fields, i.e. between the practical doctors for children and youth and between the Czech Paediatric Society, say part of joint education and then specialization in the field either towards children's medicine in hospitals or towards the performance of the practical doctor for children and youth in ambulances, so I think it is a pity that this agreement has not taken place. But unfortunately, as I've been informed, and as I've seen from the latest development of all the documents we're getting available, too deep trenches have been dug between these fields, and a very sharp hatchet has been dug up. I mean, I'm sure it's not good. [[Noise in the hall.]] [[10.00 hours]] If you decide, we can, of course, maintain this field of practical medicine for children and youth by supporting my G1a, G1b amendments. There's a lot of reasons. As I have already said, if this law does not disturb medical disciplines and only one rule is abolished, then it seems as if this law is being introduced for the reason that this one educational field can be abolished and practical medicine for children and youth has merged with the field of pediatrics. I don't think that's right anymore. If we say that there is one pediatrician everywhere in Europe, yes, there is one pediatrician, but it is necessary to see how primary care for children works in these countries, how old children are to be taken care of by practical doctors for children and adolescents. And there you will find that it is far from the age of 18, 19, as it is in the Czech Republic, but much less, and that there are very few doctors for a certain number of children in these countries. The Ministry of Health and the Czech Paediatric Society may expect the number of doctors in hospitals to increase by merging disciplines. I believe that this is not and will not be. If we look at the tables that we got to the budget and the Ministry of Health, we will find tables of residential places there and you can see how much was being educated in the residential places of practical doctors for children and adolescents and how many of these residential places used children's medicine, which means hospital doctors. For all these reasons and, above all, for the practical reason that the system that works in our primary care for children, that it is not good to interfere with it, I intercede for the support of my G1a and G1b amendments. And if these proposals did not pass, then for the support of Mr Svoboda's amendment under point F, because it is similar. Thank you for your attention and I believe that common sense will prevail.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u15	Thank you. Before I give the rapporteur the floor, I have four factual points here. First, Mr Běhounek, then Mrs Havlová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry to have to respond repeatedly in the same way. Please, let's not say we're interrupting the field. The disciplines are designed according to the need for the development of medicine. We are trying to change the way education has been criticized from all sides. The moment we try to do that, it's being criticized again. I just want to point out that pediatric care has been set up since the Pediatrics Faculty existed here. Most practitioners in the field are already these graduates and do not have the certificate of a practical doctor for children and adolescents. That's not until recently. And yet from our hospitals, those doctors who graduated from the General Medicine School or any other and then went into the field. Next, IPVZ business. Yes, it is meaningful, but there is no other institution appointed in that law, so I see no reason why the Ministry could not entrust IPVZ with this activity. But if that's the case, we have to name all the faculties and all the others. We want it to be cheap and effective, and we're going to change it now. I just don't think that's possible. And I repeat again at the end. Please don't mix the education and care system in our hospitals and in the field.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u17	Thank you. Mr. Plzák, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My previous speaker said almost everything I wanted to say. I wanted to give you a practical example. I don't know if Colleague Hovorka is in the health department. He said that the system we're going to create will reduce primary care for children and youth. On the contrary, it is the current system, my colleague, that limits the primary care system for children and adolescents, because today, when, unfortunately, a practical doctor retires for children or for God's sake, no one can represent him, because a doctor who works in a children's ward in a hospital simply cannot go to work there. So we're basically improving the system so the doctor at the hospital can say good, and I'll take the field, and I don't have to do any more tests for it. I still don't know what kind of lobbying you fell for, that you just don't want to accept this logical thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u19	Thank you. Mr. Holeček, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I only want to bring one up-to-date into this debate. Yesterday I played the postman here and handed you these yellow papers, it's the ECPCP's position, the European Confederation of Primary Pediatricians. Their executive committee has sat down 6. 11. And I would point out that according to the currently published data log, the Czech Republic is showing some of the best results of child care in Europe. Any change in this effective system could significantly aggravate the health indicators of child care and negatively affect the entire healthcare system. Children need quality primary care for their health as well as specialised hospital care provided in both places by adequately educated doctors. I've already said that at the health committee meeting. Why do you want to change something that works perfectly and that Europe praises us for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u21	Thank you. Mr Hovorka, please, and then Mr Vyzula. Still factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u22	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would like to say that IPVZ has, of course, demonstrated its abilities over the past few years, and it could just be the unifying one that, let's say, today's chaos, which in education is that students find it difficult to navigate, that it would basically facilitate education and improve the overview of doctors and their inclusion in the fields. If anyone doesn't want to hear it, they don't hear it and they don't listen. And with regard to PLDD, the practical physician for children and adolescents, and children's medicine, of course, the possibility of transition is after certain conditions have been met. The transition is possible. But again, what I want to say is that what sets us apart from the rest of Europe is that nowhere in Europe is such comfort for children, for field care like ours. This means that doctors would take care of their children simply from zero to 18 or 19 years of age. In some countries it's up to six, in some countries it's up to ten, somewhere within twelve years. Then the practical doctors take care or it's in a different way. The system that is in our country is relatively cheap for insurance companies and health insurance systems. And unfortunately, I don't think my colleagues realize that now that they're actually trying to reunite these fields. I think this will lead to more efforts to get children into hospitals, although with common diseases they do not need to go to hospitals, but to be treated in the competence of a physician for children and adolescents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u23	Thank you. I beg Mr Vyzula and Mr Běhounek after him. Still factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, hello. Let me say a few words here about what has just been said. So above all, with regard to pediatrics, we would like united paediatrics for many reasons. There's no way we're interrupting the field. There is no way that we believe that care would be impaired if it was a single pediatrician, because once again it would be possible for pediatricians to be both hospital and practical. It just doesn't have a chance to be any different. It just doesn't change here like the system, except that the way of education will be uniform until a certain time. [[10.10 hours]] Of course, each of us - it's very popular, it's a very sensitive subject, it's towards our children, we all have some children, or we're gonna have grandchildren soon, we're worried about taking care of them. It's kind of a theme that's more or less popular. You have certainly received a number of letters both positive, which support one pediatrician and the opposite. I would like to say that there was a society of pediatricians who declared by letter that pediatrics should not unite. I have a letter from another pediatrician company that clearly says what we're planning is the right thing to do. I know it's sensitive, it's more or less emotional, but believe me, in no way will care for our children be affected in any way. That's one thing. And the other thing about the whole law. The IPVZ has been mentioned here whether it will supervise or the faculty will supervise. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Sorry. I got a letter from the medical association -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u25	I'm very sorry, but I can't extend your time. Of course, you can sign up for a general debate where time is unlimited. I now ask Mr Běhounek, after him Mr Krákora.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u26	I promise I won't be in thirds or more. Please, no care system for our paediatric patients, no age reduction, no change in this law. Only the method of education, which will be uniform, is changing and will be able to replace hospitals in the field of doctors who are missing there. One thing. Second thing. If we were all to read the law properly, it is clearly stated as regards the method of organisation of the certificates and all these matters, the appointment of the certification committees and other matters, that it is in the hands of the Ministry. It's supposed to be public, available on the website, so that the chaos that has been said here by colleague Hovorka isn't. But the system so that we can transfer it to one institution, when the Ministry can choose five institutions, is useless in terms of law diction and complex amendment. Please, IPVZ calmly, if the Ministry decides, and it's his organizational component, to transfer some part to him, so it can do so. This would probably be possible under certain circumstances, but it is up to the administration of the Ministry, because it has a major responsibility for the level of education. If we want to move it up and up, we have to leave it in one place, that means the Ministry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u27	Thank you. Mr Krákora, Mr Hovorka after him and then Mr Štětina, still factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u28	Mr President, dear government, colleagues, I think I can comment on pediatrics because I have been working for 35 years in pediatrics, both outpatient and bedding. I think the impressions and concepts are just mixed up here. Let us not confuse care and education. We're talking about care and education, and we're mixing it all together. We want to allow for a better, better, qualitatively higher level of pediatric education, so that there may also be mutual representativeness, but nothing should change in care for the worse. On the contrary, it would be the same or better. Please, let's not confuse these terms. Something else is care and something else is education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u29	Thank you. Mr. Hovorka, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u30	Thank you, Mr President. It's just education. It was said that nothing changes, that basically everything remains the same. But it's changing. Education of practical physicians for children and adolescents is currently four years old, education of children's doctors hospital is five years old. It is now proposed to merge this field of education for five and a half years. That means you've got at least one and a half years of blackout where a new man doesn't actually come into the field. I have also noticed many times from hospital doctors that as if those field doctors, practical doctors for children and adolescents, are less educated because they have only been educated for four years. This would then have to be true that all practical doctors, which means adults, are far worse educated than interns and other doctors, because they are only educated in their postgraduate training for three years. I would like us to realize that there are changes. And the change, of course, is in the direction that the new proposed system does not have the training period in the field as it was currently in the field of the practical physician for children and adolescents, when after three years followed the year in the practice doctors' offices. And I think it should also be said that this is how it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u31	Thank you. Please, Mr Štětina, so far the final point in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u32	Thank you again for the floor. I'm not gonna start pediatrics here anymore. I think both camps are right. But I think what my colleague Stanjura said is true, but it is true what Mr Běhounek said that there will be no decline in any level of health care. I'm sure you can't deny that I don't know medicine, of course I don't know it theoretically, but I've practically been to all the workplaces. Only in one workplace - I don't know what maxilofacial surgery is. I've given about 40,000 anesthesia in my life, but I've never been to maxillofacial surgery. When we talk to colleagues who know something about it, and it has also been discussed on the Health Committee, for example, colleague Kostřica, certainly a world-famous otorinolaryngologist, has the same opinion. So I don't know why this field is there. And here I come up with one thing that has something to do with both colleague Stanjura and colleague Běhounek. I wonder how many maxilofacial surgeons there are in this republic and, on the other hand, how many pediatricians there are for children and adolescents, i.e. peripheral pediatricians. I have a problem with that. But I will certainly not veto this law, because this law is necessary, necessary and, in principle, good.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u33	Thank you for keeping the time limit. I would now like to address Mr Kasal's microphone, which is duly entered into the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u34	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, by opening my speech, I would first like to apply to legislative technical changes, which are in the resolution of the Committee on Health of the 41st meeting of 5 October, under press 725/3, whose reasons are in the press, which has been delivered to you, so I will not go any further back. Allow me, as one of the petitioners and also rapporteur, to comment on everything that has been said here. I must say that although I am a pediatrician, I am very sorry that the whole talk is only about this narrow part of the entire law and that is pediatrics. Ladies and gentlemen, there are a huge number of changes that will contribute to what we all call for, which means that young doctors should create conditions for their work and their education and stay in the Republic and treat our patients. Of the fundamental things that are there, and as Mr Běhounek said through Madam President, the fundamental thesis, when we drew up the law, was in order to reduce education, in the vast majority of fields, education is reduced by a year or six months. There has been a reduction of disciplines, namely the basic fields, of course there is a large number of superstructures that will be quoted directly in the law and will not be able to manipulate them, so that when a new Minister of Health joins, he should be subject to pressure groups, as a group of practitioners for children and adolescents show us in this case. [[10.20 hours]] Another thing that we incorporated there is the promenade of the disciplines, which means that what I had already encountered in Europe, when in Germany, when we were on a business trip, we were told in the county hospital that a patient with a broken hand had arrived and was refused treatment because a surgeon who served could only operate on his stomach. We don't want to get to that. And in the same way, this law goes. Furthermore, to accept that we are in the European area, so when I comment on the number of disciplines that are 43, we were based on being compatible with Europe as well. It wasn't possible without it. In particular, Mr Brázdil's proposal, one of the amendments proposed by 29 disciplines, would make a significant difference from what is in Europe, and it would complicate the education of our doctors, who would then find it difficult to apply in Europe, because they would not find appropriate settings in the fields. Next thing. I think there's a significant shift because not only pediatrics, but all branches are very feminine. I myself have a colleague and eight doctors in my department who, of course, both gradually full of their motherhood and changing and constantly have to accept new ones and, of course, this is also reflected in education, when it is necessary for women who are on maternity leave to create conditions for them to study and to be allowed to do so, because in this way they will probably feminize such fields as surgery and others, which have been the domain of men only in recent years. As far as IPVZ is concerned, it has already been said here. In the comprehensive amendment, it is clearly stated that the organisation of education must certainly be improved, but it is not meaningful to put a specific office or a specific name in the law. In general it is written there and there is no reason why the Ministry should not entrust IPVZ, which has the most experience, to direct the education itself. As for other things that are sort of a shift, it is, of course, a matter not only of promenade, but also of shortening education, which I have already said. Now let me make a brief statement, because I'm a pediatrician, so I'm a pediatrician. It's basically all there is to it, I don't want to do it, but we're really just changing education. If I take it to talk about another field, I'll take gynecology. Gynaecologists are also educated in one field and part of them are working on ambulances, doing part of the performance, meaning outpatient care, not born on ambulances. The other part of my colleagues have obstetrics, they give birth in hospitals. It's exactly the same. There is no mention at all that care should be changed. For myself as a pediatrician, I must say that we have a perfect system of care for our child patients both outpatient and follow-up hospital and there is absolutely no need to change anything about it. What needs to be changed is education, with that ten years ago, respectively. Until 2004, education was common, and at the moment, of the two thousand doctors who care for our children's patients, there are only 274, which is a number that I have directly from the head of IPVZ, who have grown up according to the new system. So that's a tenth of the doctors. The paradox is that this education and division are fought not by young doctors, not by those involved, but by those in the ambulances. So I took the job and got information on why it should be. And as they always say, let's look for some things to pay for, for some things to a woman, there's a connection here, because while I respect Dr. Šebková and Illerová, they're incredibly action because they've gotten into different clubs, not only the top officials of the government, but the big surprise was when I came to the Chamber of Deputies yesterday, where we have materials, and de facto lobbying was also shown right here in the House, when everyone on our tables has some materials. I imagined if all the professional companies reacted like that, you'd have a bunch of paper on your desk. That's one thing. Second thing, about money. It's about the distribution of residences, among other things. The moment I have a table of distributions of these places ahead of me, and the people who are most on the verge of staying in two fields, they are in the best position to distribute these residences, and there are millions of sums that they get for their ambulances. To be correct, of course, the sums are divided by half, because half of them go to the school's education, and half of them stay in the ambulance, but still these officials have a rather interesting business. Finally, I would like to say that the law itself is very necessary, it will help a large number of our young doctors, and thank you and I will be very grateful for your support in voting, in approving this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u35	Thank you, and now please, with Mr Hovorka in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u36	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I just have to react, because if we're talking about lobbying here, so if on the one hand it's mentioned that we got something on the bench, someone was in the Chamber of Deputies, then remember or read how many emails you've received recently from the Czech Paediatric Society, from the medical faculties that relate to this particular field. So we need to see it as if we've gotten a number of backgrounds from one side or the other. And you can evaluate from which side you got the documents more and from which less. If we're talking about residential education and some kind of practice broth, I'd like you to try to educate yourselves in your own ambulance and the paperwork that's associated with it. And if the hospitals wanted to use it for the residential places for the pediatrician, they could, but they didn't use it! After all, not one year has been used in the amount of 500 million, about 300-350 million. CZK, which has been allocated annually since 2009 in the state budget for the education of doctors, to residential education. I think if any major wants to take advantage of it, it's just a good thing. And we should definitely not criticize that and say that someone calls it business. And as far as IPVZ is concerned, if you read my Amendment G2, there is no mention of IPVZ anywhere. It is said that the Ministry may entrust the organization with it and may conclude a contract with it. So it is an opportunity given to this Ministry to include students in the fields and organize through IPVZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u37	Thank you and please to Mr Heger's microphone, Mr Kaňkovský will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u38	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, Dear Government, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is beginning to turn into a little bit of a little bit of a hateful push. I'm sorry. But I must say that the problem of paediatric education may become such a symbol of health conditions. In health care, things aren't solved by being patiently tuned and moving forward, rather, they're always tending to let things go for a long time and then call for some very radical revolution. I am saying this because I am trying to explain the goodwill of those who support the education of pediatricians to be united. Then I declare that I am one of them. And it's not for the field to be liquidated, but it's for all pediatricians, including the practical ones, to learn a little bit better and move the field forward. This glorified education in ambulances is not very effective. Education that takes place in hospitals, and in particular - it's not about the hospitals, it's about the teams, and it's about a larger number of people, a larger number of different complex patients, a wider spectrum of patients, it's exactly what a doctor has to educate himself with. It takes a long time, it needs to see a lot of these patients and it needs to see their wide spectrum, not only the relatively homogeneous mass, which is not only for practical doctors, but also sometimes in some departments that are too specialized. So it's an effort to expand education, make it more pluralistic, and ultimately give some flexibility to the industry so that people between hospitals and practical ambulances can move better. I'm not taking anybody's beliefs that the mass petition has raised in some of you. I just want to remind you how volatile and hard to grasp is this popularity and persuasion. Please remember how we discussed mandatory vaccinations about a year ago. Remember how many people were convinced that those practical pediatricians who enforce vaccinations are bad, that they don't explain it to patients, and that they just have to add a lot. Please, that's not pediatric slander. I've always been very supportive of them in this way, and I've said they're doing what they can, what they're being ordered by the state. But they also had a large number of supporters, and those who will vote for that petition today certainly do not want to report. That will end my peddling for unified pediatrics. I just wanted to explain a little bit that there is a possibility of education that is relatively good - everyone is right that the field works at least in comparison with a foreign country comparable, which is not quite everything in our health care. But the joke of our efforts, if I speak for our virtual group, is that there's a small, maybe 5% or 10% step forward. And it is possible to do it, and we would not have to reject it and wait for a worse situation to occur, when a whole generation of paediatric practices will be educated like this, as it has been educated for ten years, and it turns out that they may lack some knowledge. That's the problem with pediatricians. Let me mention one of my three amendments. I will not discuss them all here, but my proposal B2 is given because it is very likely that it will go through the thing that I am very hard against but in vain fought against, so that the doctor in the basic specialization field can educate himself in two fields at once. I think it's wrong that a doctor, if he has three or five years, it doesn't matter if he has an intensive education in one field, has to take advantage of these years intensively, and if he wants to do another field, then he will extend his education. I have failed, and I therefore suggest that at least a condition should be introduced into the law that if a doctor is to be educated in two specialization fields, he should be obliged to be educated in one hundred percent of the time. The law is very benevolent. He allows the doctor, who is educated in one field as a standard, to be educated at 50 percent of the time. There are enlargements that I agree with because they concern people on parental leave so that there are periods of life where this person can only be educated in 20 percent of his time. So if this accumulates together, we can have doctors educated in two disciplines who will do it in half or even less time, and that education won't be worth anything. So while I do not think that this has happened often, there should be some restraint in the law just because one of the reasons why this law has been pushed so far is that a number of instructions and the existing law are not respected. There are no observed internships, there are no required performances. It may have some objective reasons, but there is also a number of sklendrians and a lack of control by the Ministry of Health, which does not have the capacity to do so, and therefore the law should also have some barriers in suppressing the sklendrian, even if it is difficult by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'd like a microphone with Mr. Hovorka's de facto. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u40	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Only through you to Mr Heger. If we want to link a petition to preserve the field of practical medicine for children and youth with the upheaval of people around vaccination, then we need to remember why the wave of resistance was triggered. This was caused because there has been an increase, an increase in the penalties for doctors for not inoculating according to the vaccination calendar established by the vaccines. And it must also be noted that the practical physician for children and adolescents has a limited time in which he has to manage his ambulance. It is not that the doctor does not want to discuss with the mothers what vaccine they can or cannot inoculate, whether the child is to be vaccinated later or not. This, in my opinion, is the fault of the National Immunization Commission, that there are no vaccines that moms would like and can't inoculate, because it is otherwise set. So here I wouldn't blame the practical doctors for it for the children and youth, but rather the Ministry of Health and NIKO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u41	Thank you. Mr. Kaňkovský's microphone, please. Mr Svoboda - proper applications in the debate will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u42	Good morning, Madam President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. There's already been an amendment to Act No. 95/2004 Coll. a lot to say. I must say that this law, in fact, against the entire original version, against that government form, has made significant changes, and it must be said that most of them are the result of major compromises. The law had great ambitions, and I dare say that we may have reached half, maybe quarter, in fulfilling these ambitions, but we certainly haven't reached the finish line. In spite of all this, I dare say that rejecting this law or refusing approval would be a loss of long work both by the working committee and, on the one hand, a very complicated and lengthy legislative process. Despite all this, let's not overrule this law. It brings us some improvements, but we certainly have not been able to meet the expectations of young doctors in particular. The third reading is mainly about amendments. I would like to mention my amendment, which we will vote under the letter J. This is about allowing the mothers to have a shorter period of work in preparation for the test, of course, especially for fathers' doctors, so that they can have this part-time, which they would have counted on their test preparation until the start of compulsory schooling of their child. [[10.40 hours]] This proposal came from a discussion with young beginners. And from experience from the hospital, I know that some doctors actually use it. It is not massive, but it is true that some doctors, given that they care for a disabled child or have a family situation that requires it, use this tool. This certainly does not mean that doctors who prepare to be tested for the pre-school age of a child would not work at all, but would like to use this mechanism to fulfill their parental and family roles. That is why I would ask you if we are trying, and most of the political subjects in this House repeatedly declare that we want to allow a better reconciliation of working and family life to enable doctors to do so. In practice, this will not mean any significant problems. At the same time, I would also like to make one request towards the voting procedure. I would like to have a separate vote on the points under H, in such a way that at least point H3 is voted on separately. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u43	Thank you and please to Mr. Liberty's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u44	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, there's really been some kind of war going on here. But I'd like to start from the very beginning. It sounded here, one of the colleagues said it was just one thing. I'd dare to protest. Health care doesn't matter. It's double, depending on how it's financed. It's either centrally funded or multi-sourced. Then there is another version of health: health is either good or bad. This law is intended to help health care be good. And we should keep that in mind at this point. Not their own individual wars. I know that at the beginning of the dispute between pediatricians there was some sort of non-negotiable agreement between them because they were trying to find some form of how they would work. They didn't agree and there was some sort of division of the thing. And since I was actually involved in building pediatrics in the emergence of practical physicians for children and adolescents because it was a chamber action, I also tabled an amendment to get it going again. But my reasons are completely different. I know very well that it's actually functionally two slightly different fields. They have different fillings. We know this in our profession in gynecology because outpatient gynecology and constitutional gynecology are also very different. And we have a situation that doesn't yet have pediatrics. At that point, the doctor, who will test for gynecology, is qualified for everything, and the next day after the test, he leaves the hospital and goes to the outpatient sphere. That's the thing that caused us not to have a doctor in the infirmary today. We don't especially have doctors with qualifications, with a testimonial. And it's a thing that's bound to happen to pediatricians. The moment there's free entry, there'll be a reverse situation. We won't have a doctor in hospital care. That's what I think is a serious problem. Therefore, I would actually appeal here to maintain two options of child care and youth in our decision-making so that in the future these two areas can agree and agree on what option they will vote for. We're actually ordering them now. We're under a lot of pressure, we have different opinions about it. And I'm not sure we make the right decisions. That's why I think it's the kind of conservation of the status quo that would be a wise thing to do in the future. However, there are many things throughout the law that are absolutely essential to us and move health education forward. Let's make it clear to define the powers of those who have an acquitted tribe. Whether these are clearly defined periods of education, whether there is a clear definition of the responsibility of the person responsible for education. I think that in the future it will have to go towards a completely... relatively very free education system, where the workplace it educates will be responsible for education. He will bear the personal responsibility and guarantee of the one who educates, the guarantee of the professor or the Chief of Staff who does it is the most important thing a graduate can have. And such a person can also say, yes, I will have this member of education tested earlier or have to test it after some time. You have people who will learn to operate for two surgeries. There are those who won't learn it in their whole lives. And that's what we're calling for. What our young doctors are calling for. They want to have a relatively free hand in that they can apply their knowledge and skills and apply them quickly. And they also want to know that after education, their standard of living will change. From extended student years, they will reach a level where they can actually start living fully working and economically. And these are all the things that this law is going to do. That's why I'm calling for this - let's leave the dispute over things that aren't quite vital. Let's leave them lying as they are, and let's decide all the other things that are there. There are a number of things that are essential. There are a number of things that still have some shortcomings. But then it's easier to supplement than this law, to let the material fall under the table. I therefore intercede for this law to become functional in order to be adopted, with the fact that I say my reservation, which I consider to be very important, because its effects are very difficult to assess. And the truth is that the child care system is the thing that should most of all be on our minds, and we should drop our weapons and wait for the solution to be known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u45	Thank you. And please, to the mic of Mr. Brázdil. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, what a wonderful third reading! Beautiful. Law on doctor education, third reading! So many opinions, so many contradictions. Does this law really solve anything? Imagine that he came here on the basis of a working group that has been trying to work things out for a long time. And, hey, we don't have the original one to discuss, but we have a proposal from four Members. At the same time, we say it's a bill submitted by the Ministry of Health. I ask, if we vote first A, that we accept the amendment as the basis, then the minister will take turns here and there will be no more Minister-designator and the other three applicants will come? Isn't that right? Or enlighten me. Well, you know, I've learned that I can't make a motion right now to dismiss the law. He said because someone didn't read it at second reading. The House is a souvenir. I'm making the proposal, so you're gonna teach me that I can't. And I'm giving the second proposal that this law should come back if it doesn't pass the first one to return to the second reading. You know, this law was created to make young doctors, to the future, who now decide to study in some way to stay here. So they don't run away so it's transparent, simple, shortened. What came out of it? So many doctors, and everyone has a different opinion. I don't like it very much. If we keep going like this, let's not make laws. This law, if it doesn't pass, nothing will happen. In this form, in so many changelings. And we don't even know which ones go through yet. Nothing's gonna happen. Our health care is excellent, it stays excellent. And this law, if it does or it doesn't, doesn't affect it. Once again, Madam President, try to tell me if we can vote to reject the law. And if not, return to second reading. And I would ask you, colleagues, very much, that when we vote in the first amendment, we do not allow ourselves to continue to deal with a complex changeling, but to deal with a law that has been going on for years, several years, prepare smart people who have seen it differently than now emotionally and somehow under lobbying, who have prepared it well, but then I do not know why the law has changed to some complex changeling by four Members. [[10.50 hours]] Finally, I would like to say - I have put in my amendment or a number of amendments, so that there are simply no functional courses. What is the purpose of this course for you who are not doctors? The functional course is for a group to make their own smuggler, so that the external sound duct from the left-hand side controls one functional course and the other side of the ear controls the other functional course. Because it's mirror-turned. These are functional courses. What's that for? You know, the law was supposed to be for doctors, not for those who are in charge, who are in the background of individual disciplines and further education. I mean, yes, it's about money. Please, let's return the law to second reading, or at all, when we vote at the end, let's not approve of it at all. Nothing's gonna happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u47	I'm just talking about your proposal - we have to follow the rules of procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, Section 95 (1) (a) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union shall apply. 2 - I quote: "At the third reading there is a debate in which it is possible to propose only the correction of legislative technical errors, grammatical errors, errors in written or printing, adjustments which logically result from the amendments tabled, or to make a proposal for repeating the second reading.' This is the only proposal that can be voted on after the end of the debate. That's for your information, Mr. Ambassador. I am now registering two factual points. Mr. Janulík's microphone first, please. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u48	Madam President, colleagues, fellow governments, I will also contribute my little bit to the mill after 30 years of practice. When you think about it, show me one single professional group that's making such complications in your professional life as doctors. You really should be. You're not gonna find that. With all due respect for colleagues who have spent so much time on this - the original intention was excellent, but I feel that we have completely lost our way in finding compromise. It's so slimy and sloppy that even I don't really get into it anymore, virtually. There are so many particular interests, as my previous speaker said, that I say to you, with all due respect to my colleagues, to the committee that has spent his time working on it, to the petitioners, that for me personally as a doctor with thirty years' experience, the purest option will be to pull out the card, leave and not take part in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u49	Thank you. I beg another de facto Mr Heger. Mr Brázdil will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u50	Thank you. I must say a few words to my colleague Brázdil. The fact is that there have been very significant changes during the preparation of the law. There's a public secret as it was, and I'm just gonna say it here just to keep it interesting in history. I was at the first stage when the law was prepared in the form that is now tabled in the amendment. Then there was a small pause, the Czech Medical Chamber came and put into the version, where there will be thirty disciplines, a very substantially reduced version. It would have been possible if this version of the Czech Medical Chamber had been properly dragged to the end. If there are two major disciplines, cardiology and gastroenterology, and one remained as a specialization field, and the other was to be as an additional field with a length of study of at least seven years to comply with the European Union rules, so two years after internal, it just didn't work out that way. So it went back to the original version, and it represents the design under the letter A. I highly recommend voting for him. Otherwise, the TOP 09, where there are different opinions, will also vote in favour of the proposal because it is excellent, it will move our education forward, no matter how many amendments it passes. The debates that are here, and especially on children's pediatricians, are really a little marginal from this point of view, because pediatricians will remain good in any case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u51	Thank you. I'm asking for a microphone with the de facto Mr. Brázdil. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u52	Thank you. I would just like to say once again that I propose that we vote on the return of this House's press to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u53	Yes, I'm registering your request. Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. I see no one, so I am done with the debate. I ask the plaintiff if he is interested in the final word. That's right. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I really am very brief, because I think that all the essentials have fallen. The debate revolved around whether it would be united or not, united pediatrics. I am still a supporter of the single pediatrics, but I understand that some colleagues have been impressed by the arguments of the association of the practical physician for children and adolescents. As for the other matters, as regards the way in which the proposal was dealt with by the Health Committee, I think that a lot of work has been done over this and that basically the opinion of the Health Committee on the amendments is very erudite, very responsible. I believe that whether there are some votes on some amendments one way or another, this will not change the fundamental meaning of this law. I would very much like to support this law as a whole, because I think it is moving us very significantly forward, although I understand that there are a lot of doctors here and everyone has a slightly different idea of how it should be. But know that you can't quite find a proposal where everyone will be completely satisfied. However, we probably agree that the law as a whole solves a lot of Czech health problems, and I would very much like to approve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u55	Thank you. I ask the rapporteur whether he is interested in the final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u56	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I've only been very brief. I would say that, in principle, both the Ministry and the Health Committee have worked exemplaryly on this law. It is a law that the medical public really needs on one side and, on the other, it expects from us. That's all. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u57	Thank you. We shall proceed to the vote on Mr Brázdil's proposal. It's a motion to return this bill to second reading. I'll check you all out and ask you to sign up with your cards. At this point, I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 257, 158 registered, for 5, against 131. The motion was denied. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the amendments. I ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure, then to present the various amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u58	Let me read the voting procedure first. So, first of all, we would vote on legislative technical adjustments. Second, we would then vote on a comprehensive amendment. If it is not adopted, then the proposals under letters B and J will be non-voting and will be voted on by the Government's bill. If a comprehensive amendment is adopted, then we will vote thirdly on Amendment B1. If adopted, there will be unvoting amendments D1 to D8. If it is not adopted, fourthly, we will vote D1 through D8, if they are adopted, the unvoting C3, C4 and C5 will be unvoting. If they are not accepted, we will vote C3, C4 and C5. Sixthly, we will vote on Amendment B2. For the seventh amendment B3. For the eighth amendments C1 and C2. For the ninth amendment, C6. For the tenth amendments C7 and C8. For the 11th amendment C9. For the twelfth amendment D9. For the 13th amendment D10 and D11. For the fourteenth amendments by G4a and G4b, they are identical to 12a with regard to the repeal of § 5a para. Article 4 (1) (a) h, which will no longer be voted on. In the fifteenth time, the D12a would be voted on with regard to the repeal of § 5a para. Article 4 (1) (a) (g). For the 16th time, it will be voted on Amendment D12b. 17th on Amendment E. 18th on Amendment G1a and G1b together. If it is not adopted, it will be voted on Amendment F. For the 20th Amendment G2. If accepted, J1 and J2 will not be voteable. If it is not accepted, we will vote J1 and J2. For the 22nd time, we will vote G3, Twenty-three, and here I will respect the proposal of my colleague Kaňkovský, where we would vote H1 and H2 in whole and H3 would vote separately. Then we would vote on proposal I, and then we would vote on the bill as a whole for the last time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u59	Yes, thank you. I'll ask my colleagues if they have a different procedure proposal. That's not the case. I'm gonna have this procedure voted out. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 258, registered 168 present, for 167, against no one. The procedure has been accepted. I beg you, rapporteur, to give us a tour of each vote. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u60	Madam President, thank you for the floor. We would now proceed to the vote on individual amendments. Firstly, we would vote on legislative technical amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u61	Opinion of the Committee, please. [[Recommendant.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Recommendant.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 259, to which 168 are registered, for 166, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u62	We would now vote on the comprehensive amendment under point A.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u63	I'll have the Minister's opinion, please. [[Recommendant.]] The committee? [[Recommendant.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 260, to which 168 are registered, for 161, against 2. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u64	We would now vote on Amendment B1. The amendment expresses the expression of the professional chamber on functional courses.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u65	Committee opinion? [[Unadvisable.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Unadvisable.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with serial number 261, registered 169 present, for 16, against 110. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u66	We would now vote on Amendments D1 to D8. This is the launch of functional courses.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u67	The Minister's position? [[Negative.]] The committee? [[He doesn't recommend it.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 262, registered 169 present, for 11, against 143. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u68	We would now vote on Amendments C3, C4 and C5 with one vote. This is a specification of functional courses used to deepen education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u69	The Minister's position? [[Positive.]] The committee? [[Recommendant.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 263, registered 169 present, for 159, against 2. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u70	We would now vote on Amendment B2. It concerns training to take place in a employment relationship with one provider.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u71	The Minister's position? [[Unadvisable.]] The committee? [[Unadvisable.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with serial number 264, to which 170 are registered, for 16, against 113. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u72	We would now vote on Amendment B3. This concerns the possibility for the control of specialisation education to be attended by a member of the accreditation board.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u73	The Minister's position? [[Unadvisable.]] The committee? [[Unadvisable.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 265, registered 170 present, for 14, against 112. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u74	We would now vote on Amendments C1 and C2. This is an adaptation of specialisation education in pharmacy and pharmacy, and part of it is an adjustment in the list of names.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u75	The Minister's position? [[Unadvisable.]] The committee? [[Unadvisable.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 266, registered 170 present, for 37, against 116. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u76	The next proposal that we will be voting on is Amendment C6, which regulates the conditions under which a doctor may serve during education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u77	The Minister's position? [[Positive.]] The committee? [[Recommendant.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 267, registered 170 present, for 163, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u78	We would now vote on the proposal C7 and C8 which are related. These amendments provide for the possibility of training during maternity leave.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u79	The Minister's position? [[Positive.]] Committee opinion? [[Recommendant.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with serial number 268, registered 171 present, for 167, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u80	We would now vote on the C9 proposal, which regulates the confirmation of the completion of the qualification course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u81	The Minister's position? [[Positive.]] The committee? [[Recommendant.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with serial number 269, 171 registered, for 167, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u82	We would now vote on Amendment D9, which reduces the number of basic fields to 29.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u83	The Minister's position? [[Unadvisable.]] The committee? [[Unadvisable.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 270, logged in 171, for one, against 125. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u84	We would now vote on amendments D10 and D11 which include an opportunity for the Ministry to recognise education if there is an administrative error.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u85	The Minister's position? [[Unadvisable.]] The committee? [[Unadvisable.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 271, 171 in attendance, for 2, against 152. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u86	We would now vote on the amendment G4a and G4b. This proposal includes the removal of the maxillophacial strain from the list.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u87	Yes. The Minister's position? [[Negative.]] The committee? [[He doesn't recommend it.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 272, registered 171, for 31, against 86. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u88	Now we would vote on Amendment D12, which speaks of... sorry, sorry. Since G4a and G4b have not been approved, we cannot vote on the D12 proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u89	Yes, then another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u90	Sorry, sorry, legislation. [[Consulting off the microphone.]] Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u91	Mr. Rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u92	Sorry for the minor misconduct. We will vote on the amendment to D12, which includes the release of the maxillophacial strain, but it introduces cardiosurgical.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u93	Yes. So, the Minister's position? [[Negative.]] The committee? [[He doesn't recommend it.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with serial number 273, 171 in attendance, for 14, against 97. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u94	We would now vote on Amendment D12b, which is being reinserted by the oncological strain.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u95	The Minister's position? [[Negative.]] The committee? [[He doesn't recommend it.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with serial number 274, registered 170 present, for 6, against 114. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u96	We would now vote on Amendment E, which talks about the inclusion of occupational medicine in the list of basic fields.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u97	The Minister's position? [[Unadvisable.]] The committee? [[Unadvisable.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 275, 171 registered for 43, against 104. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u98	So now we would vote on the amendment of G1a and G1b, the preservation of two paediatrics.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u99	The Minister's position? [[Unadvisable.]] The committee? [[Recommendant.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 276 registered 170 present, for 80, against 72. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u100	We would now vote on proposal F, which is similar and is also about maintaining two paediatrics.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u101	The Minister's position? [[Recommendant again.]] The committee? [[Unadvisable.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 277, registered 171, for 80, against 74. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u102	We will now vote on the amendment to the G2. This is the inclusion of IPVZ as a legal entity directly into the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u103	The Minister's position? [[Negative.]] The committee? [[Unadvisable.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with serial number 278 registered 171 present... I don't know how much opposed it was because the service switched it over. For 46, versus 109. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u104	We would now vote on the amendment J1 and J2 which, once again, addresses IPVZ into the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u105	The Minister's position? [[Unadvisable.]] Committee opinion? [[Unadvisable.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 279, registered 171 present, for 43, against 105. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u106	We would now vote on the amendment to the G3 which complements the time limit for the pursuit of the profession.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u107	The Minister's position? [[Negative.]] Committee opinion? [[He doesn't recommend it.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 280, 171 registered, for 10, against 118. The motion was denied. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u108	We would now vote on an amendment to the H1 and H2 proposal, which concerns the withdrawal of the condition of obtaining licences for the pursuit of the profession of chief or senior physician.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u109	The Minister's position? [[Unadvisable.]] The committee? [[Recommendant.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with order number 281, 171 registered, for 118, against 14. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u110	We would now vote separately on the H3 proposal, which concerns the same, but only pharmaceuticals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u111	The Minister's position? [[Unadvisable.]] Committee opinion? [[Recommendant.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It's a vote with serial number 282, 171 registered, for 107, against 12. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u112	We would now vote on the last amendment I, which proposes allowing early-time education to be given up to the age of a child of six years, respectively. I'm gonna take you to school.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u113	The Minister's position? [[Recommendant.]] Committee opinion? [[He didn't take any position.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with serial number 283, to which 171 are registered, for 128, against 33. The motion was accepted. Mr rapporteur, if I am not mistaken, all the proposals have been voted on and we should proceed to the vote on the whole bill. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u114	Yes, that's right. Even according to my records, we should be voting on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u115	May I have the Minister's opinion on the law, please? [[Absolutely positive.]] Committee? [[Positive.]] Initiating vote... I'm sorry, I take it back. I will make a motion for a resolution before we vote. "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 95/2004 Coll., on the conditions for obtaining and recognising professional qualifications and specialised qualifications for the exercise of the medical profession of a doctor, dentist and pharmacist, as amended, House print 723, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies. And now I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand... [[Objection from the diaper.]] I've already started... [[Objection lasts.]] Okay, I'm re-jumping the vote. There's a check-out request. I'll check you all out and ask you to re-enlist with your cards. At this point, I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 286 registered 168 present, for 131, against 13. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. With priority right, please contact the head of the TOP 09 club. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u116	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask for a 30-minute break on behalf of the TOP 09 and the starosta. And I'll ask all the club members to come to the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u117	Yes, I will grant your request. I am interrupting the House meeting within 12 hours, when we will proceed according to the approved program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-002-187.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 12:01 p.m. and we will continue our adjourned negotiations. Before we open the next point, allow me to load an apology from my colleague Benešík, who apologized from 9.15 to 10 o'clock. He's here. But it's okay for the stew. Now we should look at the point
