ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-007-999.u1	The combined general debate on paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 52 and 53 / House printing 608 and 609/ Mr Petr Bendl is the first to sign up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-007-999.u2	Have a good day. Mr President, Minister, colleagues, these two government bills bring about almost revolutionary changes in the way of access to transport infrastructure. It was probably clear in the past, and it had to be clear to all of us that if, in the long run, the Czech Republic and the transport ministers, as they were on the clock, all worked to separate the transport infrastructure or, respectively, when I say this, the wagons from the tracks where the tracks wanted to be allowed to take care of the transport infrastructure, as it was on the road, and to actually allow private carriers to enter the country, so that it would not only be a state issue in the railroad, but to allow competition in the railway area and on our routes. It was probably obvious that there would be a need to find a solution when a private carrier comes and says, "I'm interested in traffic, I want you to give me this chance" and someone will have to judge at what time, in what terms, in what quality, etc. This cannot be done by the person who owns the transport infrastructure and operates the rail transport at the same time because it is in a significant conflict of interest. I therefore understand, in principle, that the Minister of Transport brings forward a proposal on how to address this situation. But it actually means two new offices. Office for Transport Infrastructure and Office for Enterprise Protection. It's one and the same. [[A note from the diaper.]] Okay, one new office, so we saved it. However, it's a brand-new office. I think the devil will be in the details that it's not a law that can be rejected at the moment. But I agree with the rapporteur when he himself said that it takes more time to finish the impact and discuss individual competences. And maybe even a simple debate like that, why appoint the head of that office for six years, if it's not too long. Or if this form is common. Because there may be problems, I don't want to call them in, but now we're dealing with a case - or I can see how the SŽDC case is solved and what we're kind of impatient about, what it means. And there will be a new office that will enter the environment of competition, it will not be at all easy to set it up so that there is maximum effort for justice. I'd almost like to say that there's no way to win this fight, that it can't end well. But something in form, or someone in the form of supervision, of not being discriminated against in the transport market, we have to have someone, we probably agree on that. If this is to be in the form of a new office, or if there is no other way to treat this and at the same time ensure independence, we should discuss this in committees that I believe will take an interest in. Therefore, from my point of view, material that does not need to be rejected at first reading, but it needs to be subjected to a really significant revision of individual competences, and if it has to be a completely new office at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-007-999.u3	I thank Mr Bendl. Another duly registered member is Mr Martin Kolovratník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-007-999.u4	Thank you for the floor. I'm going to follow up on what I announced when I came here as a rapporteur. Perhaps with this speech, I will calm down or perhaps tune in to Mr Bendl. I know the Minister will frown a little on me, but I say the words with exaggeration and, of course, I am prepared, as my fellow rapporteur Karel Šidlo said, for the debate just within the framework of the guarantee economic committee. It really is possible to set the system so that no new office can be created. I confess, and I want to say it out loud here that I have a problem with the emergence of a new body in general, and if I see a possible way or an alternative where we could do it differently and not have to create a new office, I want to explore it and discuss it. The truth is, this discussion, these ideas, they've been going on in the interdepartment last year. The alternative was more. Anyway, if you look at the explanatory memorandum to the material, it is said and it is accepted that the European Directive 2012/34/EU on the Single European Railway Area admits that the regulatory authority, the regulator we are talking about, could run at the same time with the already existing other body. Which is, and that was my first thought when I read the proposal, so I tried to answer myself when we already have the Railway Authority, what it does, why it couldn't merge. The European definition states that the regulatory authority in that basic definition should, firstly, comply with the establishment of a law as an administrative authority for the exercise of regulation, the most important is the second indent - ensuring the independence of a regulatory body, which will be completely independent of any other public authority, including the Ministry of Transport, and finally autonomy within the chapter of the state budget. I promised I'd be brief. Now I'm really going to limit this performance to a short description. From the materials it is possible to set the system using the modification of several paragraphs just within the framework of Act No. 266/1994, on railways, and this would be in accordance with Articles 55, 57 and 58 of that Directive, so that this regulator can function as the Railway Authority, or a part thereof. It is important to say that this is how it works in Slovakia, where they have an institution called Transport Department. And now in the opening act, please forgive me for saying this, I would call it in quotes a bug in the head that we should talk about and explore. Thus the simplification explains that within the existing Railway Authority, the technical and construction sections would remain under the Ministry of Transport, which means they would be responsible for it. All decisions could be reviewed while maintaining a two-stage decision-making process, but with the exception of the regulator's agenda, the new regulatory one, let's say the working section would not be under the Ministry of Transport. This can be done in such an organizational manner and European legislation allows it to do so. This is the introduction of such an and the knowledge of this purpose, this idea. I've informed my colleagues from the Ministry correctly. My idea is that I will prepare what I have just described here, let's say, free speech, in the proposal paragrafo of the text before discussing the Economic Committee. Let's see if the proposal has any logic or not, and we'd be standing up to it on the guarantee committee. I appeal on time, of course. We all know we're very late. If the debate is to delay the negotiation of the law unnecessarily, I will gladly withdraw in quotation marks and respect the first proposal. But, as I say, and I address mostly to you, colleagues from the Economic Committee, I would like to take a look at this very alternative, which I think is better and cheaper, with the first discussion before the second reading. From the first calculations, it's based somewhere at half the cost of the original version, even if you could say that they're units of millions, and I think it makes sense to try to save those units as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-007-999.u5	I thank Mr Kolovratník. With the factual remark of Mrs Olga Havlová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-007-999.u6	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Minister, the Minister is submitting a fundamental standard for the construction of transport infrastructure to be approved here. This means that he wants to set up a new office called the Office for Access to Transport Infrastructure, which is to be an official body of the state administration, if I have understood that correctly. According to the petitioner, the aim is to ensure the creation of an independent regulatory body for access to selected transport infrastructure and the Authority is to be a central body for railway and air infrastructure to use their services, price control and support. The President appointed by the Government for six years shall be the head of the Office. I would like to know, Minister, why for six years and why you advocate an independent regulator when, on the one hand, you want to disturb independent regulators and on the other hand, you want to re-establish them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-007-999.u7	I thank the Member for her point of view. Who else is reporting to the merged general debate? The rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-007-999.u8	Thank you for the floor. I will be very helpful and I will support my colleague from the Kolovratník Economic Committee, because I believe, as I have already indicated in the rapporteur's introductory words, that unfortunately the independent regulator is not quite luckyly built. In fact, three variants are proposed under the law. I think that the discussion on this subject, what independence, in what competences and under which professional assumptions, is appropriate, and I suppose that we can work on a different option than the one that could have been the only possible, and that is the creation of a new office entirely. I think it is important to respect that an independent regulator of anything should be competent professionally, that is, eligibility. It is not only a question of access to the road as such, but today, as proposed, the Authority does not even have the competence to allocate the capacity of the road. That's another problem. We need to look for some synergies that will work so that, once we have a body here that has a hallmark of independence, it actually plays the role of regulator, including, for example, price regulation and other relations with other regulators in other European Union states on rail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-23-ps2013-042-10-007-999.u9	Thank you to the rapporteur. I ask who else is reporting to the merged general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the merged general debate and returning to the House of Press 608, which is the point
