ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u1	Madam, honourable Members, Prime Minister, I am opening the 45th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 41 Members. The invitation was distributed to you through the MPs on Tuesday, April 12th. Please sign up with your ID cards. Mr Jeroným Tejc has a replacement card number 3 and Mr Martin Komárek cancels his apology. We shall now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mrs Marta Semelová and Mr Jaroslav Klaška. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the verifiers of the meeting. I'm opening the vote. Whoever is for the verifier Mrs Marta Semelová and Mr Jaroslav Klaška, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number one, there are 100 Members registered, for 95, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that we have designated the 45th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies Mrs Marta Semelová and Mr Jaroslav Klaška. We will now proceed to the appointment of the 45th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the House shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. It is therefore not possible to propose a change or addition to the program. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. Mr Petr Fiala, President of the Civic Democratic Party, is the first to discuss the priority right before the programme is approved. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, dear Prime Minister, I am before you to justify why we have called this extraordinary meeting. I had a little doubt as to whether I should start talking when the Minister of the Interior is not here, but the Minister of the Interior is coming, so from this point of view, everything is fine. As you all know, in recent days, a number of explanations, many often contradictory information, have emerged in connection with the problematic moments surrounding the police's progress during the visit of the President of the People's Republic of China. And we are of the opinion that this subject certainly deserves to be explained to citizens in order to explain to the Chamber of Deputies that we should receive structured and competent answers from government officials, as it was, what happened, what measures have been taken, so that something similar does not happen again in the future. I want to make it clear that we didn't want to make it a special policy, and we didn't want to burden the House's work in any way. That is why we have proposed that this item should normally be included in the agenda for this meeting. The government coalition refused, and it blocked our procedure, so we have no choice but to force the government through an emergency meeting, force the Minister of the Interior to inform the House about the procedure of police and security forces during a visit to the Chinese President in the Czech Republic. Of course, I have no doubt that ensuring the security of the Supreme State Representative of the Foreign State, in this case the People's Republic of China, is an undoubtedly difficult task in terms of operational planning, and that our security forces have done well in this case, too, because there has been no threat to the safety or health of those involved. However, we have had a number of such public visits in the past. There have always been precise preparations, there have always been various security measures, but these visits have never been accompanied by incidents such as the visit of the President of the People's Republic of China. There have been a number of events that need to be investigated, which must be explained. We need to know if the police have acted in accordance with the law, and if not, who is responsible and what steps will be taken. Let me remind you here - but I think you all know it in general - the cases that are referred to in public, several events that, in our opinion, deserve an explanation. First of all, this is a case of preventing protestors from entering Hradčany Square. What is really serious and what raised doubts, even the apology of the police president, is the entry of police officers on academic grounds, specifically at the Faculty of Film Academy of Performing Arts, where police officers investigated the hanging of Tibetan flags. I don't know if an apology is enough. It also needs to be said and given a clear answer to who ordered the police, why they did it, and why something so serious, something that we all have to be sensitive about, has happened. Another problematic moment, of course, is bullying peaceful activists, confiscating Tibetan flags that were privately owned, preventive control of citizens who did not participate in any demonstrations, etc. One of the main failures was undoubtedly the poor coordination of the organizers of the state visit with the representatives of the security forces. It turns out that the police were probably late in a number of cases, which, in turn, caused conflicts that could have prevented better coordination. And this already suggests some kind of political failure. The political failure to which the government must respond, to which the Minister of the Interior must respond. Incidents are also under investigation by the Prague State Attorney General and this must also conclude whether there has been a violation of the constitutionally guaranteed right to free expression and non-violent expression of personal opinion, which we can also doubt here. For example, there was no such thing as for repeated checks of cars with posters, were visited by registered offices of companies and private apartments due to the hanging of flags. And I don't think that all of these things, where there's a restriction on privacy, where there's a restriction on personal freedom and the freedom of ownership, can be removed by the motto of service zeal -- well, those policemen were zealous, so they just acted... That's a really weak answer. We need to know if there was any assignment behind this, and if there isn't somebody to deduce personnel, political and other responsibility. And I understand, of course, and we all understand that the Chinese President's visit took place in a securely sharpened time. We all know that. In such a case, it is possible and necessary to evaluate the security situation more carefully than before and to take measures that need to be stronger. But it is difficult to see - and this does not follow me, and perhaps the Minister of the Interior will explain it to me, it does not imply to me that even in this situation the hanging of the flag, the presentation of the flag in hand, the peaceful expression of opinion could be assessed as a risk to a protected person. In fact, there are a number of questions about why the police acted so, at whose order they acted, whether this was necessary and why all this happened. And that is the main general political question to which we need to hear the answer from the government, from the Prime Minister or from the Home Secretary. The general question, which is linked to the visit of the Chinese President and all those incidents, whether it was primarily motivated by the security and protection of a public official, or whether there was, say, the political background of the organizers of the visit to influence the preparations for security measures so that the action - the visit of the Chinese President - had the right political and ideological message, or whether it was not more in favour of guests from China than in favour of protecting Czech citizens and their rights. [[11.10 hours]] All these questions, all these doubts must be answered. Not only citizens deserve it, police officers who do honest work every day deserve it, and suddenly there are some doubts as a result of this action. And if we wanted to do what the government did by not allowing us to place it here as a proper point of action and wanting to somehow sweep it under the carpet, then of course it will continue to undermine the reputation of the police, it can shake confidence in its impartiality and independence, and that would be the worst thing that could happen to us. I mean, in this House, most of us remember 25 years ago, when there was no confidence in the police, when the police were often instrumental in political bullying. And we were all happy that the situation changed, that today there is confidence in the public in the police, that the police are serving the legal democratic state, and so it should remain. I am very sorry that there has been a breach of trust in impartiality and good work of police forces as a result of the police procedure, whatever the assignment. I think that this point, this extraordinary meeting, is also an opportunity for the government to explain to us how it was, to explain to us what measures it has taken to restore trust in the Police of the Czech Republic together. Because trust in the police is one of the key elements of the democratic rule of law, and we all have to go across the political spectrum to have that confidence in the police in the public. So, Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior, I have asked you a number of specific questions regarding the police progress in visiting the Chinese President, and I am asking you or I am making room for you to answer them and to explain convincingly what actually happened in the days of the visit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u3	Thank you to Chairman Fial. Miroslav Kalousek is the chairman of the TOP 09 programme. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, what was the motive for initiating this meeting, has already been said by President Fiala. I would only dare to thicken it into two basic points, which bothers not only us, but also a large part of the Czech public. That first point is the answer to the question of why we all feel that the police did not act in a way that they were all equal before the law. That the so-called Chinese tourists were not equal before the law - I do not want to speculate now about their military or diplomatic rank - and why the Czech citizens in the Czech Republic were not equal to them before the law. That's one basic problem. The second fundamental problem is why the constitutional right of assembly of citizens of the Czech Republic has been limited to the territory of the Czech Republic and why someone believes that the constitutional right of assembly can be restricted by transport engineering measures and who has decided on it. These are two blocks of questions that really bother us, and I think that the Czech public is really interested. And that, in the interests of the credibility of the Police of the Czech Republic and its prestige, it is necessary for the government to have a credible answer to them and not to make embarrassingly excuses, as the police President and the Home Secretary did last Thursday. I would like to make a few specific cases about the incidents described here in general by President Fiala. I realise that they should be subject to a specific investigation and let them be specifically investigated. But it's probably a good thing to remember what really happened, what there are concrete testimony photographic and video documentation. I won't keep you long. There's only ten of them. I only picked ten out of those 40. A group of activists, as we well remember, exchanged two - words - two - Chinese flags for Tibetans on the European class's public lighting columns. Gradually, about 60 police officers gathered here and finally firefighters with a rig, who, if you'll allow me to say so, collected activists on the columns. The police arrested and took 12 Czech citizens to Bartholomew, but among them also those who were just standing on the sidewalk with Tibetan flags and did not participate in the exchange of flags on the pillars. A bus full of Chinese "tourists" arrived at that place. I've marked that word in quotes several times, so I'm going to call them Chinese tourists. At that very moment, three carolers were walking down the pavement with puffs who probably didn't even know we had a Chinese president visiting. And Chinese tourists hysterically attacked those carolers with pilgrimage after verbal outbursts. They probably thought the ribbons on the puffs were Tibetan symbols. None of the aggressive Chinese attackers were detained on those trick-or-treaters. The whole situation of the attack on trick-or-treaters was filmed by a photographer named Referendum, who had a Tibetan flag on his back. As he passed through the Číňan, his flag was torn down, locked between them, and beating him with metal jerseys with their own Chinese flags. The cops pulled him out of the crowd and arrested him first for disobeying the challenge. After he was loaded into an anton, they changed the reason for his arrest and in the interrogation said that he was detained because his health was threatened. So they were actually helping him and protecting him. However, no one was arrested from the Číňan. Another incident took place in Velvarská park near a mobile billboard with Tibetan Dalai Lama and former President Václav Havel. Around 14 o'clock before the passage of the Chinese president's column, several dozen Číňan with big Chinese and Czech flags gathered before the billboard. During the passage of the presidential column, they completely covered the view of the mobile billboard with Havel and the Dalai Lama with a huge Czech flag and a welcome poster. They have also used relatively aggressive points to our citizens, let's say. The police responded to the objections of our Czech citizens, why the police would not move the Číňan with flags further, saying: What do you think is bothering you about the Czech flag? In a publicly accessible video from this place you can also see a sharp physical attack on one of our citizens directed fingers in the face. It is also obvious that the police saw this attack, while they did not address it at all, and no strangers were detained in this place. About 60-year-old lady was in the European class - it looked like Lenin's class back then, but the class is called European - attacked by a group of young Chinese women, even once by a woman and bitten, only because she held a little Tibetan flag in her hand. Again it is visible and documented that the police have seen it, but none of the aggressors have been detained, nor will they be dealt with anymore, because they are long ago back on their bases. [[Laughs in the right side of the hall.]] [[11.20 hours]] In Chotek's orchards stopped at a crossroads at a place where there is a ban on stopping, a car with a fresh van of flags and other waves from the Chinese embassy. It was blocking traffic. The Číňan started unloading the welcome material out of the trunk. The police have kindly warned several times that they should not do this and that they should leave. Nothing happened at all. The Číňan ignored them and the police did nothing, even though the law of the Czech Republic was clearly violated on the spot. No one was attacked on this particular case, but I gave it to see the double standard that the Czech citizens were detained and perlustrated for something that was not committed. The Číňan committed obvious offences and violations of the law of the Czech Republic, nothing happened at all. Police officers, as has already been mediated, entered the office building at the Hilton Hotel, where the Tibetan flag was posted in the window. With reason that the snipers couldn't see what or who was hiding behind the flag, they insisted that the flag be removed. Interestingly, they didn't mind the blinds closed. We are ready to present an expert opinion at any time that the closed blinds and the glued Tibetan flag are one and the same and that it is visible through them roughly the same. Police on Hlávk Bridge, according to their words, have identified a man with a Tibetan flag in a group of Chinese supporters, and, as they have told him, they have approached him shortly to threaten the safe passage of the presidential column and, as they have said, they have spoken to him. However, we can see in the video that after they talked to him, they also lead him away. The gentleman told us that he was fined by the police in the amount of CZK 200. In Lany, a group of four of our citizens with Tibetan flags were detained, while it is again documented that the protest was absolutely peaceful, there were four people with Tibetan flag, they took one. They were hoping the other three would change their minds. Probably. In my opinion, the extremely serious case became again on Hlávk Bridge, when a citizen living five years in the Czech Republic, a Tibetan citizen, Mr Gyamsto Gyamsto, went with his Czech friends to Hlávk Bridge with Tibetan flags to express his opinion on the level of human rights in China, which - I stress - is still permitted by law in the Czech Republic, and was not detained by the Czech police at the mouth of Hlávk Bridge, but was detained by those Chinese tourists who simply did not want to let him on the bridge with the Tibetan flag. His Czech friends continued. And then when they were looking for Mr. Gympsta Gympst, oddly enough, they found him in a police car. And when they asked why the unfortunate man was apprehended and why he was in a police car, the police told them that Mr. Gyamsto Gyamsto was identified as a security risk by those Chinese tourists, and that's why the security risk was contained. So I have some suspicion here that besides the fact that Chinese tourists were in charge of the Office of the President of the Republic of Prague 1 police officers, they were also in charge of the Hlavkov Bridge. Maybe they had a higher rank. That's quite possible. A separate chapter is the restriction of the constitutional assembly law of Czech citizens on Hradčany Square. On 23 March it was duly registered, duly authorised under the assembly law and under one of the fundamental constitutional rights of Czech citizens, a peaceful demonstration on Hradčany Square. Of course, such a gathering can be avoided in certain cases under the Czech law, but only on the basis and within the limits of the assembly law. I'm sure it's not going to be a transport engineering measure. Surely you cannot abolish the constitutional right of citizens of the Czech Republic by means of traffic signs - so we still thought that we couldn't do it in the middle of March. We were faced with the fact that it was possible, that someone simply took the liberty of limiting the constitutional right of citizens of the Czech Republic on the basis of a transport engineering measure, decided not to let those people go to this properly announced and thus clearly permitted demonstration, and it was announced to them sometime in the early morning of the day of the demonstration. The justification that, at the time of the demonstration, it was no longer timely, because the callers moved the meeting to another place, is an euphemistically awkward excuse, normally a purposeful lie. There is no legally relevant document that anyone could prove that the callers have moved a properly registered demonstration to another location. The fact that one of the four convoys, when he was faced with the police because the cops wouldn't let them go there, even though they had a constitutional right to ask for the city part of Prague 6, if they wouldn't give him part of their property in the park where the cops could have been expelled, and the city part of Prague 6 gave them the property for free and he announced it by email or in some way to the Police of the Czech Republic, maybe no one could have seriously thought that this would have been called a caller's announcement that he had changed the place of the demonstration. It's nothing like that. This simply goes differently according to the assembly law. In other words, if the Home Secretary here at my interview last Thursday claimed that the callers had changed their place of demonstration, he was either lied or lied. But he couldn't tell the truth because nothing like that happened. The demonstration has been properly announced and there is no legal title under which it should be limited. Based on these two areas, which I have taken the liberty of saying here, that is to say, measuring various subways towards citizens, whatever nationality and nationality, but on the territory of the Czech Republic, before the laws of the Czech Republic by the Police of the Czech Republic and limiting the right to collect in Hradčany Square, I dare to formulate four simple questions. In the words of four. One. We understand that we cannot be informed of a specific investigation into specific incidents. But we could get one single piece of information that could indicate equality in front of the law. How many were there from 28 to 30 March in connection with the visit of the Chinese President to the territory of the Czech Republic, the dominant capital of Prague, but something was also in Lany, how many were detained and perlustrated, or, if you please, perlustrated and detained by the citizens of the Czech Republic and how many Číňan? Just the number. Fifteen to fifteen. Thirty-thirty. Or was it really 23 - 1? I think the public has a right to know this number because it's got a clue. [[11.30 hours]] Question two. Who decided that constitutional assembly rights in Hradčany Square would be limited by transport engineering measures? Here's a particular person who had to decide. Was it the Home Secretary? Was he the president of the police? Was it the head of security? I myself am on my own, when I sought our entrance to Hradčanská náměstí, with my own ears I am from one very decently acting uniformed policeman, and again it is documented on video, he heard that to let one of us go to Hradčanská náměstí, so he would have to allow it Mr Mynář. That's what I heard. Maybe you guys who saw the video heard it too. In other words, who among us is not a security risk and can therefore enter Hradčanská náměstí, at that moment the person who, according to the Supreme Security Authority, is the security risk is himself. And he had the right to say to the Police of the Czech Republic, "Let him in and don't let him in." He, officially confirmed by the security risk, at which point he had the right to say to the Police of the Czech Republic: Franta poses a security risk, you can't let him go, Lojza doesn't pose a security risk, so you can let him go. And that's what we're supposed to call, Mr. Home Secretary, the professional performance of the post, as the police did, as you told us. That this security risk has the right to tell the Police of the Czech Republic who is and who is not a security risk. I've rarely seen a bigger Kocourkov. So who decided to limit the constitutional right of citizens of the Czech Republic by means of transport engineering measures? Question three. What particular security risk existed at five o'clock in the afternoon of March 29 in Hradčany Square, when Chinese guests and their hosts were at the Kampa in the Liechtenstein Palace, when, Minister, you again misled us here that it was comparable to the visit of President Obama. You weren't telling the truth, there's a wealth of photographic documentation about it. I was even among those who welcomed President Obama to the first courtyard behind Matthias' gate. Yes, no one was allowed in the first courtyard, but Hradčany Square was full. There may have been some security measures and security frames, but somehow those 30,000 people at the time, the police knew that they had been filled with Hradčany Square. On March 29, 2016, we stood up against the Troubleshooters who did not want to let us from Loretánský into a little bit of the Hradčanský Square at all costs. And besides those uniformed police officers who behaved very well and professionally, I saw how embarrassing they were and how uncomfortable they were, how they didn't like to do it, so there was some civilian drink who I believe was an officer of the protection service of the President of the Republic. He was arrogant, he was rude when I asked him to introduce himself, so he refused, and then he disappeared. I'm quite interested in who it was, Mr. Secretary. Maybe you'd be able to find out. But that's not one of the questions that the public has the right to ask. So the question was, what particular security risk was there? We all know who we have ever welcomed any state visits, that there is no credible security risk that can endanger a guest from Hradčanský náměstí when he is in the premises of the Office of the President of the Republic. It just doesn't exist. That's why the Hradčany Square was never closed either, whether the svatý otec was here, whether President Obama was here, whether comrade Leonid Brežněv was here in the 1980s. It was closed only once, this time, and we are all convinced that it was not closed for the relevant security risk, but that it was closed from the vanity and sense of superiority of the President of the Republic, whose wish the Police of the Czech Republic, and in my view, contrary to the law, complied with. And the last question is: why, Minister, did you mislead the public last Thursday when you said the callers had moved the venue? Move the venue doesn't mean I'm gonna e-mail a cop that if he doesn't let us in, we're gonna go to the park. Moving the venue is a process that defines the law of assembly. And just as the police have blocked Hradčany Square, in our opinion contrary to the assembly law, nothing has happened that could be designated as changing the place of conduct with the organizers in accordance with the assembly law. We would be very grateful if we got a very clear answer, not the excuses we heard last Thursday. And I have no illusions about how it's gonna turn out. After all, when we all have a sufficient statement here, you will decide, as a parliamentary majority, that you will not approve the agenda for this meeting, thereby not allowing the other Members of the Chamber of Deputies to comment on this and to share their own knowledge, their own experience and their own conversations with their constituents. You just can't let that happen because you don't want it to come out. I don't blame you. I'd be ashamed, too. But maybe it would really benefit the atmosphere if you made it possible. And then nothing happens. But nothing can happen. We will keep asking these questions, and we will use all the political and legal means, not to grill anyone, none of it, but to never repeat it. What happened those three days was an unprecedented violation of the rights of citizens of the Czech Republic in the Czech Republic. Now we are not talking about human rights violations in China, Tibet, Taiwan, this is, of course, a very important part of the public debate, but what we want to talk about now and here at this extraordinary meeting is the violation of the rights of citizens of the Czech Republic in the Czech Republic, the double standard of the Police of the Czech Republic, and the fact that the Police of the Czech Republic on somebody's instructions to those instruments which they have by law, those instruments which their citizens have entrusted to her, did not use to protect their property and security, but used to suppress the speeches that some authority called inappropriate. We don't have the police here for that. This must not happen again, because if we accept the explanation that we received last Thursday, and if we accept the message that we put on the table this morning, which I have not yet read in detail, but I have not read anything that answers the questions that I have asked or asked Mr Fiala, if we accept this and lower our heads, then none of us must be surprised when they take our next time without talking and explain it to anyone. And I don't want to live in a country like this, and I'm gonna fight it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u5	I thank Prime Minister Kalousek. I would just like to point out to my colleagues who are reporting with factual remarks that we are not in the debate. If you want to make your factual remarks, approve the agenda for the meeting, then the debate in which you can apply them will follow. Now, with priority rights, Vice-President of the Civic Democratic Party's Civic Party, Jana Černochová. Please, Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I think a lot has already been said by my previous speakers, including the fact that I find it very annoying that the Minister of the Interior promised us on Thursday that they would be able to speak up and ask Members, not just Members with priority rights, and from the comments made by Mr Váňa's Chairman of the Security Committee, it is clear to us that you will not approve the agenda and that no one will have the opportunity to ask the Minister. It seems to me that it is a shame and that it is a completely unnecessary gesture of the government coalition, an attempt by the government coalition to block something, because we know that Thursday's day is firmly linked to the interpelations and these interpelations will take place in the afternoon, so this meeting could not be longer than 13:00. And I think we're all aware of that. [[11.40 hours]] I am therefore sorry for my colleagues who cannot speak because they do not have priority rights. I am also sorry that the Minister did not keep the second promise he gave us on Thursday that we will receive a message that we will be able to meet on Tuesday. We got her on the table yesterday at 9:00 p.m. and today. E-mail yesterday at 9:00 p.m., on the table today. Of course, I did the report during tonight. I have read some of the things that the President of the TOP 09 Kalousek and the President of the Fiala have already said, and I believe that the sentence - let me quote - is that "the attempt of the Police of the Czech Republic was not to underestimate any knowledge or signal that could develop into a direct threat or the emergence of a dangerous situation." Similarly, the report refers to almost every other side to the security situation, to events in France, Belgium and Germany, to the fact that it was declared the first level of threat to terrorism. Then what is it, Minister Chovanč? We've been listening here for three weeks that there are no terrorist attacks in the Czech Republic that there is no need for any increased security measures, and yet in the report that I assume you've read, it says this sentence. Don't you think it's a little small, let me use that word, chucpe? That, on the one hand, you're saying we're safe, and then the increased security measures, unprecedentedly increased security measures, excuse the first degree of threat to terrorism? You know, I don't think you're gonna give me any credit, those who know me either from this term or from last term, I'm not looking for every opportunity to criticize the Police of the Czech Republic for anything. On the contrary. When demonstrations took place in February, although I am an opposition Member, I was the one who defended the Police of the Czech Republic. I can stand up for myself here, of course, by individual police officers who, on the principle of their work, obey their commanders and must follow orders. It was said repeatedly here that similar security measures, and it is written by colleagues from the Ministry of the Interior and in the report, were here in the past when other major statesmen were visiting. It's not true. Just as it is not true a whole series of other information that is in the report. I happen to be 18 years old at City Hall of Prague 2. I was vice mayor for two term, mayor for the third term. And you probably know where Prague 2 is, you know how it is affected by the various meetings and national visits, given that we are the central part of the city. I remember George Bush's visit both younger and older, I remember President Clinton's visit, I remember a visit from Pope Benedikt, with whom I had the opportunity to even shake hands in front of St. Jesus. There were no security measures of this magnitude anywhere on the streets. If we are talking about a visit comparable, i.e. a power comparable to a visit by the Chinese President, I can mention a visit by then President Medveděv and US President Obama, Mirek Kalousek also mentioned this when he was able to get to Hradčany Square, there was a chance to get to the surrounding streets. Indeed, it is stupid and false to argue that the protection of protected persons is the reason for these measures. The reason for these measures was to protect the Chinese President from reality. You know, I really think that there was a violation of the Constitution of the Czech Republic in the Hradčany Square in the impossibility of implementing the right of assembly. Because it actually states in the law of the assembly that if, for any reason, the caller or the one who allows the meeting decides, the situation will be evaluated in some other way because of some circumstances, the circumstance may be a vis maior, it may not be a security situation at all, but it may be a natural disaster, so it has an obligation to offer an alternative. And that's not what happened here. Similarly, the obligation under the law of the assembly is to inform the notifier three days in advance. That didn't happen. And I totally agree with what was said here by Mirek Kalousek. There has indeed been a flagrant violation of the law gathering absolutely a standard which is not comparable to this constitutional law, namely the traffic restrictions it issued at the request of the protection service, i.e. the Police of the Czech Republic, the City of Prague. The traffic measures, I actually assessed it with the previous traffic measures at the events, so something so extensive Prague doesn't remember yet. I don't know if that's what you remember, Home Secretary. I know that you are from Pilsen, as well as Mrs Krnáčová, Mayor of the capital city of Prague, is from Bratislava. So maybe you're here with us the gatherings that have been here in the past, state visits, so maybe you didn't live with us in Prague. But I think that even from the information you can find at the Ministry of the Interior, and there are a number of commemorators of the meeting of the Monetary Fund, the World Bank meeting, when half of Vyšehrad burned in Prague 2, and it was me who stood up as one of the first police and thanked them for their work and for making it happen. Today I don't have the feeling that I want to thank the Police of the Czech Republic for anything. Today, on the contrary, I have the aftertaste that stems from the fact that, although the decisions that define the premises that will be closed have obviously been made by representatives of the protection service, the magistrate has complied with all their demands, so unfortunately some police officers who were directly on those streets were unable to manage or separate groups of protesters from each other, but not to evaluate what they have to evaluate from the law on police, i.e. what is the level of security risk. If what really happened here in Prague these three days is appropriate to the protection of those who are protected and to be protected by law. I'm not denying that a whole range of security measures shouldn't have been raised, but not in this crazy way. You know, when we visited President Medveděv and President Obava, we also participated as mayors in the transport arrangements. We received and helped inform residents, citizens of Prague 2, about these measures, because it was also in our interest that these things would go smoothly, so that people would know when they were moving from one part of Prague to the other part of Prague, which way to go. And everything about traffic restrictions was on the website of the City Council of Prague and on our website of the city parts two weeks before arrival. And then, yes, just like a marathon has been running in Prague for years, so we know what locations to avoid, we know where to go. [[11.50 hours]] I would also be interested in the costs lost by a number of entrepreneurs and people who actually got four hours from one place in Prague to another. I've been through this myself a couple of times. And it's not true, and I can really guarantee you, Minister, that I know this, it's not true, as your report says, that something has been placed in the mailboxes of the sites concerned and that the residents have been informed. We weren't! Rašín's waterfront, which belongs to Prague 2, Myslíkova street, which belongs to Prague 2, there were police roadblocks and no one from the inhabitants of this part or from the town hall got any information about these closures. That's my question to you. I want to know who and why he issued such a blank check to the Police of the Czech Republic so that you can actually build police roadblocks and prevent transit in hl. m. Prague and localities that were miles away from where the Chinese President was. If the Police of the Czech Republic and your controlled resort really need it. I don't think so. In order not only to criticize the Police of the Czech Republic, I really think that the Magistrate has a great deal of peace in this failure and in this three-day chaos. m. Prague and the inability to communicate with Mayor Krnáčová with the mayors, perhaps also you as Minister of the Interior about what measures according to representatives of the Czech Republic. m. Prague is adequate. If only I'd sat in the mayor's seat. m. Prague, I would never allow measures to this extent. I'd like to know more about the streets than it was in the past. And don't tell me that this information is classified under the Police Act. They were not kept secret during the visit of Medveděv, Obama, Pope Benedikt, Clinton and other prominent statesmen, should not have been kept secret even today. I will allow myself not to delay other colleagues who have the right of priority, because perhaps you will not approve of the programme, so maybe I would have taken the liberty of trying to load, in case you approve the programme, the resolution that we would like to adopt, but if you do not approve the programme, I really think and I can promise to the public for myself and perhaps even for my colleagues, who are sitting with me on a permanent committee for the control of security forces, virtually. The general inspection of the security forces that we will be dealing with each individual case that will arrive at us and which will point to some failure of a member of the security corps, very closely. I would also like to continue with this debate, which today will be limited by this time, to the Security Committee, because we really have a number of question marks, and although this report is not entirely comprehensive, I have a number of specific remarks here about the specific descriptions of the situations that I know, Minister, and you may not know that they are false. I want to ask you, did you actually read the report? How could you send something that I really think you already know today was different from what your officials describe? To me, it seems like a very bad job by the Ministry, which is actually reflected in the fact that we're here to discuss something that we get in late night hours, and there are still things that aren't based on the truth. I would perhaps also go about history, how we have seen in the past and how the democratic society has developed into the police, so thanks to our experience of municipal policy we are actually going through different stages, when we are going through CzechTek, respectively. At the meeting of the Monetary Fund, we had police officers for heroes, and I actually personally thanked them for how they handled the situation. Then followed by Czechtek, when, on the basis of the political assignment, it turned out to be such a special fiasco, at the end of which unfortunately was not the resignation of the then Minister of the Interior. Then, again, the police built their good name for a while, and today we are getting into a situation where the public lost confidence in the Police of the Czech Republic. And that is not our goal as a legislative body to deny that the state system is a security force that we should trust, trust, and be able to rely on, so that the password really applies, that they should help and protect. But helping everyone and protecting everyone - not selectively, as we have unfortunately witnessed, and these matters are documented. It is not true that there has been no violation of the law, as the police president said, that he apologizes for the FAMU - which I acknowledge with gratitude. On the other hand, if the police president really hasn't seen any other excesses, let him sit on YouTube for a while and see a few of those videos, or if he doesn't, he can contact me and we can send him a few links, because it's actually proven that the police didn't act on the law at some point. And these are exactly all the things I'm going to want as Vice-President of the Permanent Commission for Control of the General Inspection of the Security Corps, I'm going to want to investigate these individual incidents, virtually. The Director will provide us with information on how these incidents have been investigated. In conclusion, I really dare to express some hope that what has happened here in these recent days is something that will not happen again. That we will not be in a similar situation again on November 17th, when we celebrate the anniversary of the Velvet Revolution again, that there will not be a repeat of the situation where the police selectively decided again who they wanted to let at the meeting and who they do not want to see, that there will not be another Chancellor Mynář or anyone else who will issue quasi-holidays and say you do, you don't. Indeed, the right of assembly is something that we have fought for for many years, and I think it is in the interest of all of us not to take this fundamental right. When you think about how the Magistrate and Police of the Czech Republic proceeded after consultations with the Ministry of the Interior on Hradčanský náměstí, there is one question in this evaluation - can you really limit every meeting in this way? So may some politicians in this Chamber of Deputies want to hold a meeting in time before the elections, and the agreement between Mrs Krnáčová of YES and representatives of the Ministry of the Interior for the ČSSD will be such that traffic restrictions will be made, will not notify the entity who wants to hold the meeting in advance, and will the assembly cancel in the same way? Doesn't that seem dangerous to you? Colleagues, colleagues, you are in a position now, but in the next term, you may be in opposition, and you may be faced with somebody wanting to suppress your rights as well. Where will it be when it's over? This is where Pandořina's box really opened, and it is in the interest of all of us, and especially in the interests of the Minister of the Interior, to close this Pandořin's box of infringement of the right of assembly in this unprecedented way, or we will all pay for it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u7	Thank you, Vice-President Černochová. Now with priority rights, Vice-President Filip. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u8	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Madam and Gentlemen, I will be very brief. You know, maybe I'll talk more from the point of view of my profession. I appreciate the independence of the police investigator in the criminal law, the law on police, the Code of Criminal Procedure. I would hate to influence their work, and I suppose the Home Secretary knows what he's signing when he writes that according to the investigations conducted so far and the evaluation of the police, the police process is further investigated. He's been checked out by the inspector general. In this respect, therefore, I consider the police investigation to be unfinished, and I would not like to enter into the rights of an independent investigative body by doing so. That's one position. Second position is more personal. I didn't understand the speech of my colleague Kalousek, and I have a question for him through the President about the fact that he wrote a thank-you letter to the police and to the Prague Castle that he had not been admitted to Hradčanská náměstí. Because, as he said himself last week on television, he likes to fight - we remember him slapping a young man in front of the Chamber of Deputies - and that therefore he could not commit any offense to be tortured by the police. So in this respect, I don't know whether he's taken that step or not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u9	Another duly signed up is Mr Laudát, followed by Minister Chovanec, after whom President Kalousek. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, I would say something here as I see it, the whole matter, in a broader political context, and as I quickly managed to browse through the report we received on the table, or in the e-mail last night, respectively. Just for a very short time. As far as the political context is concerned. Part of the public is slowly getting used to the fact that the current government, in cooperation with President Zeman, has changed the course of Czech foreign policy and prefers to establish cooperation with totalitarian regimes. In this category I also rank awkward compliments to the Chinese regime. A recent visit to the President of the People's Republic of China in Prague has made it quite clear how profound the departure of our foreign policy from our positions in the Václav Havel era is. The organizers of the Prague visit prepared a welcome for the Chinese President, which was similar to standardized masquerades in welcoming communist dictators before 1989. So it is no wonder that a certain part of fellow citizens have led to the need to express their views not only on Easter's European class decorations but also on the state of human rights in the country of the president's friends. In this context, there is an inexcusable behaviour for the democratic country of the police, which supervised security during the visit. I refuse to call into question or marginalize, as has been said today by a Social Democrat in news coverage ČT24, what has been going on towards our citizens. It is true that there have been no serious injuries. However, this does not mean that this is not a serious situation. A number of social crises and violence in history were preceded by "marginal" matters. Sometimes it started with a pint of beer in the pantry, other times with a bunch of patronized individuals who couldn't find a decent purpose in her life. The leadership of the police and the security services could still be making excuses for the nervousness of security risks when visiting the president of the world's most populous country. Mr. Home Secretary, how do you explain the recent behavior of the Bochov Police during President Zeman's visit? Why are people who have come in a decent way to protest against the behavior and attitudes of the president of our country being perlustrated and subsequently summoned to give an explanation? I consider the action in Bochov to be a clear intimidation of citizens who have a different opinion than the currently ruling political papals. In this context, I would like to ask you for a statement as to who ordered the police officers in Bochov to perlustrate the inconvenient citizens and who subsequently called them to give an explanation. What measures will be taken to ensure that citizens, whether directly or indirectly, are not intimidated for expressing their opinion? What are the disciplinary consequences of the police leadership of the Bochov case? And please the Security Committee, if it addresses the circumstances of the police's operation around the visit of the President of China, the so-called People's Republic, to deal simultaneously with the Bochov case. Come in. The behavior of the police in Bochov and during the visit of the Chinese President shows that this cannot be a coincidence. Master, who issued an order to violate academic freedom, and why, if security was clearly not compromised or there was a threat of breach of the Chinese President's visit? Don't you consider the behaviour of the police again to intimidate people who have expressed a different opinion than President Zeman and his comrades? Minister, how did the planning of Pching Ťin's visit work? In today's so-called final - but I would quite like to say that this will be the final report. The author of the report condemns himself of the way the action was prepared, apparently chaotic and unprofessional. I'll get back to it. The organizers of the protest meeting at Hradčany Square behaved entirely in accordance with the laws in force and the police, once again at the order of someone, evidently limited the illegal rights of the protestors. [[Legal]] Who gave orders to the police in Hradčany Square? There's a name coming up, from the officers' service, that it was Chancellor Mynář. Those who remember the years prior to the fall of the Communist regime in 1989 will surely remember that Miroslav Štěpán, the head of Prague Communists, gave instructions on the interventions on Wenceslas Square. A separate chapter is the behaviour of Chinese welcomers in the streets of Prague. I can't imagine Czech tourists, and even the employees of the embassy, as some presented themselves, behaved in a foreign country just like the Chinese stick in Prague. It is unacceptable for me that employees of any embassy in Prague interfere with our internal affairs. Minister, why did the intervening police, according to the published footage, quite obviously side with the Chinese welcomers and unnecessarily restrict Czech citizens' right to freedom of expression? Who issued these orders? I'm asking again. I will raise a question to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic, because Mr Zaorálek is at an important meeting in Brussels, whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic is considering the expulsion of a Chinese embassy employee who clearly violated his status in our country. For TOP 09, freedom of expression is a fundamental pillar of democracy. We wish freedom of speech not only to our supporters but also to our opponents. We believe that by a consistent and fair examination of the procedure of the Police of the Czech Republic during the visit of the Chinese President in Prague and the Czech President in Bochov in Plzeň and by drawing consequences against the guilty, you will prevent the repetition of similar excesses or their escalation in other similar actions. [[12.10 hours]] Finally, let me thank all my fellow citizens, who have expressed their views in a decent way on human rights violations in the People's Republic of China and who are not indifferent to the behaviour of our current head of state. Thank you to all who are not indifferent to the tragic fate of Tibet, I note the occupied Tibet. And to those with short memories, I would say that 26 years ago Czech countries were occupied and Czechoslovakia was occupied. On my own report. I've already said here that I'm staying and I don't agree with it being called final. I understand that it would be very good for someone to be final, and I call on the relevant parliamentary committees, which I am not a member of, and which have the task of doing so, to deal consistently with both cases, both by the conduct of the police in Bochov and especially during the visit of the Chinese President. Only here briefly, the summary begins immediately: The police have ensured the safe course of the visit of Chinese top officials by standard means. I confess that I agree that Chinese representatives do. The only people who apparently did not feel safe or need not feel secure were citizens of the Czech Republic who had a different opinion from President Zeman, Chinese welcomers and Chinese president. Then there's talk of instruction. A glimpse of the report gives me the impression that someone is ordering, and in the end, police officers who followed orders that were in particular places can be punished. Well, that's a little bit of a text without a deeper study that somehow brings me to it. As for the Hradčany Square's own business. From 1995 to 2006, i.e. without the restoration of the Municipal House from 1997 in operation until 15 September 2006 I was the director of this institution. There were a number of very sensitive, securityly risky events. Everything was carefully planned in advance, there was no ad hoc at the last minute to change the perimeter of security, always those who prepared it were fully professional, everything always went to satisfaction. Citizens were informed in advance about the fields, all measures. The local residents were treated in a very kind, friendly way, actually helped and protected, not bullied, sent, removed, closed, etc. And if the author of the report wanted to convict himself or the Police of the Czech Republic and the Prague Protection Service and all those who prepared a visit to the Chinese President, the report was convicted according to my amateur experience and gives evidence that something had ceased to work in this country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u11	I thank Mr Laudát. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We will continue with priority rights before we decide to approve the agenda for the meeting. The Minister of Interior is now speaking Milan Chovanec, also with priority rights. A colleague of Kalousek will be ready. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u12	Mr President, honourable Members, allow me to comment not only on the report but also on the debate that has been held so far. Two years ago, when I became Minister of the Interior of the Czech Republic, I found the Police of the Czech Republic in a condition that was significantly worse than it is now. I found her in a state where there were two police presidents, one of which was illegal under the following court decisions. The same police president has now become a politician, and I read his statement very carefully when he kicks the team he was kicking for earlier. But it's his choice, he wants to become a politician, it's his right. Only I have the right to comment. You know, it used to be a habit here that the Home Secretary or the police president always sacrificed a few police officers to end this case. I'll never do it. I'm not gonna sacrifice one single person without him being guilty. I'm just gonna defend these people, and I'm just gonna defend them. And you know why? The police are a living organism, the police are made up of people who have families who have children who have parents, and when they read about themselves in the unnamed weekly that they are the agents of the FAMU intervention, just because the journalist is mistaken and confused with the Protective Service of constitutional officials with the President's Protective Service, we are preparing difficult moments for the commander concerned. I'm talking to these people. And the police also need certain psychos to serve that state. It's not just about getting dressed and wearing them and giving them a paycheck, it's about giving them some status. I say here again that the police have handled the visit as a whole very well, and I will thank the police again from this place. They handled the visit very well. It was a few thousand police officers who were gradually deployed, thousands of police officers daily addressed a visit to the President of the People's Republic of China, who was on a visit to the Czech Republic for the first time in history. And if I am not mistaken, we were the only European country he visited. There was talk of damage to the companies. I'm sorry. I was also in business years ago, and I understand that the short-term losses to those businesses and entrepreneurs are painful. On the other hand, this country is likely to receive hundreds of billions of crowns of investment. I think the price to get economic prosperity, jobs for people isn't bad. I have also clearly said that if it is proved that the police should object to the Chinese citizens against the Czechs, that they have orders to tear down Tibetan flags, that they have this order from the police leadership, that is, from the police president or his deputy, that I will resign immediately from my post. Before I do, I'd do anything to get those cops who did this to leave in front of me. There's no evidence of that. If you look at the briefing that all the cops had, it says the exact opposite. The opposite. And we've witnessed some media repression, as is customary lately, when certain positions have been presented there right after the hits. It's a tax on democracy and mediocracy, it's okay, it's the world we live in today. On the other hand, I always ask for a few days or weeks to be able to examine things so that we can not only examine the one record and the one photograph, but talk to those people to give their testimony so that they can express themselves. That's what democracy is all about. Democracy isn't about screaming. Democracy is about everyone having the right to express their opinion in order for the truth to come out. And we have tried to summarize our view, which is also based on the testimony, in this report. I would like, by your means, Mr President, to agree with Mr Laudát that the report is not final. She's final only and only for today's meeting. The problem that's here is going to develop. There are several applications for the General Inspection of the Security Corps, which must be investigated. The influence of the Minister of Interior on this is zero, so in the past the Chamber of Deputies decided to transfer the inspection of the Minister of Interior to the system of the General Inspection of the Security Corps, which is fine, I respect that. But my tools to save things from my own inspection are zero. I have an internal audit, I can save the economy, the management of funds in the police, and that is certainly also an inspection or therefore an audit by the Minister of the Interior. Visits by other politicians, presidents, popes and others have been mentioned here. Let me remind myself that we're in a different situation. We are at a time when, a few days before the President's visit to the People's Republic of China, an assassination was committed in Brussels. We are in a world where terrorism and terrorist threats are far more urgent than they were during the visits you are talking about. I really cannot imagine that we would like to allow any of the visitors to visit as much as President Obama's visit to caress him. I don't want to experience any more of the fun of a ball gun shooting at the president of the Czech Republic. The world is diametrically, but diametrically different from my point of view. Whoever decided to close the Hradčany Square said that here in her speech, Mrs Černochová. And I don't even want to ask her, by your means, Mr President, but her statement: we in Prague know best, you are from Plzeň, the mayor is from Slovakia... Don't be mad at me, I don't really understand what you're saying, and I'd like to assure you that even in Pilsen, which is a beautiful city, we have television, we have the Internet, and it's certainly not that far to Prague, so we don't know what's going on in the capital of our country. [[12.20 hours]] As regards the closure of Hradčany Square, it was a technical measure approved by the City Council of Prague. I think if the mayor's signature is in there, he went through the approval process of officials, experts, specialists. And if they had any doubt that the police had made a request that was meaningless, they probably wouldn't have issued that measure. We're in the state of law. We are in a democratic state and can object to these things in this case in a court of law. If I'm not mistaken, a group of people who wanted to come to Hradčany Square turned to court. And the cops tell me, we use this on a smaller scale, but we often use it for ten years at different events. If we fail in court now, we will be very difficult to ensure security in the Czech Republic. If that happens, and if the court proves that the activists or the people who brought this suit against the administrative act of the Magistrate at the request of the police, that is true, if they are right, then we will probably have to come as the Ministry of the Interior and ask this House to amend the law. We will justify it and, of course, it will go through a standard process. So the closure of Hradčany Square - at the request of the Police of the Czech Republic, the commander of the measure, we asked the magistrate, the magistrate granted it. You guys told me when I was from the Plzeň to ask the old-timers. I asked them, of course. I asked a particular police officer what it was like to visit President Obama with the Hradčany Square, because I would very much like to mislead President Kalousek through the President. Of course, I was getting information from the police. The policeman said yes, I was in Hradčany Square then, it was empty. It's been cleared for hours, gates and tourniquets and a security passage were installed, and anyone who went through a meeting or a meeting with President Obama went through a security frame. But Hradčany Square before the event was really cleared out. I have no reason not to trust that policeman. I don't have a reason. To your questions, how many people have been confined to freedom and how many have been illustrated. 23 people have been apprehended. In statistics that are public, it's not whether they were Číňan or Čech, I can't tell the difference. And if you are interested, Mr Kalousek, through Mr President, in the number of people who have been illustrated, I will deliver it to you, but I must draw your attention to the fact that the staff who have been going through these events have also been illustrated. This means that the number will be quite large and I don't know what it will say, but even there we are not able to distinguish what nationalities those who have been illustrated were. As for the other questions and questions, the report we put at the Chamber of Deputies meeting today, I apologize that you didn't receive it until after eight o'clock yesterday, because we were still working together with the police, so, of course, it will be subject to certain criticisms, and I assume that it will be discussed in the committees. We'll prepare for those committees to come and have the debate. I think this country needs mainly unity, not fighting. And the political dictionary, Mr President of Kalousk, of course, of the kind of perjury, lie, lie, lie, etc., of course you have the right to use it, but I just don't want to go down that path. I want to look for a match, I want to look for political penetration, and I don't want to earn any political pseudo spurs by de-honesting people. Because the name of the person you met was a civilian drinker, don't be mad at me, President Kalousek, but if we use this rhetoric, I'm afraid I will feel like a civilian drinker for the voters, and I just don't want to feel like one. In the report we gave you, from our point of view, the main problem is that the police entered FAMU for the second time. That's a major problem. It's a major mistake. It's not a violation of the law. Academic freedoms are freedoms that have become a customary right over time, and I am glad for that. I even told the Dean on his personal visit. I didn't go to the dean because it was such a big deal, but because I promised, and because I think politicians are supposed to go to people and not invite them to the presidium or the ministry. And when an excess like that happens, they're supposed to pull themselves together and walk away. We got there without the cameras, without the press. Why the press, too? It was supposed to be a friendly debate, and it was a friendly debate. I was clearly saying at the time that as a 1989 student, I think that the academic freedoms, although not already enshrined in the law, and if you think that it is necessary to specify them better, then perhaps it is good to return to being brought into the Czech legal system, these common rights that must be maintained. The police behaved clumsyly. After the first visit, when the Tibetan flag was posted and on some gallery on the school building, when the police confessed to me that unfortunately they didn't know who the building belonged to before they went, they didn't find it, it's their fault that there were a certain number of people there and they assessed it as a safety risk for the possibility of passing through the motorcade because it was one of the routes for the motorcade. So they went to the school to see if the people who were there really were part of the building, part of the school. They were told that they were, and that was the end of it. Subsequently, the President's security officer and the commander on the scene decided to send a two-man patrol once more. The request came from the President's Protection Service, which is part of the police. The president of the Czech Republic is not really in charge, nor is Mr Mynář in charge. So they sent a two-man patrol back to the building to ask if the hanging of the Tibetan flag and the gathering of the people on the balcony were okay. That was pure nonsense and clumsyness, and we apologized for that. Those policemen who are facing disciplinary action aren't the two who went there. They were following orders. The two who wanted it and ordered it face disciplinary action. Those two are facing disciplinary action. This drive will take 60 days. After 60 days, an ortel will be spoken, and they will be punished exactly according to the degree of guilt that will be proven. Allow me to make two more observations. Of the 23 detainees, one person was even convicted, he's Číňan. He's Číňan, and he's been charged and convicted for stealing another man's Tibetan flag. That's the result of a judicial review of the case. About the Bochoř. In Bochor these people were interrogated with the fact that in the end a man was accused who came to express his support to the President of the Czech Republic. This means that people who opposed or opposed the President were not affected. Quite the opposite. And I remind you once again, if anyone in the Czech Republic has any doubts, suspicions of the police legal procedure, the only legal path that exists is to contact the General Inspection of Security Corps. My entry into a live case with the General Inspectorate of Security Resources isn't. And it's okay. My ability to influence the General Inspection does not exist. I do not want to stretch the debate until one hour so that there is still a chance for colleagues to speak and, if necessary, to respond to any further questions before voting on the agenda of the meeting. I would really like to, and I would ask all of you, to often respect the words, to realize that the police are a living organism, to realize that there are specific fates behind them, and that by criticizing the police as such we are criticizing all 40, fifty thousand people. And these people, I meet them in Hungary, Slovenia, Macedonia, these are people who serve the Czech state, who wear our flag, carry a lion on their shoulders, and they certainly are not people who would sigh after an old regime. Those aren't people who want the old order back. These are modern police officers, police officers of a democratic state. [[12.30 hours]] I'm quite fascinated by some of the comments I read that we saw the red flags on Lenin's class. The time when we confessed to foreign powers, we must remember well. But we're elsewhere. We are a democratic state, we are a proud state, we defend our rights... [[From the right you can hear: We're going back there.]] We are not going back there, my colleague, through the President. And if you don't mind, when your colleagues spoke, I wasn't yelling at them either. And if we're going back there - I'm convinced we're not going back there. We are a democratic country where a court decides on matters where people have the right to speak. Even today's debate is that we live in a democratic society. And I'm glad for the debate. I think this country has a lot of other problems, but this debate also needs to be conducted. I'm ready for her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u13	I thank the Minister of the Interior for his speech and ask my colleagues to speak if they have been given the floor. Now, my colleague Kalousek and Minister Herman will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u14	Thank you for the floor. I'll be very brief. Colleagues, let me first answer the question that Vice-President Filip directly asked me whether or not it is true that I wrote some thank-you note that I thanked them for blocking it because they liked to fight. No, it's not true. I didn't write any such letter, I never thought of it, there's no such letter. It's just a rumor from the deepest basement in Aesthebacus, for which training had many people, whether in the past they called themselves Falmer or Bureš, or whatever. [[The laughter of some Members]] It's just not true. I'd like to say to Minister Chovanc that I understand he's thanking the police for making it. She really did it from a security point of view. Order and safety have been preserved here. But even so, political police officers could argue after Palachův's week in 1989. At that time, the police also managed and the safety of the citizens was preserved. At the same time, it did not take into account the rights of citizens of the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic. They kind of didn't have that priority. And now the police have done it, too, except that it has not taken too much account of the rights of citizens of the democratic Czech Republic. And that's the problem, Minister, that's all we're talking about here. Not that the cops aren't trying. But it cannot be influenced by zeal. If someone simply violates the law of a citizen of the Czech Republic for no reason, it simply violates it and it does not matter whether he does it laxly or zealously. That's just something we can't take. And I assure you, Minister through the President, for the entire political faction of TOP 09, that we are equally interested in the prestige and credibility of the Czech Republic. [[Police]] Only you protect her from any criticism, which is understandable. We are trying to protect her from political leadership, which urges them not to respect the rights of citizens of the Czech Republic. The police don't deserve that, because as a result, it will reduce her prestige. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u15	I thank Mr Kalousek. Now Minister Herman. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I really, with great interest and attention, listen to this debate because I consider it a very important subject. For one thing, personally, and I can also say on behalf of the KDU-ČSL Club, we have evaluated the importance of holding this extraordinary meeting. That is why we have also supported it and we will also support the vote on its programme so that they can express themselves or speak to the widest possible extent possible, if time allows us to do so, as well as other colleagues. The Chinese visit concerns many dimensions. I do not want to touch the dimension of economic, but rather the dimension of ethical and human rights, because I have been dealing with this for many years and I have many contacts, many years again, with members of the Falun Gong movement in China. These are people who are faced with really great persecution, and they are prisoners of conscience, when in China the organs are being taken from completely healthy people and they are being carried out in a totally immoral business. I received very specific reports from these people about how the meetings attended were held. I also tried to get acquainted with available materials from open sources and I also spoke with a number of people from the Police of the Czech Republic. As you know, I worked alone at the Police Presidium a few years ago, and I still know many people well. Since I had a number of questions, and even within the KDU-ČSL club we were concerned about some things, so I also asked the Minister of the Interior to comment on these things. And I must say that he has always spoken very openly. And I also welcome the fact that the report we received at this extraordinary meeting is not final. It clearly states that certain errors have been detected and that the verification of the General Inspection of the Security Corps is ongoing, which is certainly a good thing, and I understand that this is not a simple process. I am convinced that the Police of the Czech Republic have successfully managed a very difficult security situation. I myself had the opportunity to get to know some of the details based on the conversations I had. But there are certain question marks asking for an explanation. And it is a good thing that we are also interested in this on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. That is what I think is the fundamental difference before 1989, when the right of freedom of expression was declared, and between the situation today, when there is also freedom after speech. And that's the moment we have to defend. I think that the fact, and I have verified it, that perhaps some people did not have the opportunity to attend religious services in the Bohemian Carmelites Monastery on Hradčany Square, is worrying and that freedom and free movement and the right to express their opinion by Czech citizens should be a priority right, precisely as regards intervention by the Police of the Czech Republic. I believe that these things will actually be investigated. This means that we need to deal with this, we need to give this space, we need not worry about open questions, we need to keep them on a material level. And really realize that the space we claim to and belong to is not shaped by the ethics of oriental despos, perhaps wrapped in Marxist slogans, but it is the space of Western culture that we grow from, an area of human rights. I am glad that, here on the ground of the democratic parliament and on the ground of our government, no one is questioning this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u17	Thank you, Minister Herman. Mrs Lorencová cannot speak because there is no open debate. Not even factually, because there is no debate. With priority rights, Mr. colleague Fiala, then colleague Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u18	Thank you. I just had a brief reaction to the Home Secretary's speech. I understand, of course, that the Home Secretary is defending the police, that's okay. But I have to say, that's not all we asked. We also asked for political responsibility and, above all, asked whether the measures taken and the measures implemented were consistent with the security threat. I myself admitted that the security situation had to be different than in the past, and I myself gave examples where the police procedure - and now let's ask whose order or by which authority - was directed towards expressions of civil opinion that could not pose a security threat. Who's to blame? What is the political responsibility? Where did the assignment come from? We did not get an answer to these questions. [[12.40 hours]] I would still like to stand up for General Červíček, who actually commented on the situation at our press conference. I would say very carefully and seriously about the work of the police. But the question he also asked based on the experience of providing similar events from the past, I repeated the question to you here, and we still don't have an answer to that. And that is the question of why the measures taken went beyond the necessary security. Why did the measures go beyond everything that has been done so far to ensure the security of foreign state representatives in the Czech Republic? And that's the question we need to get the answer to. I am satisfied with that, Minister of the Interior, what you said, that you are defending the police, that is a good thing, and you are to say that as the Minister of the Interior, but you have not provided us with answers to any questions relating to possible errors, possible political assignments, etc. And on top of your performance, I'd say one of the most important things. It's not like there was a good visit to the Chinese President, then someone wrote that there were probably some strange police activities and began to question the police's work. It's just that there have been incidents that the public legitimately doubt were okay. And we're just trying to get answers to the questions, who's to blame, what measures you've taken, or the president of the police, so that it doesn't happen again until the next time, what political responsibility has been made. Because the fact that we're here to say that the police were doing the right thing, or you're going to say it, but the vast majority of the public don't think so, and they feel that there's been a mistake, and you've admitted that at least one mistake has happened, so it's putting the wrong light on the police, it's threatening confidence in the police. And we cannot allow there to be doubts in the rule of law, in a democratic country about the police's work, that the police may be working on some political order, that they may be more protective of the interests of the Republic of China than of Czech citizens, etc. Those are the questions we have to answer here. I know you're gonna say, so we investigated it, there's nothing there, good, he acted zealously there, sent him wrong, they didn't communicate with each other. But some responsibility must be drawn from this, and we must have an answer to the question of whether there has been any political influence that none of us can afford. Neither you nor us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u19	Thank you. Now Mr. Chairman of the KSČM Club Pavel Kováčik, then Minister of the Interior. Then maybe we can get to the vote. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I thank you by your means, Mr President, for repeating the question here for several times why such measures on such a visit. Personally, I think that this is a visit to a great deal of importance, which carries some great risks in today's turbulent world. Why? So look nearby, colleagues and colleagues, not far from us to the west. In Paris, they prolong exceptional or exceptional conditions for safety reasons! Because of the risks that are more common in the world today. And we're here to argue whether the police have progressed softer or more gently or less. Whether the measure should have been more severe or not more extensive or less. I want to thank the police from this place for handling the situation the way she handled it. Can you imagine, colleagues and colleagues, that something would actually happen? Did something serious really happen? What would we and who would we be bringing out of this place for critical strong words about what the police should or shouldn't have done? Let us be glad that nothing serious has really happened. Among other things, because such extensive, detailed measures were such. It's not a precaution for the first time. During the visit of similarly important statesmen, whether it was President Medveděv and President Obama and others in Prague, similar or perhaps even stronger, there was a stronger security measure. That's the first part of my very brief performance. And the second part is why we don't support an emergency meeting program, that is, approving the program. You know, everything that's going on here, and I'm aware that what I'm saying here is, in a way, interfering with the investigation that's going on right now. If doubts have been raised about the procedure and actions or notifications have been made that this procedure should in some way be investigated by certain police officers, the investigation or investigation is ongoing through the General Inspection of the Security Corps, then we as communists are convinced that if we are to respect and honor the rule of law, then let us first do these bodies, which are now actively working, and only then we as politicians can evaluate the matter. Not leading someone's hand by performing here and judging a priori something as very right, something as less right. And now, of course, I'm talking about myself, because I'm also speaking in this debate. But we will not support the programme in particular because we, as politicians, do not really believe that we do not have the right to enter this process until the investigation of the Security Corps has been completed. I mean, and that concludes my brief performance, that the police have had a very difficult position in this situation, and they always have a very difficult position. You intervene - you're criticized. Sometimes it's called off. You will not intervene - you are criticized. Sometimes it's called off. I believe that the vast majority of the police have acted completely professionally in this situation. And as for my personal attitude, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u21	Thank you, Mr Kováčik. Now the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec, after whom Mrs Černochová with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u22	Mr President, I would have answered Mr Kováčik by your way at the beginning. Dear colleague, if something had happened to God, and I do not wish so badly in this country, we would certainly have an extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, where the Minister of the Interior would resign or be called upon to do so. It would be in the same model that we would have had a debate here that the measures were vague and few. Dear colleague Fialo through Mr President, I have confidence in the commander of the intervention. For one simple reason: I do not know the whole penzum and the range of information that he had, which he considered, and why for these reasons he used the measures he had taken. If we have reasonable doubts about individual steps, possible individual excesses, we are each of the excesses described in the media, we were investigating each of them. In fact, some of them today, the investigation, are supervised by the prosecutors, as you rightly said, and it saves the General Inspectorate of the Security Corps. I'm predictable that if there's any problem, I'm asking the public, I'm asking you, I'm asking the senators to be patient so we can investigate the matter. I acted the same way when there was a problem in Vrbetice, I acted the same way when there was a problem in Uhersky Brod. I acted the same way when there was a media debate and a political debate about whether cops with hoods, those alleged cops with hoods, attacked leftist activists. And always after the examination and the investigation, I came and brought the evidence and the facts that we were able to find, and we were able to answer the public's question whether or not the suspicions were justified. I just don't think there's any other way to do it. We can't be prosecutors and judges in relation to those cops. They too have the right to defend themselves, even they have the right to bring evidence to their advantage. And at the end, when it's investigated, and the investigation can't be long, and here we did it very quickly, then fall to whom? I don't want to blindly defend the police, but I'm saying again, we can't put 50,000 people in one bag if one or two cops fail. It's just not possible. We're making the psychics in society worse. I would ask you very much, Mr President, to sit down with me, and come tell me which particular excesses you still want to explain, which we have not described in this report. And I guarantee you that every one of them you show me specifically will be described and in the following report I will give it to all Members and Senators. Same as always.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u23	I thank the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanc and Mrs Černochová and Mr Kalousek are once again enrolled. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u24	Thank you, Madam Vice-President. I think it would surprise everyone present in the hall if the representatives of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia did not appear in this way. It was said here from me and from my previous speakers that the reminiscence in us for the past days is obvious. And that's why I'm not even offended by what Mr. Kováčik here said. Maybe I could just correct it by saying that none of us are really interested in checking out specific things that are in some kind of investigation. That is only when the information from the Director of the General Inspectorate of the Security Corps that this investigation is over can be dealt with by a permanent GIBS inspection committee. My priority is that I really don't remember a similar scope of action. And as I say, I've been in municipal politics for 18 years in the center of Prague. I've seen all these demonstrations. Through Vice-President Mr. Kováčik, I have a five-pound matrix in my office that has arrived on the helmet of one of the commanding officers on the Nusel Bridge from Italian comrades, your friends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u25	Now, Prime Minister Kalousek. Then Mr. President of the KSČM Kováčik Club. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor. And I beg the peace of the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u26	Thank you for the floor. I'm sorry, I didn't want to get off, but I didn't want the Minister's appeal to be very restrained before it all was examined, and he provoked me to get off and say that I would probably still understand this appeal if the Minister had this same meter, even with regard to honours and rewards. Minister, on the one hand, you say yes, let's wait until it's all investigated, I don't want to judge and punish anyone before it's black and white. Though I think some things were so obvious that I don't see any reason to investigate anything there, we've all just seen that and with us the whole public, but please, the Bureau must be. And on the other hand, you honor, you make a proposal to the government, the government of the President of the Republic, two high-level police officers involved in this trial... I'll wait for the lady to talk to the secretary. [[She turns to the benches of ministers, where Minister Šlechtová is speaking with one of the Members.]] I'm not yelling at you, it really bothers me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u27	Mr. Chairman, you have the floor, I'll give you peace. You don't have to yell at anyone from the counter. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u28	Thank you. I didn't ask the lady to stop disturbing me if you could arrange the peace for me. You didn't do that, so I dared do it myself. Forgive me, Mr President. You two senior police officers, one general and one colonel, have proposed a promotion to general rank, which the government approved without waiting for the end of the investigation. You already know they didn't lose the flower. And on the other hand, you say, but we have to wait until the end of the investigation before we say if anyone's guilty. Do you understand how untrustworthy this is? Do you understand how we can't trust you? I don't want to judge them right now, but the commendation proposal is basically an arrogant mockery of the public and the rank of police because you're saying, no matter how he investigates, I know that these two people did it so well that I have no doubt. The point now is that we all doubt whether they listened so well to the President or so well to defend the rights of Czech citizens. And that doubt will remain in all of us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u29	That was Mr. Miroslav Kalousek. [[The Home Secretary is coming to the counter.]] Mr Pavel Kováčik and then Mr. Interior Minister. I must respect the time of registration of those who have priority rights, Minister. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u30	Just through you, Mr President, a brief response to Mrs Černochová and her constant wonder over the scope of these measures. The last comparable visit took place here over five years ago. The real danger of radicals from the Islamic State has been mentioned for about three years. Terrorist attacks in various cities and locations, whether in Europe or elsewhere, are also less than five years old with the exception of Africa and also on 9/11. So these measures have responded to these risks. But, you know, I feel like this isn't really about the measure and the individual excesses, maybe. This is about the political problem of the right with China. Because if it was any of the other major statesmen in the world, nothing would happen. But since there is a link to China, to your views on the questions of Tibet and the posting of Tibetan flags anywhere, I simply understand and understand that this matter is raising you up in such a way, as they say, from chairs, that the same or even weaker measures in the case of a visit by, for example, President Obama would leave you with absolutely cold measures and measures or interventions that you now call excesses would not deserve to be noticed at all. That makes me think that's why we've been dealing with this situation for some time now. I would like to reiterate at this point that the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia will not support the extraordinary meeting until the investigation of all the submissions submitted in this context is completed. And only then, when we receive the final report, if the subject is still interesting, will we decide whether it is worth dealing with this matter in the Chamber of Deputies or whether we prefer other priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u31	Thank you to President Kováčik. Now, Mr. Home Secretary. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u32	I really did very briefly ask my esteemed colleague Kalousek by your help. Yes, Mr President, I have no doubt that Tomáš Tuhý or Colonel Komorous would fail. Those are the top-ranking police officers who were in charge of the hit with the strike commander. And I didn't find out by investigating or investigating that was done... There is no indication that there is a political assignment that these gentlemen are in any way influenced by any politician, whether it was the President or the Minister of the Interior. They defended law and law. And I have no suspicion that they are the cause of anything that would change my mind, which is long-term, it is not news now to change my mind that these people are supposed to promote themselves, that they deserve it. General Tuhý is the highest-ranking police officer in the country, and he should have the highest rank from my point of view, in addition to the fact that he deserves it. I also suggested that General Ryba be promoted to be the highest-ranking firefighter in the hierarchy of firefighters. And from my point of view, Mr. Komorous deserves an excellent promotion, both in the protection service and at a time when he fought some of the worst criminals, and these are distributors, dealers and drug producers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u33	Thank you, Minister. I don't have an application with priority rights, so I can continue with the agenda. We will vote on the agenda in the way that it cannot be changed, as Mr Gazdík said at that time. I'll summon you. I'll sign you all out, ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We shall decide pursuant to § 54 para. 7 on the agenda of the meeting convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies on a proposal from Members. Calm down, please. The number of entries has stabilized. I will begin voting number two and ask who is in favour of the approval of the agenda. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 2 of the present 125 for 40, against 66. The motion was not accepted. The meeting cannot therefore take place. I conclude with the fact that before the lunch break is announced and the previous meeting continues, I will give the floor to the Chairman of the TOP 09.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am to a large extent sympathetic to this vote. Members of the government coalition are just as aware of the injustices that have been committed here, and they simply do not want this to be mentioned. First of all. And two. It's to some extent significant. Like none of us, there is any doubt that from 28 to 30 March there was no equality before the law by the Police of the Czech Republic, as well as you refused to give equality before the law to all Members of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic. No doubt each and every one of us had the right to comment on this. You decided that only those with priority rights were allowed to speak. And as one of those who have that priority right, I apologize to all the other colleagues, because I wanted you to be able to talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u35	So that was Chairman TOP 09. Now Deputy Chairman of the ODS Club, Mrs. Černochová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u36	I think we have unfortunately reached the stage that the members of the government coalition are blocking any effort we have to discuss these matters and discuss them without the risk of actually attacking us from obstruction. No one intended that. The meeting would be over at one o'clock, except for more speakers to take over. But I might want to stand up for myself, or modify President Kalousek's statement. Not all members of the government coalition supported the inclusion of this item on the agenda. From this point, I would like to thank the representatives of the KDU-ČSL who supported the proposal for this meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u37	Then the chairman of the club KSČM. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u38	When two do the same, it's not always the same. I would understand that my colleague Kalousek was given the floor because he began to report before the end of the meeting began. The rest of us already think we should be at lunch, so I wish everyone a good meal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-21-ps2013-045-01-000-000.u39	Thank you. Mr President, I must clarify that, of course, I have concluded the 45th meeting, but I still have to fulfil my obligation under the Rules of Procedure - to apologise to Minister Šlechtová, who apologizes for the afternoon meeting of the 44th meeting, to apologize to Mr Šarapatka, because this apology has not been read, and to say that at the continuing 44th meeting, which will begin at 14.30, we will be dealing with oral interpelations. Thank you. Enjoy your meal.
