ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-005-063.u1	63. Government bill amending Act No. 110/1997 Coll., on food and tobacco products and on the amendment and addition of certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 687/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-005-063.u2	Good evening. Mr President, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce a government bill amending Act No. 110/1997 Coll., on food and tobacco products and on the amendment and addition of certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws. The main objective of the bill is to increase consumer health protection and to improve its awareness. As regards tobacco products and products related to tobacco products, this objective will be achieved through the transposition of Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products and repealing Directive 2001/37/EC, hereinafter referred to as the Tobacco Directive. The transposition of the tobacco directive is the biggest change in tobacco products and electronic cigarettes since the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union. Its main principles are as follows: Expansion of the subject matter of legislation other than tobacco products also to electronic cigarettes, refills in them and herbal products intended for smoking. The obligation to indicate cigarettes intended for smoking, tobacco intended for manual packaging of cigarettes and tobacco intended for a water pipe with a combined health warning is a health warning consisting of a combination of a text warning and a corresponding photograph or image, and is accompanied by information relating to smoking cessation. Prohibition on the placing on the market of cigarettes and tobacco for the hand-packing of flavored cigarettes. Furthermore, the tobacco product must not contain, for example, vitamins, caffeine, additives to facilitate the inhalation of nicotine or prohibited elements and features. Establishment of conditions for the cross-border sale of tobacco products, electronic cigarettes and spare charges for them at a distance, including registration obligations. The obligation of manufacturers, importers and distributors of tobacco products to record the receipt of all unit packages in their possession, as well as any movement within their possession and the final exit of the unit packages from their possession, for the purpose of traceability of those products. The designation of the conditions for placing on the market and refilling electronic cigarettes, herbal products intended for smoking and so-called new tobacco products is products which do not fall under any of the existing categories of tobacco products and have been placed on the market after 19 May 2014. Requirements for the appearance, characteristics, content, composition and marketing of tobacco products to be laid down in implementing legislation. In addition to the transposition of the tobacco directive, certain provisions relating to foodstuffs are also amended: In particular, it is for example a specification of the information requirements for unpacked foods, such as the designation of the country of origin, that must be placed in close proximity to the food offered. Obligation to state the name, name or business name and address of the alcoholic beverage manufacturer with an alcoholic strength exceeding 20 per cent. Prohibition of use of foodstuffs with expired expiry date or minimum durability for further production. Determination of the regulatory framework for food labelling by Czech food and produced in the Czech Republic and graphical representation in the form of a logo mentioned in implementing legislation, even in any other provision of information with the same meaning, in particular word, picture or graphic, means through the flag, map, graphic symbol, etc., indicating that the food was produced in the Czech Republic or that the country of origin of the food is the Czech Republic. The creation of a special scheme to distribute free of charge to charitable and humanitarian food organisations which do not fully meet certain requirements of food law but are still safe. The competence of the Ministry of Agriculture to ensure a system of administrative assistance and cooperation for the notification of direct or indirect risk to human health arising from food and coordination of the activities of the participating administrations, supervisory authorities and other participating organisations. The proposed legislation includes a related amendment to the Act on State Agricultural and Food Inspection. Following the transposition of the tobacco directive, the laws on the regulation of advertising, the operation of radio and television broadcasting in audiovisual media services on request are also amended. The application of the Act is proposed for 20 May 2016 in accordance with the transposition period laid down by the Tobacco Directive. The entry into force of certain provisions, such as rules for the designation of Czech food, is postponed to 1 January 2017. A transitional period is proposed for the sale of cigarettes and tobacco intended for packaging cigarettes for a period of three months from the entry into force of the Act and a transitional period for the sale of other tobacco products and electronic cigarettes for a period of one year from the entry into force of the Act. In view of the aforementioned transposition deadline laid down by the Tobacco Directive by 20 May 2016, I would like to ask for the possibility of a short hearing in the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies for 30 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-005-063.u3	I thank the Minister. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Pavel Kováčik. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-005-063.u4	Thank you for the floor. Madames and gentlemen, the Minister has communicated all the essential details that had to be communicated, so I will not repeat them. I just want to point out that we farmers have been working conceptually and prospectively and that there has been a seminar on this topic in recent weeks at the Chamber of Deputies, where everyone who has been or will be affected by this law has had a chance to comment very closely on this. There's been a certain, I'd say, a good match. That's the first thing. Second thing. Since this concerns tobacco producers, it is good there, even in terms of the deadlines and deadlines that are given, if it comes into effect on 20 May, to reduce the time limit for discussion and to allow sufficient time for producers to switch to new conditions. That means at least those three months are needed to give that space. I personally support this bill as rapporteur, including its commandments to the agricultural committee, because it certainly belongs there, including shortening the deadline as proposed by the Minister. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-005-063.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate in which I do not register any application. So, first of all, Mr Herbert Pavera, then Mr Petr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-005-063.u6	Nice and pleasant late afternoon or good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, let me tell you a few things about the bill amending Act No. 110/1997 Coll., on Food and Tobacco Products. The minister here actually said all the important things. I would just like to say that the aim of the amendment, among other things, is to ugly the smokers of their habit. I also have the pictures presented at the work meeting that was at the beginning of this year, which was discussed by the rapporteur, Mr Kováčik, and I do not think that any pictures or inscriptions on cigarettes would somehow reduce the consumption of cigarettes and reduce the number of smokers. I think we should go a whole different way, prevention, family, etc. or, despite that, as we talked to our colleagues, to sell cigarettes only in specialized stores, etc. But the pictures on the cigarettes don't bring any... Whoever smokes doesn't care what it's drawn there, he doesn't even notice. As far as food is concerned, of course, I would like to say here that I welcome the fact that there is actually a name for Czech food, when the food is purely Czech, which I think is good that it has been introduced. What complicates my life a little bit and complicates it for consumers is that a new brand of Czech food or inscription is being created again made in the Czech Republic, which will be a little bit with other brands such as Klasa, Regional Food, Czech Product, Czech Quality etc. A little trouble for consumers. I think it would be good if the Department of Agriculture worked a little hard to get some of these names canceled, because I think they're unnecessary and redundant. As far as actually donating food that ends its shelf life, I think it's also a good thing to get it into the law, very acceptable, and we certainly support it. Section 16 provides for certain obligations for the Regional Hygiene Station, the State Veterinary Administration and the State Agricultural and Food Inspection. I just hope that the competences of the individual institutions are discussed between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health, so that there are no unnecessary problems and pulls. Here it is proposed to shorten the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days. I have to say, of course, if there's a match, I'm sure there is. Although it is a law that is quite extensive and there are quite a lot of changes, we will not propose vetoes, but I think it is again a demonstration of how the government is not prosecuting the laws, because, in fact, 20 May, this law should implement the directive of the European Union. So, as they say, it's almost a minute 12 and not five minutes 12, maybe it's almost - well, we don't think it's because it's only time, and hopefully it'll be okay without any problems. So much so, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-005-063.u7	Thank you, Mr Paver. Another duly registered member is Mr Petr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Then, with priority rights, the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-005-063.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, Minister, I do not know how many people are in the hall who have at least seen the law, let alone read it. Indeed, he is quite extensive and the petitioners admit that the implementation of EU legislation will only increase. There'll be more red tape in this area. Users of tobacco products will pay more money in the future, it is calculated that it will bring 2 percent more to the state budget, it is also necessary to say here. That law aside from the fact that it is related to such repulsive images etc., it is probably what the customer will see most, so it also brings... or in that law there are some offered variant solutions. So I wonder if the Minister could comment on the options and say which alternative solution he recommends because he knows what I'm talking about. As regards the further use of food, or respectively. Like this. The law further focuses competence on food inspection, which I think is correct. You have it in the coalition agreement, but we've dealt with this dispute with colleague Heger in the past. It's not possible to stay halfway. I think it would be a good idea for the State Agricultural and Food Inspection in accordance with what is written in that law, this part of the law is I think right that the State Agricultural and Food Inspection will have a better chance of control, we will remove some duplications in the future, etc., that is something we wish for. However, I say again, there are alternative solutions to the next procedure, because European Union law gives us some options. One option concerns further labelling of tobacco products in the field of cigars and cigarillos, so I would like to know how the Ministry of Agriculture stands up for this and which of these options will actually support in the Committee on Agriculture. In addition, the use of food which has an end-of-use and consumption potential. I think the title is correct. Let's use the food that they already are, their expiration time is on the edge. But the way they distribute, the way they're being used, the way they're being used, and the way they're being used, I think it's under control, and the Minister of Agriculture, when he's proposing it, should say something about the measures as well, how this will be watched over for subsequent use, because we have to keep an eye on it so that we don't get food like that back on the market. Who guards that it really went to consumption, possibly to their disposal etc. That is not an entirely simple question, and I would therefore like to ask whether the Minister would say anything about it. Otherwise, we will not propose any rejection or re-advising to the minister or government to deal with it. There will certainly be a debate on the agricultural committee, and I do not think it will be completely simple, however easy it seems. My colleague was still talking about the Czech food label. I think it deserves a deeper discussion, too, and I don't think it's supposed to take place here at first reading, but certainly on the agricultural committee in any case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-005-063.u9	I thank Mr Bendl. Now with priority rights, the Minister. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-005-063.u10	Thank you. I would like to thank my colleagues for the substantive comments and for the substantive debate. A few things. More or less, the whole tobacco part is a mandatory transposition. There aren't many options to choose from. However, I would like to make two points. As for the marking and printing of those images, when it comes to cigars, we will not use that option there, we will not apply these pictures there after discussions on how it would be implemented in practice, because these packages are really very specific, unlike cigarettes, with the fact that, at a time when it will be discussed in committees or in committee, we will also add to this the draft decree which specifies some things because they are not all contained in the law. I think it's fair to put this proposal on the table. As for the comments on Czech food, I would like to say that the designation will be voluntary. It is not a brand that we would market newly. The marking's been here for years. It is used by the Food Chamber and many manufacturers use this brand. That's why we've decided not to create a whole new product, to take advantage of the fact that the brand is here, just to give it clear rules that we're going to get into legislation. Of course, when it comes to food that could be used for charity purposes, the food will not be abandoned by a chain of control bodies. More or less, if I simplify this for example, it will be food that, for example, within the label, either there will be some damage, or there will be some error, which does not affect the health disability of this food, and it will still be under the supervision of the supervisory authorities. Here we came rather to the non-governmental sector and social organisations to make this, let's say, logical possibility possible. So about that many few comments. Thank you. I would also like to ask - I am sorry, I would also ask that the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies be satisfied, so I hereby ask and make a motion to shorten the procedure of this amendment to 30 days in the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-005-063.u11	I thank the Minister and note the motion to shorten the time limit for discussion. Another duly registered member is Mr Jiří Koskuba. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-005-063.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll make a comment from a simple consumer. I'm supposed to have a personal interest in things. This law is based on the orders of Brussels, which means we can hardly do anything about it. But on the other hand, it also applies to tobacco products. And the tobacco products, as the Minister has said, are really not just cigarettes. I myself agree with the previous speakers - and we can see this in Arab countries - that the images do not therefore lead to tobacco consumption. [[decreased]] Even different bans and orders do not lead to this. But that's the second thing. As long as these products are sold by states and are increasingly burdened by larger and larger taxes, it will not provide a solution for people to stop smoking. However, every consumer may have the same rights. We're going the quaint way where a number of foods are about to issue something like a program at the theater, even today in action. To find out what all the food contains. Because we've decided that the customer has the right to all information. It will seem rather petty to you, but they exist when you discuss it in committees, as well as cigar tobacco. And there quite a lot depends on what this product is composed of. I'm not gonna lecture you here about how pipe tobacco is made. Just a little thing: While Amfora used to sell herself, before we got freedom, for 12 crowns, today is 295. And it's gonna cost more. That means you can see how much that customer is paying us. And he may have the right to know what the product contains. Just like a roll. Unfortunately, I have already turned to the Minister of Trade and Industry, who quite helpfully replied with the fact that the solution is difficult. But when you look at this product as non-smokers, the content of this product is now glued with our gluten, which only - quite hypocritically from my point of view - we apologize for continuing to sell it at a higher and higher price. When you discuss this law, which I am not very inclined to for this reason, I apologize to the government for that, but I know it must come up with it, please consider whether all customers have the same right. And I ask, through both the President and the Minister, that he may, as a non-smoking person, look at products such as cigars and pipe tobacco, which actually have data from the manufacturer, which we are already covering up. And so for more and more money, we force a customer to actually buy something that he doesn't know anything about. If we do not give a brochure, we can also mislead these customers. I would like them to go to the state budget, not health care, for the money they pay so willingly or reluctantly for their vices, so that they have valid information. Unfortunately, it is glued by the fact that smoking is harmful to health. I can present the evidence. It's a little something, but it matters to me personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-005-063.u13	I thank Mr Koskuba. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If no one is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I am asking the final words of the appellant or rapporteur. Not interested. I do not see a motion for a rebuttal or rejection of the proposed proposal. Now, then, we will consider the motion on the commandment of the committee for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Agricultural Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone else have a motion for a warranty to the guarantee committee? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the commandment to discuss the agricultural committee as a committee of guarantee. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote 92. 149 Members and Members are registered, for 134, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been directed to the agricultural committee as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? It's not like that. The last vote to be dealt with is the proposal made by the Minister, which is a reduction in the time limit for discussion to 30 days. [[Some Members have heard "over 30 days" and point to this.]] For 30 days, I'm sorry if I... So we're going to shorten the deadline to 30 days. I am taking a vote to shorten the time limit. Whoever is to shorten the deadline to 30 days, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 93. 149 Members and Members are registered. For 120, versus 6. This proposal has also been adopted. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur and end the first reading of this bill. The next item is the item number
