ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u1	23. Government bill amending Act No. 95/2004 Coll., on conditions for obtaining and recognising professional qualifications and specialised qualifications for the exercise of the medical profession of a doctor, dentist and pharmacist, as amended /house print 723/ - second reading I will ask Minister Svatopluk Němeček, Minister of Health, to present the proposal. Before I give him my word, I will ask that Mr David Kasal, who is the rapporteur of the press, take his seat at the rapporteur's table. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] Minister, I still won't give you my word. I insist that the House calm down. If you're having a discussion other than open point 23, please be in the foyer. Or I'll call a break. Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to mention the discussion of a government bill amending Act No. 95/2004 Coll., on the conditions for obtaining and recognising professional competence and specialised competence for the exercise of the medical profession of a doctor, dentist and pharmacist, as part of his second reading. I would like to begin by stressing once again that the proposed draft law aims, above all, to stabilise and improve the system of specialisation education and education in the superstructure fields of doctors, dentists and pharmacists, since the current setting of the education system has been assessed as one of the reasons for leaving, in particular, fresh graduates to other countries where the conditions for participants in education are more favourable, such as shorter length of specialisation education. The content of the proposal was discussed in detail at first reading. So I will not recapitulate all the changes it brings. However, I would like to return to one of the most discussed topics that has been employed by the Health Committee, which is the field of practical medicine for children and adolescents. First of all, I am forced to reiterate that this is not the abolition of the field of practical medicine for children and adolescents, as discussed in the media in particular. This field will be associated with the field of pediatrics and will be created one common educational programme of pediatrics for both doctors in hospitals and ambulances. The Institute of the Registring Provider of Health Services, as regulated by the Health Services Act, is maintained. Thus, outpatient care for our children will not change anything for parents. Already today, a doctor in specialization training in the field of practical medicine for children and adolescents has completed three years in children's beds and one year of practice in the facilities of a practical doctor. Of the more than 2,000 practical physicians for children and adolescents in the Czech Republic, only about 200 ambulances of practitioners are accredited for specialization education. In this way, practice is not adequately ensured in the field of practical medicine or for doctors in specialised training in the basic field of practical medicine for children and adolescents, even through the provision of a grant for a residential place. On this subject, I would also like to point out that doctors who work today in the practical doctor's office for children and adolescents have completed an earlier degree of education when there was a single pediatrician. Finally, I would like to mention that the Committee on Health, which has discussed the proposal, adopted a resolution on it which recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to agree to this government proposal, as amended by the comprehensive amendment adopted by it, which does not, however, make the original proposal a fundamental but rather partial way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u3	I thank the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček and I note that we ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Health as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered to you as House prints 723/1-3. That is why I am now asking the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mr David Kasal, to inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and to justify any amendments. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Government, honourable Members, allow me to introduce you to the resolution of the Health Committee of the 39th meeting of 7 September 2016 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 95/2004 Coll., on the conditions for obtaining and recognising professional qualifications and specialised qualifications for the pursuit of the medical profession of a doctor, dentist and pharmacist, as amended, House printing 723. Following the introductory words of Dr Radek Policar, Deputy Minister of Health for Legislation and Law, and the report by Mr David Kasal and following the debate by the Committee on Health I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to the Government Bill amending Act No. 95/2014 Coll., on the conditions for obtaining and recognising professional qualifications and specialised qualifications for the pursuit of the medical profession of a doctor, dentist and pharmacist, as amended, House printing 723, as amended by the accepted comprehensive amendment; II. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies at the beginning of the second reading debate that a comprehensive amendment contained in the committee resolution should be taken as the basis for further discussion; III. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report on the results of this draft law at the meeting of the Health Committee at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies; IV. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the legislative department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adaptations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u5	I thank the rapporteur for the intelligence report. Before I open the debate - colleague Hnyková, who was excused within 16 hours, cancels her apology from 14.20 when she arrived. We're good to go. I am opening a general debate and I have several applications. Mr Leoš Heger came forward first, followed by a proper application from the rapporteur David Kasal and other colleagues. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good afternoon. Let me say a few words in general first and then introduce some other amendments. Preparation of the amendment to Act No. 95/2004 Coll., took almost two years and those years were accompanied by very effective, albeit long discussions, which ultimately resulted in the submission of a comprehensive amendment to the already appointed Members. And I have to say for myself that I largely agree with the proposal, and I think that it broke the biggest thorns, although not all of them, but still many of the very essential ones. I believe that, as the TOP 09 and the Mayors, we will finally be able to vote in favour of this law, although perhaps somewhere, opinions will still differ a little bit. I have applied eight amendments to the Health Committee, which were more about minor amendments to the law, not the most important ones that represent the structure of the fields that are coming into the law, and from it it is necessary to have great respect and to establish it well and long-term. And that looks very good so far. Other proposals concerned some things more minor. And since the vast majority, or completely unisono, were overvoted in the committee, I took the liberty of slightly adapting one of these proposals and presenting it again. One of the only eight I'm presenting once more with a supplemented argument and one is new. And I would like to imagine them briefly. The first proposal concerns functional courses which are part of the comprehensive amendment. I took the liberty of doing so in § 21i. 3 add one piece of information, which was drawn to the Czech Stomatological Chamber. This knowledge relates to discussing the way in which functional courses are introduced into the course register. For dentists, especially and in some rarer cases, there is a situation that functional courses can be organized for doctors with professional qualifications, not specialized but professional, because dentists can work independently with this competence after graduating after some short practice. And there it is that in the standard procedure proposed in § 21i, the Ministry requires an assessment of the accreditation commission before the decision is made. For professional competence, the accreditation board is not set up, and I therefore suggest that in such a case, the Ministry should have the power to ask the relevant professional chamber, in this case dental, for an opinion instead of the accreditation committee. That's pretty much all there is to this proposal. The next proposal concerns the co-operation of education. There has been a rather controversial discussion about whether to allow a little beyond the European Education Directive in our environment after graduating from the expert tribe the possibility of studying superstructure over the trunk for two specialization fields at once. I was very opposed, but a number of colleagues and colleagues did not have a problem with this, so this version that parallel fields will be passed in a comprehensive amendment. And I took the liberty of tightening up the employment conditions under which this regime could be permitted. These conditions consist in particular in the fact that a doctor would have to work full-time. Because otherwise he can only be educated in the specialization education part-time, and even in some cases relating to maternity or paternity leave, he could be educated on time 0.2. I think that the two specializations will be such a challenging study that they should only be limited to full-time. It will probably cover just a few very few individuals, though capable. But acquiring experience in specialization studies is not only in theoretical knowledge, but in acquiring skills in individual performances and also in particular in gaining experience and they must be acquired over a large number of patients. The third amendment concerns the control activity of the Ministry of Health. The Ministry agreed within the framework of a comprehensive amendment to extend control powers to the accreditation commission if the Minister agreed to do so. And I suggest that this authorisation should also apply to representatives of the responsible designated organisations that organise education. So many of my three amendments and I will sign up to them in a detailed debate by the figures in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u7	I thank Mr Leoš Heger and now, with proper application, Mr David Kasal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. My colleague Pastuchová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, let me also, at first of all, make a general statement on the overall proposal and on it subsequently following the amendments that I am coming to you with and which I will then read in a detailed debate. The basic and main change in why this law was actually amended is the resolution of the requirement to reduce the originally high number of basic disciplines - those were 96. There are 43 of them in the amendment, and it is also important that they are recorded directly in the law itself. It was based on compatibility from the European Directive 2005/36/EC, which clearly sets out what fields are compatible across Europe, and it is important for the education and application of our doctors abroad. The current anchoring of fundamental fields directly in the law will contribute to the stability and clarity of the whole system. Together with the reduction in the number of basic disciplines, a rational reduction in the time of education of most disciplines has also been taken into account in the continued feminisation of health care, which makes health problems even more pronounced. An extremely important part of the changes is also the simplification and efficiency of the accreditation system, which is served by newly established educational councils of doctors and the mutual representation of experts in newly composed accreditation committees, in which both faculties, the medical chamber and the ministry participate on the proposal of professional companies. They will be responsible for the development of the field as a whole and not just close groups of experts. Now, to some of the other changes that the law brings. The length of education in the basic tribe will be extended to 30 months and will be completed by examination, as was the case in the former system of first and second degrees of certification. After passing the test, doctors will have the appropriate competence to work on the device. An important change that will reflect the feminisation already mentioned will be to enable the education of persons on parental leave, where their scope of working time must correspond to a period of 0.2. [[14.40 hours]] The proposal also includes clarification of the activities of doctors with professional specialization and professional competence in relation to institutes of professional supervision and supervision, i.e. to allow doctors who are after the faculty to enter the hospital, to participate in the operation of the facility, to be included in the services, and also those who are somehow watching over them and training them, so that it is not a slave for them, because a number of trainers in smaller hospitals themselves serve five to a month and to do so provide the services of these doctors in the service, so from this point of view it is very important to focus on this too. I would also like to mention a little bit about the problem with practical doctors for children and adolescents.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u9	My colleague, I will interrupt you once again and ask the House again for peace. This is a general and detailed debate in second reading, and I would like us to respect each other and listen to each other. If you're discussing something else, please be in the foyer. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u10	Just two arguments about this business. Surely you've all heard arguments about that branch of PLDD, respectively. the integration of pediatrics into one field will result in the abolition of PLDDs as such and the abolition of practical physicians. After all, I didn't just get many alarm e-mails, but I think you got them on your e-mail addresses, too. I want to make it clear here that we are talking about the law on doctor education. This is not and we are not talking about the structure of education care. However, to be completely clear and to dispel your concerns, both your colleagues and your doctors, after consulting the Ministry of Health, I will initiate the adoption of a law, which has also been called upon by colleagues of practical physicians for children and adolescents, the Child Care Act and the mother who will capture the structure of care in our Republic, i.e. both primary care, which is an integral part of caring for our children, hospital care and care in specialized offices. What's written that we're gonna put patients in hospitals, I can tell you with a calm heart that if it really should happen, those hospitals are doing just fine at the moment, so it's not true, and I'm offering a helping hand to solve this problem. But the important thing is that the change corresponds to the spirit of the entire law. In the whole of the law, it is about simplifying and embezzlementing and permanence of individual disciplines. At present, doctors from hospitals cannot work in the field, they cannot work in an ambulance. Interestingly, however, if a physician needs to choose a vacation for children and adolescents, he is also suitable for doctors from the department who have neither tribe, i.e. maybe they have a year of practice. On the contrary, the practical physician for children and adolescents cannot work separately in the hospital according to applicable legislation, which is a big problem in ensuring e.g. Emergency services in hospitals, taking care of our patients in the middle of the night. In conclusion, because I think there are always important numbers. These are numbers that are obtained from IPVZ. As doctors perform and represent 2,000 practitioners of practices for children and adolescents, so to date, 13. 9., 224 doctors were trained according to the new 2004 scheme. All the others until the two thousand were trained according to an old system, where there was one certificate that authorized doctors to serve in the field and at the same time justified that they could work in hospitals as secondary doctors. Here I think it's very clear how many doctors are being spoken for at the moment. Because it's a huge number of doctors who are trained according to the old system that provide the care for our children, which is the most expensive thing for us. I'm gonna touch the functional courses a little bit more. Functional courses are an important part of the curriculum and their reintegration into the system of education was due to the fact that they have two main meanings. We wanted to address the issue of review doctors and the revision itself, because it is very limping. After the negotiations that took place during the month of August, we came to the consensus of further education and deepening the education of these doctors so that we could, on the contrary, allow the opening of this field, for example. for women on maternity leave or for colleagues who have some kind of disability and can no longer work full-time to participate in this education. This is the first part of why functional courses have been re-established. The second part is that, of course, medicine is evolving and it is important to introduce innovations into a given field. In that case, we have these functional courses available, which is why their length has been reduced to one to six months and it is clearly delegated that this functional course will gain competence and experience, but it does not incur the costs of the health system, i.e. that the concerns that a narrow group of professors will take a working course on their right or left foot and then demand it from the insurance company, so that is in no way the intention of the proposals submitted. From this point of view, I would now touch on the various amendments that I come to you with at second reading. I would also like to mention changes concerning the field of pharmaceuticals and the area of obtaining specialised competence in the superstructure of hospital pharmacies. Although this change has been rejected by the committee, I would like to reload it. The reasoning is simple. The proposed change should improve the possibility and broaden the possibility of other pharmacists to become actually a leading physician in hospitals and other establishments to do so. Another amendment which addresses functional courses, as I mentioned earlier, and the purpose of this amendment will be to deepen knowledge and skills, cannot replace the acquisition of qualifications, as the second sentence of Section 21i (2) of the proposed text rightly states. 1 proposal. However, according to the first sentence, health professionals are required to qualify for the activities listed in the relevant training programme by completing the course. The acquisition of competence, however, is not a deepening of it. The first sentence thus contradicts the sentence of the second provision in question and the declared purpose of the proposed Institute of Functional Courses. The dispute must therefore be eliminated. I therefore propose that the first sentence of the proposed text be deleted without compensation. The change should then be reflected in § 21j para. 4. Different durations of functional courses for doctors and other health professionals are not justified from this point of view. An important factor, which I also mentioned, is supervision and supervision of doctors who are not yet qualified. The proposal for this amendment is justified by specifying the activities of a doctor with competence in relation to the institutes of professional supervision and supervision, so that the individual skills and knowledge of individual trainees can be taken into account in the course of specialisation education. Of course, we have tutors who are very capable, and they have prepared more in the framework of undergraduate education, and they are, of course, a trainee who will not be sufficient even for the time that would justify them to serve and work independently. [[14.50 hours]] It will therefore be up to the trainer to determine which activities his trainee is already able to perform only under professional supervision, not just professional supervision. At the same time, this treatment may lead to a lower burden on doctors with specialised competence, who must now supervise doctors with professional competence, even in cases where it is not really needed. Furthermore, contrary to a comprehensive amendment which allowed for the conduct of review activities of doctors with professional competence only under professional supervision or supervision, this amendment will allow the revision of the activities of doctors with professional competence who have a certificate of completion of the basic strain without professional supervision. Pursuant to the practice of health insurance companies, the exercise of supervision would not always be fulfilled. Moreover, due to the activities carried out by reviewers, the supervision of a physician with neither practice nor justification is justified. As regards the exercise of professional supervision, it is not required in this case to be carried out by a doctor with specialised competence in the relevant field but in any case for the same reasons. With regard to the penultimate amendment, which is a matter that will come out and help the pediatricians, whom I hope all pediatric workers will welcome, because feminisation in the field of pediatrics is close to 90 to 95 percent, it is basically to supplement the provision that, if such a doctor has a child in her care, it is meant that he will give birth to it, so that, in fact, what he has learned, including, for example, a lactation clinic, including the detection of infections in young children and infants, is to be counted against a certain period of time that he will take care of these children, into their education. The purpose is therefore to contribute to a better reconciliation of the professional and family life of doctors in specialization education in the fields of pediatrics. And the last thing is very short. This is a confirmation of courses where there is a minor change in Article two, when in point 6 in the second sentence the words "and issues a certificate of completion of the course' are added after the words "in the qualification course'. The reason is only to determine the person issuing the certificate of completion of the course. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u11	Thank you, Mr David Kasal. Before we go any further, I will state an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, from Mrs Ivana Dobešová. Mrs Pastuchová will now appear. Mr. Svoboda will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to clarify my amendment, which I will read subsequently, or to which I will sign up, sorry. The point is that occupational medicine should be included in the amendment to Law 95 because the maintenance of the field of occupational medicine in basic specialization medical fields is in most countries of the European Union. Work medicine as a field of primary prevention of damage from work is specific by being linked to the corporate sphere. It is the only field whose basis lies in the working environment, which is specific in its focus on the relationship between work and health, which is why it is perceived distorted. In addition to occupational services, it also provides diagnostics of occupational diseases under special legislation. Education in this field is not possible according to the International Health Commission at work as a certified course or superstructure for other fields as well as for a specific link to the employee sphere. This led the Council of the Government on Safety and Health at Work to adopt, in 2008, in the National Action Plan on Safety and Health at Work, measures to improve the State's supervision of the health of workers under Council Directive 89/391/EEC and the International Labour Organisation Convention. 161 classification of the field of occupational medicine as a basic specialised medical field. This solution continues to support not only all crucial international institutions, including European as well as academic circles, social affairs, social partners and employers. The Council of the Government on Safety and Health at Work again calls for the Health Department to maintain this field in the fields of fundamentals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u13	Thank you, Mrs Jana Pastuchová. Mr Bohuslav Svoboda will now appear. Mr. Jiří Štětina will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u14	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, too, to say a few words on the amendment to the Act on the acquisition of competence to pursue a medical profession. It's a law that's been on the table for a very long time. It's a law that's very necessary. It's a law with which we really have more than won in the Health Committee. I would like to thank, at this point, all the members of the Health Committee who have prepared a comprehensive amendment, because I believe that the comprehensive amendment has been given a form that is acceptable with certain reservations. For me, it remains subject to the issue of practical medicine for children and adolescents. I firmly believe that this is a specific field which, while not having such an inclusion throughout the European Union, is an inclusion that the rest of the European Union is envious of. Indeed, the option of self-serving this profession should ensure that practical doctors work well. That is why I have taken the liberty of re-submitting an amendment to this question for your assessment. I will then comment on it in detail in the debate. Otherwise, I must state that the final form of the bill is a form that we can support as an ODS club in its entirety. I would like to thank both the Minister and my colleague Kasal for the fact that all the things that have been problematic have been cleaned up at the level of the discussion in the Health Committee, and that this is the way that we should actually deal with all the laws, discuss it at the clubs, discuss it then on the committee and come here with an option that is already acceptable. Of course, there will be other amendments, but I think that the underlying media is so quality that we can speak for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u15	I thank Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. Before properly registered Jiří Štětina with a factual remark by Radim Holeček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to delay, I would just like to respond to my previous speaker, Bohouš Svoboda, to ask you to support his amendment. The proposal relates to the petition of the Initiative for the Conservation of the Field of Practical Paediatric Medicine. 104 364 petents joined the petition, and I think there is enough weight of criticism to maintain this field. On 26 April, a public hearing took place with the participation of petents, and there were also petents, as well as petitioners. I think we've reached some conclusions there. And I personally ask for the support of the amendment and for myself, because I was originally the co-author of the amendment, but somehow my name fell out in that parliamentary noise. So I still have to do it for myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u17	Thank you for the factual remark and the respect of time. We continue with the discussion and presentation of Mr Jiří Štětina. A colleague of Ludvík Hovorka will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u18	Hello. Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when we listened to the Minister's speech at first reading, I glowed with enthusiasm and I must say that I caressed the Minister's hair, even figuratively. Many days have passed since then, many amendments have been tabled. There have been some changes. I would like to comment on two things. First of all, it is the Institute for Further Education of Doctors, so-called IPVZ, in the past it was a basic education centre, one for doctors in Prague, the other was for middle medical staff in Brno, and I think the system was good. Now I will not talk about what the results were, whether the doctors were better or the nurses were better, or whether we were leaving more or less doctors abroad. Not at all. But I think that the teaching system, the method of testing, the certification of first and second degrees was absolutely clear and transparent. I am not satisfied, and I do not mean that I will not support this law, in any way, with § 2, where this institution is somehow not named and it is formulated in a vague way - it will be a legal person. I have a problem with that, because after 2006, and I fear that many people from this period are slowly and certainly going back to the Ministry of Health, it has been kind of recommended that IPVZ will not be and that it will be educated on the basis of some private organization - now I will not tell guessing who should be running it. I am still convinced that IPVZ should be formulated as an educational centre in the law. And now it doesn't matter if it's a contribution organization or if it's a generally beneficial society, but this formulation should be there. Unless, of course, there is an agreement, and unfortunately, it is a matter of coalition Members, so I will just accept it, but I will not be so enthusiastic for the Minister. The second thing is a matter of taxing the field. As I recall, I was talking here about the fact that I liked the original proposal for specialization disciplines, that there were significantly fewer of them and that I recommended that I be able to imagine working medicine. I still have to say that I never lobby for anyone, no one can convince me, no one can bribe me, no way, but I still consider occupational medicine a very important field. It is basically a field that combines both preventive medicine and curative medicine and administrative medicine. And, of course, I have dealt with many coalition MPs - they said: we have no problem with that. But he's just not on the new list. I can change my mind, and I will say it publicly and confess. In my first reading speech, I also said that I think there should be a pediatric one. I've changed my mind, I think that pediatrics, which is a hospital, can also be outpatient, so I'm changing my mind about that. I support a colleague here who spoke before me. And I don't think that if we were able to put so-called maxilofacial surgery on the list and not even mention children's medicine for children and youth as an outpatient component, then don't be mad at me, but I haven't done this medicine for a long time, just 52 years, but I still don't know, and I'd like someone to explain to me what maxilofacial surgery is, how many doctors do it, and if we're unable to deal with these injuries in faculty hospitals and other hospitals where we have specialized workplaces. These are my changes that I have come to, but of course I have to say what my colleagues have said here that it is good that this law is ready. And I'll be glad if this law is passed and passed so that we don't have to face the doctor's argument that because education is bad, they go abroad. They don't go there for education, they only go there for financial security. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u19	I thank Mr Jiří Štětin. Before we proceed with Mr Ludvík Hovorka's application, my colleague Pavel Plzák's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will respond to the previous speaker. There is a great lobbying for maintaining education in the field of practical physician for children and youth. It was said that we would have this outpatient component, although basically, a colleague will correct me, so 90 percent of what a pediatrician is doing in the field is the same as a pediatrician in a hospital, but imagine the example that we would separate an outpatient and a hospital file in every field. As a surgeon, I can say that in order to perform outpatient medical care in the field of outpatient surgery, all I have to do is treat the excision of some nevy, I'll never operate, I won't be in the hospital, and if I can narrow my education to what an outpatient surgeon is doing, I couldn't be in the hospital. Please, let's not do this. There's one child, there's one child's disease, and I think there's one pediatrician. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u21	Thank you, Mr. Plzák. And now we will continue with Mr Ludvík Hovorka's speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u22	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, this bill has been accompanied by great expectations that changes will be corrected in the education of doctors that took place in 2004. I dare say there is no such big correction. I would like to remind you of the legislative rules of the government, which say in Article 10 (1) of the Treaty. 5: The material by which the draft law is submitted to the Government and the Legislative Council shall include the presentation report and the draft implementing regulation, the draft government regulation or the draft decree or the application regulation if the draft law contains an authorisation to issue the implementing act and this implementing act is to take effect at the same time as the law and the text of the law or part thereof, as amended, indicating the proposed amendments, in so far as the draft amendment is concerned. The draft implementing regulation shall be submitted at this stage without discussion in the notice procedure and in the working committees. Of course, decrees at least in the form of the thesis are already submitted with a government version of the bill, i.e. by first reading. The purpose of this provision is to give us, as Members, an idea of what the proposed law will look like in practice. And, of course, if the Ministry of Health prepares a comprehensive amendment in cooperation with a few committee members, which in itself is a gross circumvention of legislative rules, such as losing the sense of the Institute of Commentary Procedure and reducing the importance of tripartite, implementing decrees and justifications should also be completed on a comprehensive amendment. To sum up the outcome of the legislative work, it can also be said - that the Ministry and Members have written after two years of arguing between the CEC, medical faculties, major professors, professional companies and a similar list of qualifications and specializations, but they do not even have the basic idea of the specific scope of the doctor's qualifications after obtaining them. [[15.10 hours]] For this reason, the law is imperfect. It is not even possible to estimate its impact on practice in gross terms. Of course, the Ministry is directly responsible for preparing the law. And because not in 12 years since Law No. 95/2004 Coll., failed to issue a decree on the activities of doctors, although it is his legal obligation. So from this point of view what was expected and what the professional public expects from this bill, this expectation will, of course, not be met. I can only say so much about the annex to the amendment, which, of course, is based on the Government's proposal, that the current 46 disciplines are now in the proposal for 43 specializations. And it was said at the beginning that there would be a major change and return before 2004. Angiology, occupational medicine, practical medicine for children and youth have merged into the field of pediatrics. And trauma and nuclear medicine merged into the field of radiology and imaging methods and increased maxillofacial surgery. In addition to the very problematic and debatable abolition of the field of practical medicine for children and adolescents, which may have a major impact on the provision of care for children and adolescents in the Czech Republic, an announced substantial reduction in the number of specialization fields has not occurred and none of these changes is explained in more detail. The elimination of the primary oncological strain is not explained, while two new strains, cardiosurgical and maxillophastically surgical, were added to the surgical strain, in addition to neurosurgical and orthopaedic. The basic strains should certainly not be seen as former first tests and their numbers should not be increased but reduced. Again, there is no explanation for this maneuver. For example, the introduction of the basic maxilofacial surgical strain and the maxilofacial field as a basic specialization industry makes no sense at all in the context of the amendment of the law and it is in a way special. Thus, although the comprehensive amendment fundamentally affects postgraduate education in the Czech Republic, there is no significant indication of improvement that it would improve the organisation and coordination of postgraduate education, which represents the most pressing problem of the current system, when we are beginning to lack doctors, and which doctors are calling for these changes. The need for a unified organization, coordination and administration of postgraduate education was clearly confirmed by the survey of the Czech Medical Chamber, where most doctors said that the performance of the test and the organisation of postgraduate education should be returned to the competence of the Institute for Doctors' Education. For this reason, I have taken the liberty of presenting several amendments, and one of the important amendments is, of course, the organisation of postgraduate doctoral education. I'll try to give you a short explanation. The Government's draft amendment to Act No. 95/2004 Coll. and even more his comprehensive amendment leads to the conclusion that it is not a reform in the education of doctors, dentists and pharmacists, but only cosmetic modifications. Only symbolic reduction of specialization disciplines from 46 to 43 now is sufficient for justification. At the same time, the reduction of disciplines and their firm anchoring in the law should have been one of the pillars of reform. At least this is how it was represented for two whole years when this proposal was being worked on. The biggest problem lies in the presented organisation of the entire postgraduate preparation. The law should clearly specify which body organises postgraduate training. Thus registering the trainee, their inclusion in the fields and the performance of the certification exams. The draft law leaves these fundamental questions to the executive decision of the Ministry, which is dangerous due to the frequent changes in the administration of the Ministry, as individual decisions can lead to the degradation of the system. The present system for the performance of examination tests at medical faculties on the principle of so-called The balanced rotation did not work because in practice the various fields or regional interests were applied and did not provide the Ministry of Health with the necessary information in time. The need for a single organization, coordination and administration of postgraduate education was clearly confirmed by a survey conducted by the Czech Medical Chamber, where the majority of doctors made clear their comments. In the explanatory report, there are 6 467 doctors, 61 percent of whom would entrust IPVZ to the organization of education, 19.9 percent to the medical faculties, 19 percent to the Czech Medical Chamber, and the response of the same number of doctors, of which 56.5 percent would entrust IPVZ, 30.8% to the medical faculties and less than 13 percent to the Czech Medical Chamber. Specialization education is an instrument whereby the state carries out its responsibility for the quality and safety of health care. The acquisition of specialised competence entitles a doctor to provide health care separately. The certificate is similar to a driving or pilot's licence, where the State takes over the guarantee that a particular person can operate independently and the citizens will not be harmed to their health. It is therefore the responsibility of the State to the citizens to whom the State will allow itself to perform health care. Therefore, the whole process of obtaining specialisation education must be managed in a uniform manner, be transparent, provide the state at any time with an up-to-date overview, while also being useful for those who seek specialised competence, as well as for those who are educated to do so. It is understandable for applicants to sign up for education in one place and to pass the final exam in the same place in the single scheme. It is therefore proposed by law to transfer competence to the fields and performance of testing and other examinations exclusively to a legal person established by the Ministry of Health, which is IPVZ. IPVZ is a contribution organisation which is set up to organise and administer postgraduate education and is therefore a state organisation through which the postgraduate education process is organised by the State. The proposal for amendments, of course, presents the full preservation of the competence of the Ministry of Health, i.e. its management, control, legislative, administrative and methodological activities. The Ministry of Health will obtain an immediate overview of the whole specialization preparation of doctors, dentists and pharmacists from one centre and the system of specialization education will be clear for users. At the same time, nothing changes with the appointment of the certification committees. The Minister for Health shall continue to appoint, in accordance with the provisions of Section 21, on the basis of proposals from universities, chambers, professional companies, accredited and educational establishments. Self-training will continue to take place in such a way that all delegated organisations, medical faculties and chambers under public administrative contracts and IPVZ and health service providers can obtain accreditation within the meaning of the provisions of Section 13 of the draft law and educate in the context of such accreditation. At the same time, all responsible organisations can perform the credits of practice in fulfilling the conditions of the educational programme, including the credit of practice in the field and foreign practice, as well as in higher education and doctoral studies. In short, medical faculties will be eased from the necessary administration in organising postgraduate training so that they can devote more to their own educational activities. So much for the justification of the amendment to entrust the organisation of education, the inclusion of students in the fields and the examination of the Institute for Postgraduate Doctors Education. [[15.20 hours]] I would also briefly touch on the proposed cancellation of the training field by a practical physician for children and adolescents. I think this is not a good proposal, because there are 2,000 doctors in this field. Two thousand doctors who provide quality primary care for children and young people. I think that this industry has shown its viability, that it has proven itself, people, parents are satisfied with this way of providing care and that there is no real need to change this system. In principle, no justification in the draft law for merging with the field of pediatrics has been presented. Moreover, there should actually be an extension of education from four to four and a half years, and this, of course, means slowing down the recovery of doctors, because the average age range is already quite high. So I would like to say that I have also taken the liberty of proposing an amendment that preserves this field in its original form. And let me just remind you, the reduction according to the proposal is to take place from 46 to 43 disciplines and, in principle, it is proposed to establish a new field of maxilofacial surgery, in which the number of doctors is about a few dozen compared to the number of doctors in the field of practical doctors for children and adolescents, where two thousand doctors work. It's a huge discrepancy, and not one change, in fact, means a merger with the field of pediatrics, nor is the inclusion of the maxilofacial field properly justified. Therefore, I intercede for the branch of the practical physician for children and adolescents to be maintained to the satisfaction of the public, the parental public, who are satisfied with this field and with the effect of doctors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u23	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Before we go on, I have two factual remarks from Mr Kostřice and Mr David Kasal. So the first factual comment by Roma Kostřice. Ms Soňa Marková will sign up for the proper debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u24	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address you with a sincere request to hear Mr Hovorka's amendment to abolishing the Maxilofacial Tribe. He explained it here on the side that there is a very small number of doctors and so on, which is certainly true. I'd like you to realize that from the medical point of view. Because if you have specialists who will be raised as maxilofacial surgeons only with a separate maxilofacial strain, then their ability to educate in an area that falls into other fields of surgery and especially otorinolaryngology is completely lost. It will occur that the maxillophacial surgeon so educated will be able to treat perhaps his own tumor somewhere in the area maxilofacial, but deep neck nodes where there are metastases, and these are the ones that will lead the patient to relapse of the disease or possibly to death, they are unable and will not be able to treat them. So this is a thing that you should be aware that this is about these doctors actually having to go through these otorinolaryngological fields as a basic strain and strain, or a surgical strain, so that they have the opportunity and ability to treat these patients. In my opinion, this proposal is so absurd that, I'm sorry, but I don't get it. And believe me, I know what I'm talking about. For less than ten years, I worked as Chairman of the Society for Otorinolaryngology and Head and Neck Surgery. And I know exactly what I'm talking about. Indeed, this law is absolutely absurd and, in my opinion, quite vicious. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u25	Thank you, Mr Rom Kostřic, for keeping time on the point of fact. Now, with the factual remark of David Kasal and after him, Mr Bohumil Svoboda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u26	Thank you for the floor. I will respond to my colleague, Mr Hovork, through Mr President. Sounds to me like we were both on a different health committee. Because, I think - here I heard nothing was explained, nothing was justified and so on and so forth. I'll do it again. If you read it, my colleague, through Mr President, there were 96 disciplines. It's from the 2004 Act. Read it there. So I don't understand the number you're saying here, 96 and 43 is a significant drop. I don't know how to say this anymore. And as far as other things are concerned, I'm not going to mention them, but about your explanation and reasoning, saying that the field of practice for children and adolescents will be cancelled, I said the numbers here. And all I'm gonna say is, it's in vain, it's in vain, it's in vain.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u27	Thank you, Mr David Kasal. Now Mr Bohuslav Svoboda also in a factual remark and then duly signed up by Mrs Soňa Marková. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u28	Thank you. By your means, Mr President, I would like to turn to my colleague Kostřic. We discussed all these things in detail on the Health Committee. And I find it unfair to talk about another field, that it doesn't know how to take out nodes or that it doesn't. I also don't say that most doctors in the field of ORL rinse their ears or treat their angina. It's just that the disciplines have a certain content, and we shouldn't interfere with it in such defensive words. The argument should be factual, professional, say yes, I know so many times when it was done wrong, this has been done well. All I know is that the world is developing in this direction, that this issue of maxilofacial surgery will become increasingly intense, regardless of the area of trauma, regardless of the area of cancer, and I know that this care is not sufficiently ensured in our country. If there are 200 experts and they cover the need throughout the Republic, that's fine. It's not good that there's 2,000 if the need wasn't. The number is not decisive, the quality is decisive. And that is what this law on doctor education should take care of.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u29	I thank Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. And one more factual point by Mr Rom Kostřice, then by Mrs Soňa Marková. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u30	Thank you for the floor. I dare to respond to the words of my previous speaker, Professor Svoboda. I know exactly what I'm talking about. I don't want to say that there are bad doctors in this business, that's not what I'm saying. I just want to make sure that these doctors have not only the opportunity, but the need to educate themselves in the fields that are necessary for the performance of their practice. It's not just the maxillophacial area, there's the area of the large salivary glands, the parietal glands, the sub-classic. These all tend to metastasized into deep neck nodes. And I can actually tell you, and I stand by it that I know a whole series of cases, or I know cases, I don't want to say their number, because I don't know when the cut on the skin clearly excluded the possibility of proper treatment of the cervical node as the patient would need it. If we ignore the efforts that we have learned that somewhere in Malaysia they are able to remove tumors without damage to the skin, then it was not possible to perform a perfect node revision from these surgical approaches as the patient deserved it. And I stand by that, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u31	I do not see any further factual remarks, so we will return to proper applications and he has a word - so I apologize before I finished the sentence, so Mr Hovorka came forward with a factual remark, so I will give him room. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u32	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I would like to briefly comment on the objection that has been raised here that everything has been explained. I said that the implementing decrees were not part of the proposal. And basically, the complex amendment lacked an explanatory report. That's what I said. Or where the changes that occurred in the comprehensive amendment would have been explained. And another thing that, in my opinion, was not explained in the original draft law, in the Government Houses of the Press 723, was that particular reason for the need to abolish the branch of the practical doctor for children and adolescents. It was merely said that there was a need to increase the penetration between pediatrics and PLDD, and then there was no mention or explanation of why the new field of maxilofacial surgery was classified among the disciplines. I insist that this has not been explained, and that is what my reservations have been made here in the speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u33	Mr Kasal - two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u34	Thank you, Mr President. I only have to respond to one thing my previous speaker, Mr. Hovorka, said. The explanatory memorandum was presented to the Health Committee. That's all I'm gonna say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u35	And if they are not, and they really are not, factual remarks, then Mrs Soňa Marková has the floor and Mr Marek Benda will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u36	Have a nice afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, members of the government. Allow me only briefly to include myself in the learned disputations of my esteemed colleagues as a layman, who looks at the laws submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, from the point of view of patients and those who are somehow unable to intervene in professional matters, as it sounds here. I would like to make a brief statement on behalf of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia as well as on the amendments that I have not tabled, because I do not think that we need to make amendments repeatedly. The first to which I would like to sign up is an amendment which returns practical medicine for children and youth to the basic fields of education. That's what I said on the Health Committee, because it just doesn't make sense to me. The disciplines were not as severely limited as originally foreseen, and let us take it and remember that one of the reasons for submitting this bill should have been to deal with the lack of doctors in our medical facilities and that the main problems were that we have few doctors and we have inadequate medical evaluation. To this point, it must be said that most likely - or not most likely - there has not been such a significant restriction on disciplines, and therefore it does not make sense to me that this particular field is excluded when caring for children in the Czech Republic, as set up today, is considered to be one of the best in Europe and perhaps even in the whole world, and there is simply no relevant reason to change that. It's been said a lot, I won't delay any longer. The second amendment to which I would like to sign up is a proposal which my colleague Hovorka has also mentioned here, and this is the return of competences to postgraduate education of the Institute for Doctors Education. I think that this too is one of the things that worked well, and it would be good for it to work after the peripetia that was again, as it was. I would like to make a brief comment on the question of the bill itself. That is also what I was talking about at the Committee on Health. I'm sure this bill didn't come out lightly. Various commissions were set up for it, the law was discussed for practically several years, comment procedures were carried out, etc. - and suddenly from one day to the next, a comprehensive amendment will appear, which brings about fundamental changes. Perhaps the most fundamental, ultimately, after a great resistance, has been excluded from this comprehensive amendment, which means compulsory internship of doctors in their education. I'm not saying if it's a good thing or a bad thing. My point is that it is certainly not good for us to adopt such an important law so that we get a comprehensive amendment from one day to the next, we have the opportunity to discuss it in the Health Committee, we will get the explanatory report to the table, and I think it is not dignified and it is not good because it is precisely those comments in the commentary procedure that are important. Because who else should comment on it but those to whom the law really applies? So this way of law enforcement is not dignified, and it is not good for good laws to go out of the Chamber of Deputies to serve both those who provide health care and those who need it, and these are patients. As far as the support of this law is concerned, the KSČM MEP will decide only according to any amendments adopted, because although we consider this law to be very necessary, some amendments are worthy of support, and if important things change as we think it is right for health care in the Czech Republic to function well, then we would support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u37	Thank you, Madame. Mr. Benda will have the floor, Mr. Kaňkovský will prepare... Excuse me, I'm sorry, Mr Heger's point of order. But before they arrive at the microphone, I will read the apology of Mrs Havlová, who apologizes for today's meeting because of the electoral process in the region. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u38	Thank you for the floor. I would only like to make a brief comment on what Mrs. previous speaker, Mrs. Marková, was saying. I must remind you that the comprehensive amendment in rough form has already been dealt with in the previous committee, and, paradoxically, it was just in Náchod, where it was organized by the honourable Member, and she remembers very well what the debate was all too excited there. I am not saying this as a criticism of the Member through the President, I am just saying this as an explanation, because, as in every field, even in medicine, there are extremely difficult matters to decide, there are things that run customarily, historically, or have some rational reasons, and there are a lot of people who are interested in protecting their backyards. Sometimes it's good, sometimes it's bad, but in any case, it's very exciting. And to add one more thing, because I once heard about how complex amendments are being tabled and how it eliminates the legislative process that he is sometimes such a reason for not wanting to make a move. I understand there are people who think one thing about pediatrics and people who think the other thing. But just what is here the most painful and most discussed point, i.e. The merger of the field of practical pediatrics and pediatrics was already in the original government proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u39	Thank you. One more point in fact, Mrs Marková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u40	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to say, through Mr President, that I really do not take this as a criticism of my person, but I am not surprised at all that my colleague, Heger, is obstructing the way in which the bills are passed by the proposals from one day to the next, because at the time of the reign of his political parties, that was quite common in the Health Committee. It was done almost every time. So I'm not really surprised that this kind of discussion doesn't seem too unusual to him and even approve of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u41	Mr Benda has the floor now and Mr Kaňkovský will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u42	Mr President, Minister, the last remaining, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that the acquisition of professional qualifications for the pursuit of health professions no longer entertains almost anyone here in this House except those few doctors who are involved, but nevertheless I consider it fair, because I will then submit an amendment in a detailed debate, so that I will present it in at least a partial way in the general debate, because, as usual, it will lead to proposals that I put forward in the health issue - a possible conflict, particularly with the construction organisations. In this law, I propose that we withdraw the competence of the Czech Medical Chamber, the pharmacies and dental chambers to stamp that someone may be the manager of the relevant medical facility. I think it's a faulty competence that doesn't belong to the powers of self-governing chambers. It remains, of course, in the relevant laws of competence to lay down the rules and conditions for the exercise of such a leadership, but I do not think that it is a chamber as an autonomous organization that issues the staff "he and he has fulfilled". This is a matter to be provided by an employer, which, of course, is to be checked under the rules approved by the employer, and it is not to be someone standing outside, to a large extent without responsibility, who gives such a stamp. So that's the proposal I'm going to sign up for in a detailed debate. I don't know how many complications it will cause, but I presume that it can cause some complications in the way we know how the chairman behaves especially in the medical chambers. That's the first thing. The second thing I just wanted to do about the debate was a practical doctor for children and youth. The rapporteur knows that this is an extremely difficult debate, that even in the committee, unlike a number of other things that were voted on 4 : 16 or 18, so here the vote was 10 : 12. It is a matter that I think is largely related to a certain degree of hostility, perhaps even personal, between pediatricians from facilities and pediatricians in field service, the very practical doctors for children and youth. I pointed out to the committee that, as a healthy person with more children, the only contact I have with health care is through the middle of the practical doctors for children and adolescents. Those are the ones I really have to go to from checkups to mandatory vaccinations to the fact that sometimes there's something wrong with these kids and sometimes they have some pains. And if I do not wish to make this group very difficult, to somehow create a feeling that she is not the flagship of Czech health care, because she is the first point of contact. It's not with all due respect to all the professors' masters and all the major hospitals, it's not the hospitals. It's this first wave that has direct contact with the citizen. And I would ask very much that - although the rapporteur here says 'we will make some adjustments to the future' - I am in favour, let us make them into the future. But at this point, let's leave the practical doctors for children and youth in the educational field as they have been so far. And if we want to make any changes, let's make them for the future so that we don't create some degree of uncertainty now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Please Mr Kaňkovský, who is also the last member of the general debate so far. Ambassador, I'm sorry - okay. So Mr Hovorka agrees that he will make a point of order only after your speech. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u44	Good afternoon, Mr President, Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. There was already a rather extensive discussion today about how the negotiations for the amendment of Act No. 95/2004 Coll. at several meetings of the Health Committee. I'm gonna touch it for a very short time. I'm sure we all felt that this discussion wasn't entirely standard and that it was very complicated. On the other hand, opinions on the amendment of Law 95 are also very diverse, very different. In this case, I think that we really had an effort to bring the law into shape so that it would actually bring something positive for our young doctors and for Czech health care. As far as the comprehensive amendment that we've also been talking about here is concerned, I don't think anything has broken that far. We had two meetings of the Health Committee - one in the Náchod already mentioned and one then here in the bowels of the Chamber of Deputies, where, before we went on vacation, we told each other the basic parameters of how we want the comprehensive amendment to look, because we all felt that the changes that still need to be made in the government proposal were still quite large. We agreed on the parameters. We have also agreed on a time when the comprehensive amendment will be prepared. Yes, then there was some controversy about the point that was put there at the last minute and involved mandatory internships of outpatients in hospitals. Yes, there was a very heated debate about it, but in the end - and I am grateful to the petitioners - this controversial proposal has been withdrawn. And while we all feel that it would be a good idea to improve communication between outpatients and hospitals, I believe that this would not happen the way it was designed. On the contrary, I think that negative emotions between these two segments would grow. If I take the complex amendment as a whole, I am convinced that it is a material that can definitely be based on at the moment. And while I presume a debate on a number of amendments both from the committees and from the second reading here, I think that this is the way to push the law to a successful end. In a detailed debate, I would like to read one small amendment, but I dare say that it is not important, which addresses the requirements of a minimum-time doctor, event. doctors in preparation for certification who take care of small children or children. We have already discussed this at first reading that we have particularly doctors who want to return from medical leave gradually. That means they have family reasons to do it, not immediately get into the required part-time, but to come back one by one, after two days. That is why I also proposed an exception in the amendment, which would extend not only to doctors or doctors on parental leave, but also to parents-doctors who take care of children until they begin compulsory schooling. I believe that this will be better affected by the problems of some families who may have more small children, but no longer fall within the parent category on parental leave. I think that when we call across this House, after the conditions of better reconciliation of family and working life, this is one of the possible paths. And as a hospital doctor, actually, throughout my career I've been a hospital doctor, I can say that in practice we often encounter this problem, and doctors welcome it for a shorter time. It will enable them to take better care of their children, and this will not interfere with their graduate training. On the contrary, I think it is easier for them to return to the work process. So much for the second reading of this novel. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Please Mr Hovorka, who wishes to make a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u46	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to explain to Mr Kasal through the President that I had in mind the basic fields of reduction from 46 to 43. So much for explaining. Then one more thing that concerns the field of practical physician for children and adolescents that the care system is essentially satisfied with both parents and insurance companies and there is no demand, no reason for this system to change. [[15.50 hours]] The second issue, which relates to the implementing decrees. According to paragraphs 142 and 146, Section 37 will regulate the authorisation of the Ministry for the issue of a decree on medical activities, etc. I would like to ask the Minister when the Ministry will prepare a decree on activities, that is, what doctors can do specifically at a certain stage of preparation, because Deputy Minister Policar said it is difficult to prepare it when there is no definitive wording of the law. So I would like to ask, from the adoption of the law until the Ministry prepares this decree on activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u47	Thank you. Two factual points. Mr Plzák, then Mr Brázdil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, co-workers, I have to respond to the previous speaker again. How come there's no demand for the system to change? Today, practical doctors tell us themselves that they are getting older, who will replace them. And in the current situation, an experienced pediatrician who works in a hospital can't go to work on a circuit, can't replace anyone in the current situation, and it happens to us that these places can stay vacant. That's the way it's dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u49	Mr. Mr. Brázdil. After that, Mr Hovorka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u50	I often hear that I didn't want to perform and that I changed my mind. I wanted to, I just waited for when and I didn't want to hold up too much. The negotiation of this law has been odd since the beginning. There's gonna be a novel, a proposal, a lot of people discussing it for two and a half years. It'll come to the Legislative Council of the Government, she'll take it and say yes, discuss it. Then, suddenly, in a closed negotiations, we do not know what we are discussing, it is still a closed negotiations, and then it goes on even to a complex amendment that was not even in the system on the day we were supposed to discuss it. We're supposed to put changelings on it. I'm not some expert on this, I've been here three years, but I find it opaque, I don't like it. And it looks like it, you can see it. The discussion. It's just not ready. Why does the Ministry of Health have a comprehensive amendment tabled to four Members, which you are then expressing here? Can't the D.O.D. do it on its own? No, that's different. I don't think she wants to. It takes more blurry. It wants to be done differently than the two and a half years that somebody's been talking about it, so they failed, so we're gonna do it. We're gonna dig it up, and you guys could still hang out and do whatever they want. I'm sorry, I wanted to tell you, I just didn't want to bother you too much with some big gig. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u51	Mr Hovorka and Mr Kasal after him in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u52	Thank you for the floor. I am also to Mr Plzák through the President. Of course, that's where the penetration might be. There is required some, as far as I know, difference test, because there is another education in the field that is focused on practical training. There is a different education between the field of pediatrics and the pediatrician for children and adolescents, so that is possible. And it's not like those doctors in the field are the oldest or the most aging average. On the contrary, in this preparation over the last few years, as far as residential places are concerned, I think there were 200 doctors in preparation. That's just to explain how it's going with the preparation and the possibility of penetration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u53	Mr. Kasal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u54	Thank you for the floor. I can't do it either. I will address the two previous speakers. I'll start with my colleague, Hovorka. Mr President, this is no different test for the Chief of Staff to go into the field. There's a six-month demand. Let's be clear. The pass isn't there. As for my fellow Member, Mr Brázdil, through Mr President, I think I have explained on the Health Committee how the law has been discussed. Yes, it's been discussed for practically two years. And just to say that - what I heard, colleague, from your mouth, I thought I heard the Czech Medical Chamber.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u55	Mr Antonín, also a factual point. Then Mr. Brázdil. I do not want to limit you, but I would like to ask that we be on our way to the conclusion of the general debate. These things really belong to a health committee or, in my opinion, to some expert debate at a plenary other than the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. But of course, I don't want to limit you, I'm just asking you to be lenient. Mr Antonín.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u56	For many years, we have learned that medical education is not what it should be. He hasn't been willing and able to do anything for many years. When this ministry finally found the strength to try to change this education, it has been working on it for two years, and now three health committees are discussing it, and the weak spots that could have been a dispute, change and retreat, so it is considered weakness and badness and inability to deal with the law. That's a completely misguided consideration. And the pediatricians. Let me say the same analogy again. I'm an obstetrician and a gynecologist, I work in an ambulance, I work in a maternity ward and I operate, and theoretically I should have three different tests based on this way of thinking, because each of these activities is completely, fundamentally different. Obstetrics, oncology gynecology, outpatient gynecology. Three different tests.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u57	Mr Brázdil withdraws. Excellent. Thank you for your kindness. Mr. Mr. Štětina with proper application. Seriously. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u58	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I think we should move on, but I have one thing to say. I don't like the fact that we're attacking some of the institutions that belong to our health care. I must say to my colleague here, Kasal, through you, Mr President, that colleague Hovorka is not acting like a medical chamber. The Doctor's Chamber of Law 220 has in § 2 in the letter. (d) written - to issue certificates of compliance. That's the law. So I don't think we should go this way, if it's a matter of the chamber, if it's a matter of the medical faculty, if it's a matter of the ministry. Let us move on and agree on some procedure to finally have this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u59	Thank you, too. If no one else applies to the general debate, I will ask the rapporteur to deal with one procedural or technical proposal before I close it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u60	Thank you, Mr President. As I have already read at the outset in the resolution of the Committee on Health, we should now vote on deciding that the comprehensive amendment contained in the committee resolution has been taken as the basis for further discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u61	Yes. So I'm going to vote on the proposal that fell here. This means that a comprehensive amendment will be taken as a basis, which is... [[A voice from the diaper.]] About that, Mr. Ambassador? [[I want to make a counterproposal.]] Of course, it's possible to counter-proposal, but I'll finish the review. This means that the proposal is for us to vote on the fact that a comprehensive amendment contained in the resolution of the Health Committee will be taken as the basis for the amendment. Mr Brázdil wishes to make a counterclaim. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u62	Colleagues, colleagues, I would put forward a counter-proposal to further propose amendments to that government proposal, the one that went through the Government Legislative Council that was given here. The government said yes, discuss him. And not a comprehensive changeling of four Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u63	Thank you. That's a voteable counterproposal. Colleagues, colleagues, please settle down! I will first vote on the counter-proposal made by Mr Brázdil. He suggests that the original government proposal be taken behind the foundation. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who... [[There are protests from the hall that not all Members are present.]] I've already announced several times... So I declare the vote confusing, I end it, and I warn you that I announced in time in the lobby that there will be a vote. So one more time. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees with Mr Brázdil's proposal that amendments should be made to the original Government proposal, which is the counter-proposal of Mr Kasal's proposal. Who's in? Who's against it? It's vote number 151. Signed in 165, for are 4, against 81. The motion was not accepted. Now we're going to vote on... I'm going to sign you all off at the request of the diaper. A new registration, please. And we'll vote on the original... [[Mr Stanjure is reporting.]] Well, with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u64	I'll just do it next time. I think the vote that just took place must not be voted and not. So that's okay, but it's just not possible to vote on this. I'm sorry. About what we just voted on. We'll vote next time that it's Tuesday. I don't know. Just Mr. Chairman, I object. Such a vote should not have been launched at all. Mr Brázdil's proposal on this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u65	Of course, there were two alternatives. Either vote directly on Mr Kasal's proposal or give Mr Brázdil the opportunity to apply the counter-proposal. I thought it was easier to have it voted. If you insist on your objection, please formulate it, Chairman Stanjur. Is this an objection to the President's procedure, or... [[Mr Benda is reporting for the floor.]] Mr. Benda, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u66	Mr President, I tried to wave at you, but you did not see me. I consider this vote confusing and I would like to see it declared confusing from the level of the President. We can vote on taking something else as a basis for second reading. But we can't vote to uphold the law and take the original ground. Imagine a situation where Mr Brázdil's proposal would not pass and Mr Kasal's proposal would not pass. So we're in complete absurdistan because we don't know what we're discussing next. There can simply be a vote about taking something else as a basis, there cannot be a vote about taking the original proposal as a basis, because if it does not pass, we are walking into a trap that we are unable to solve.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u67	Yes, I'm leaning towards this interpretation. I'm sorry. I may have been too benevolent for Mr Brázdil's proposal, but I understand your argument that convinced me. It won't happen again next time. This means that I declare the vote confusing and we will vote on Mr Kasal's original proposal. That means one more time. I'll ring the bell. This is about the fact that the comprehensive amendment to the Health Committee will be taken as the basis for the amendment. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's a 152 vote. It's registered 135, 130, no one. This proposal was adopted. So at this stage, I am ending the general debate and I will ask the final words after the general debate. Whether there's interest? It's not like that. I have no comment from my fellow Vice-President that there would be a motion to return the bill to the guarantee committee, so we cannot vote on anything else at this stage. In that case, I am opening up a detailed debate and we have nine applications. Mr Heger, please, and Mr Kasal will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must say that, following this debate, it takes some political courage to make amendments here. However, I allow myself to apply to three, which are in the system under number 4883, then 4884 and last 4885. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u69	Thank you. Mr. Kasal, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u70	I agree with my colleague Heger about the courage. I'll continue then. In a detailed debate, I refer to my amendments under 4843, 4902, 4904, 4907 and 4908. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u71	Thank you. Mr. Mr. Brázdil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u72	Thank you for the floor, too. I'd like to download one of my changelings. Because we solved that in the complex one. Which was 4788, i.e. withdraw. And I am signing up for four of my amendments under 4882, 4789, 4786 and 4787. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u73	Thank you. Please, Mrs Pastuchová. Mr. Svoboda will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u74	Thank you. I am signing up for my amendment under number 4828.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u75	Thank you. Mr. Mr. Freedom. Mr. Hovorka will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u76	Mr President, I also want to join the brave ones and apply to my Amendment 4529, which concerns practical physicians for children and adolescents.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u77	Thank you. Mr. Mr. Hovorka. After that, Mr. Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am reporting on my amendments, which I have put into the system under number 4892. These are amendments relating to the preservation of the field of general practitioners for children and adolescents. In addition to the restriction relating to § 36. A brief statement of reasons. The draft law in the explanatory memorandum states in Section 36 that paragraph 3 (a) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii)) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v)) (v)) (v))) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) The institute of authorisation for the exercise of a medical profession, in particular for the performance of one-off performances, is normally used. One-time performances are shown by experts from around the world. They are not required to meet the requirements of this law. In view of the intensity and normal length of stay, these activities could be limited under § 36 para. 1 for a maximum of three months in one calendar year, which can be considered sufficient, and at the same time it is a measure that will prevent any abuse of this institute. Another amendment in Section 5a concerns the release of the term maxillophacial surgical strain. A brief statement of reasons. It can be noted to the maxillophacial surgical strain that as a complete novelty it was added to the primary fields as well as to the field of maxilofacial surgery. Given the marginal number of doctors in this field, by an estimated number of dozens of doctors, such classification among the basic disciplines is clearly unsystemic. It is a question of what was the real reason for such inclusion. It is therefore proposed to transfer the field of maxilofacial surgery between superstructures with entry specialization in the field of surgery or ORL and cancellation of the maxilofacial surgical strain. Another amendment, which I mentioned in more detail in the general debate, concerns § 43b, the mandate to carry out certain activities when the following amendments are proposed under this amendment: Amendment to the provisions in Section 43b para. 2 where the entrusted organisation with which the Ministry of Health may conclude a public contract is defined. The proposal allows those legal persons to carry out educational activities in the framework of postgraduate training. However, administrative activities, namely inclusion in the fields and organisation of certification tests, leave with the legal person established by the Ministry of Health. Therefore, this is about keeping IPVZ in the fields and organisation of testing. It's a certified organization that's been doing this since 1953. And according to my more detailed reasoning, there is also a demand between doctors that IPVZ should be responsible for the inclusion in the fields and, on the one hand, for the performance of the tests. These are my amendments, which I am signing up for and which I have put into the system under the number 4892. I ask that each vote be voted on individually thereafter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u79	Thank you. Mr Benda, I beg you, Mr Kaňkovský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u80	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to subscribe to House document 4903, the amendment to the press 723. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u81	Thank you. Mr Kaňkovský, Mr Štětina after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u82	Good afternoon again. Allow me to sign up for my amendment under the number of House document 4890. As I have already announced in the general debate, this is an extension of the exemption from minimum weekly working time not only to doctors, doctors on parental leave, but also to those who take care of children before compulsory schooling. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u83	Thank you. I ask Mr Štětina and Mr Mihola after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u84	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. I would allow myself to apply humbly to Amendment No 4532 that's in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u85	Yes. Please, Mr Mihola, who is the last member of the detailed debate so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose an amendment to my colleague Ludvík Hovorka, who is inserted into the system under No. 4892. A brief comment on it or a statement of reasons: It is an amendment that leaves the field of practical medicine for children and adolescents between the core fields. Two thousand doctors work in this important field of primary care. The child care system has proven itself. It works and there is no real need to change this system. As a result, a part of the transitional provisions is deleted, which, while maintaining this field, lacks meaning among the main fields. The length of education leaves the amendment at the current length, i.e. four years compared to the proposed extension in the original proposal and a comprehensive amendment proposing an extension of education from four to four and a half years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-13-ps2013-049-05-001-023.u87	Thank you and I will ask if anyone else is still reporting for a detailed debate. If this is not the case, I am ending the debate in detail. I will ask the Minister and the rapporteur about the final words. It's not like that. Mr rapporteur, according to my remarks, there is nothing to vote on, so we can end the second reading of this proposal. [[Agreed.]] So I thank both the rapporteur and the Minister. And we'll continue with point number
