ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-007-152.u1	152. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the International Labour Organisation Convention No. 183 on maternity protection, adopted at the 88th session of the International Labour Conference in Geneva on 15 June 2000 /German press 737/ - first reading I will ask the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová and Mrs Markéta Adamová to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. I would ask the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to present the proposal. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-007-152.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Members, the initiative to ratify this 2000 Convention came from the Czech Moravian Confederation of Trade Unions. This Convention provides for prohibited work for pregnant and lactating women, the minimum length and other requirements of maternity leave, the amount and nature of cash benefits to women on maternity leave, the protection period and the question of the return of women to employment after maternity leave, and the Convention provides for the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of maternity and the requirement for the granting of maternity breaks. This Convention is in accordance with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. [[12.00 hours]] As far as national law is concerned, it can be noted that the vast majority of commitments are already regulated in our current legislation, which means that new legislative measures will not need to be adopted. The only thing where we want to make an exception to the scope of the application of the Convention is the question of women working on outside employment agreements. In Czech legislation, we do not provide these women with protection from dismissal or immediate termination of this employment by the employer, nor will this category of women qualify for breaks on breastfeeding. This is because outside employment agreements are not intended as the primary source of livelihoods for the population. This means that, at the same time, the existing sickness insurance scheme is not currently set up to fully cover these short-term and by nature random working relationships when it requires one certain minimum amount of deductible income for participation in sickness insurance. It is also necessary to make a declaration in the framework of the ratification process where the length of maternity leave will be fixed binding on the Member State. So we propose that 28 weeks be stated, which corresponds to the Czech legislative regulation, and which, by the way, is actually more than the Convention requires. This material was the subject of negotiations of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence and Security and the Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and in both cases it was unanimously decided to approve this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-007-152.u3	I thank the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová and, since Mrs Markéta Adamová is not present, she is duly excused, I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading from the committee, Mrs Gabriela Pecková, who will replace the originally announced rapporteur. Please, Madame, you have the floor on the intelligence report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-007-152.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good noon. On this point, I would just say that the Minister has introduced us very closely. Of course, given demographic developments, we need to do our utmost to support motherhood in any way. So I'd just like to suggest ordering the press to the Foreign Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-007-152.u5	Thank you, Mrs Gabriela Pecková. I am opening a general debate in which I have no written application, but I see Mr Leo Luzar's application from the position and the President. So much higher, ODS President Zbyněk Stanjura, then Mr Luzar. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-007-152.u6	Have a nice noon. I'm getting off on this block for the second time today. I'd like to ask the secretary what it's for. Because, if I understand correctly, most of the minimal things the Czech Republic meets well, even exceeds. I would like to ask who are the states that have ratified this, that there are only 30 of them. There are only thirty of them, and only a small part of the Member States of the European Union have ratified the Treaty. I would understand if it were in some countries where there is no democratic establishment, when there is a problem with the equality of women and with the promotion of motherhood. And once again, to show what we are discussing and what these texts look like, let me quote you from the Review of the compliance of the Convention with the national legal order. Don't worry, I won't read all the articles, just Article 1. I think it is really important, and you will see what we are discussing in Parliament. For the purposes of the Convention, Article 1 shall determine the terms of a woman who is to be understood under this Convention by a person of the female sex without distinction. At the same time, it determines the concept of a child, which means any child without distinction. Now our lawyers have taken action, assessed the compliance of this article with our constitutional order and conclusion: The Czech Republic meets the requirement of Article 1. I have to say, I'm certainly not the only one who's relieved that we're going to fulfill the fact that a woman is a woman, that she's a female person without distinction. At the same time, our rule of law already fully applies the concept of a child, which means any child without distinction. And that's what our officials do. I'm sure it's not one of the clerks that's working on it. If we approve, there will certainly be some conferences where we will broadcast our employees, they are in the civil service, and those who, I hope, will very strongly promote our firm and common view across the political spectrum, who is the woman and who is the child. Thank you for your answers, Madam Secretary, for the first two questions I asked.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-007-152.u7	I'll ask my colleague Luzar to wait. With a factual remark, Mr Martin Novotný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-007-152.u8	It inspired me to quote a familiar sentence from the Green Book of Muammar Kaddáfí, which says: "Today there is no doubt that not only a man but also a woman is a human being. " It reminds me of the text of this parliamentary document, Muammar Kaddáfí's extremely witty text.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-007-152.u9	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, with proper application, Mr Leo Luzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-007-152.u10	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, after this slightly entertaining performance, I would like to say that I would like to see the contracts that will be originally written in Czech translated into English, and how your native English spokespersons will talk about the patrons and the words and wordings that will be given there. Unfortunately, this is also the case with these international treaties. And as much as I had the opportunity to read, I wondered how such a formulation could be such a clear and logical thing. But they were just in the original contract, the officials slavishly translated it. But I don't question the fact that it's smiling at all. And my colleague Stanjura is right that sometimes we should think about what words and sentences we use. Rather, I would like to draw your attention to the matter, although not married and not to a child under the classification of this Treaty, to Article 2 which is in this Treaty, and that is, "in accordance with Article 2 of the Convention, the scope of the application from the Convention precludes the category of women performing work on the basis of agreements on work done outside the employment relationship'. I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is becoming more and more fashionable in the Czech Republic to employ women mainly on a non-basic or main employment relationship. It's still a fashionable free working time, using different options. From this point of view, I am not quite sure that, by excluding this Article 2, a certain group of women, pregnant women, will become disadvantaged in the labour market under this protection. That is why I am allowed to extend the committees to discuss social issues, and I do not feel like an expert in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-007-152.u11	I thank Mr Leo Luzar. I have no other application for a debate; I am ending the debate. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering a motion to discuss the Committee on Social Affairs... Madam Secretary wants the final word. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-007-152.u12	Thank you. At this point, I am unable to answer Mr Stanjur exactly the information relating to those countries, but we can certainly say that later. As far as the definitions are concerned, it is an international treaty that covers the situation globally and throughout the world. In a number of international treaties, articles and wordings relating to developing countries do not concern the Czech Republic. So maybe I really understand about the baby that it involves married children, but also illegitimate children, because it can be of great importance in some countries. And I think it's a good thing that even if it doesn't mean any changes to us, it certainly doesn't hurt to have that international treaty signed because it defines certain standards for us. And in case anybody thinks of a government, lower these standards, we just have an international treaty that ties us to them. [[12.10 hours]] And as far as the disadvantaged group of pregnant people are concerned, you're right, but as much as there's money for maternity assistance set up, it just depends on the benefits of sickness insurance. However, as far as further benefits are concerned, there are women who give birth to a child protected. As far as parental contributions are concerned, it doesn't really matter what kind of employment she worked in. So, actually, the way we set it up today, I don't think we're gonna hurt anyone by the exceptions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-007-152.u13	Thank you. Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-007-152.u14	I didn't want to lead the controversy about definitions, I didn't ask them. I was just showing the absurdity of this document. I'm interested in how many people here are dealing with this. And the key question: what good will it do us to ratify it? Because the Minister did not say in her opening words: the government wants. The Minister said: The Confederation of Trade Unions would like us to ratify this. And it's supposed to be protection from some future government that wants to lower standards. But it must be said that according to the contract, the standard period for maternity leave is - and it sounds terrible in Czech, maternity leave, as if it were, where we might work, invent one-word names in English, but which I do not think are happy at all, but work with the Czech language because the holiday evokes that you are retired. And according to this draft, the standards are 14 weeks. So if some government, and I mean, we're not suggesting it, and we don't want it, wanted it from 28 to 20 or to 18, which would be quite a significant intervention in the length of maternity leave, it would still suit this international treaty that we're here to ratify. So we're much better off. That's why I'm interested in the signatories. Perhaps it is important for a country in the sense that it has put something into legislation. But we really don't need it. And I'd like all the ministers to take a look at those contracts. I know it's difficult, and it's very often formal, and it's worn by the deputy and union directors, and there's one contract after another, but as I've quoted today's absurd provisions of two randomly chosen, I'm almost sure we'll find these things in each of those international treaties, and then let's ask ourselves whether the energy of official performance, of us, of many people, is something more important than that, according to the international convention, a woman is a female person and a child is a child. If it were said at least in children that each state had a different age limit of maturity, liability for crimes, etc., it would make sense and it could be that it is, for example, for children who do not yet have legal responsibility, etc. There's none of it. It's full of general stages. But I'm sure they will, and that's another question, and I'm going to ask the Minister, whether for committee or second reading, how many conferences we're going to take, where we're going to actively go, we're going to perform there. [[communicates]] How much is this gonna cost us? Thank you. In my opinion, we do not need this at all, so I suggest to the Chamber of Deputies that we do not order this to be rejected. Nothing's gonna happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-007-152.u15	Well, I closed the debate, so it's my fault at this point. But, of course, it is a legitimate proposal not to order, but in this respect, it is a proposal that is different from the one put forward by the rapporteur in the news report, even though it proposes something other than an organizational committee. If we proceed per analogy according to the law, because it does not regulate the Rules of Procedure on international treaties, we would first vote not to order it unless no one objects to the President's procedure, and then we would deal with the motion for a commandment, stating that the Organising Committee has proposed to order the Committee on Social Policy, and the rapporteur would probably repeat her proposal to the Foreign Committee, if I understood it correctly. I will sign you off because the situation in the Chamber of Deputies has changed in terms of the number of Members and Members, and as soon as the number of applicants has settled, we will decide on the proposal that the Chamber of Deputies should not order this, which Zbyněk Stanjura, President of the ODS club, which I will do now. I've started voting 149, and I'm asking who's in favour of not ordering it. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 149 of the 124 Members present for 19, against 82. So we'll do it in the standard way. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Social Policy Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? Madam rapporteur, if you repeat your proposal? If you don't, I'm not forcing you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-007-152.u16	I will repeat my proposal to order the press to the Foreign Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-007-152.u17	Yes. So we will now vote first on the commandment of the Committee on Social Policy. I've started voting number 150, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 150 of the 129 Members present for 117, against no one. We will now vote on the proposal to the Foreign Committee, in the vote number 151, which I have launched. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 151 of the 131 Members present for 121, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Thank you, Madam Secretary, thank you to the rapporteur, and I end at paragraph 152. Before we go any further, I will make an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Gabal apologizes from 11:40 to 13:00 for business reasons, Mr Havíř from today's meeting from 13:00 to the end of the sitting day, Mr Martin Plíšek from 14:30 to the end of the sitting day for personal reasons and Mr Daniel Korte from 14:30 for business reasons. We will continue with the point
