ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-037-06-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 37th session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. I'd like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, let me know who's applying for a replacement card. With replacement card number 11 today, Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura, President of the ODS Club, votes. I am saying that the following Members asked to apologize for their absence at today's meeting: Adamec Ivan - foreign trip, Adámek František - foreign trip, Balaštíková Margita - health reasons, Benešík Ondřej - foreign trip, Farskýý Jan - health reasons, Havlová Olga - health reasons, Kořenek Petr - health reasons, Kott Josef - work reasons, Lobkowicz Jaroslav - foreign trip, Ondráček Zdeněk - personal reasons, Opálka Miroslav - health reasons, Putnová Anna from 14.30. within 19 hours - working reasons, Schwarzenberg Karel - working reasons. From today's meeting the following members of the government apologized: Dienstbier Jiří - working reasons, chovanec Milan - foreign trip, Mládek Jan - foreign trip, Němeček Svatopluk - foreign trip, Stropnickýý Martin - foreign trip, Ťok Dan - working reasons, Valachová Kateřina within 18 hours - working reasons, Zaorálek Lubomír - foreign trip. We will consider points 1 and 2, which are House prints 513 and 514 - a government bill on the record of sales, third reading, and a government bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the sales record law, also a third reading. We dealt with these Houses of Press on 29 January when we interrupted the merged debate. I ask that Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš and rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, the Budget Committee, these Houses of Press, Mr Jaroslav Klaška, who is also the rapporteur of the next Committee, be the economic committee. Just so you know - The Chamber of Deputies agreed by its resolution number 1 047 pursuant to § 59 para. 1 and 2 of our Rules of Procedure, firstly, with a limitation of the speaking time for 10 minutes and secondly, with a maximum of twice as much as possible by the Member. I recall that the House decided by its decision on Friday 29 January that today, on Wednesday 10 February, we will vote on the Houses of thousands of 513 and 514 at third reading and on the amendments to these Houses at 11 o'clock. So we will now continue with the suspended merged debate.
