ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u1	232. Oral inhalation Mr. František Vácha, who will interpel Mr. Bohuslav Sobotka on the issue of a dysfunctional information system for RIV research and development, has drawn the first interview for the Prime Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u2	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, Government, Members, since yesterday, the information system for research and development has not worked. For Members present - it is something as if the information system of social administration or vehicle registers does not work. The shocking thing is that no one had been informed of this in advance. This is a fundamental error where the Deputy Prime Minister has not been able to negotiate with the administrator of this information system, or to ensure some alternate operation. And he knew that in advance. That contract expired on 31st. 5. 2016. The operation of this system is imposed by Act No. 130/2002 Sb. and failure is already a real threat to the functioning of the R &amp; D system in the Czech Republic. Your government, Prime Minister, is declaring itself a government fighting corruption, and the actions of some of your members are actually going against these declarations, because a transparent way of distributing R & D finance is at risk with a dysfunctional system. And since this is not the first such error in the case relating to the transparent distribution of money into science, the opinion in the scientific community is growing that these are special-purpose steps to liquidate this system. Prime Minister, this error is already so crucial that I ask you to consider resolving this serious crisis in terms of personnel. That is why I ask you how you intend to address this situation, and now I think without any excuse that it is within the competence of the Vice-President of the Government. Now I think it's outnumbered his office. [[Time.]] And it is a question of the whole government's relationship to Czech science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u3	Thank you, honourable Member. I beg you, Prime Minister, your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u4	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would like to say, oh, the information systems. Because if you asked any member of the government what the biggest problem is, probably among the main things, each of them would undoubtedly identify the problem of outsourcing information systems used by the government. I asked the Deputy Prime Minister's Office for Science, Research and Innovation, which is responsible for this area in the government, on the basis of your interpellation, I am referring to the information system of research and development on which the interpelation was directed. This public administration information system ensures the collection, processing, provision and use of research, development and innovation data supported by public funds. This system is provided in the form of outsourcing provided by a consortium of suppliers consisting of Czech Technical University in Prague and InfoScience Praha, s. r. o. The contract for the provision of services supporting the operation of the information system was concluded for a fixed period until 31 May 2016. Although the Office of the Government, a section of the Deputy Prime Minister for Science, Research and Innovation, has made significant efforts to ensure the continued duration of the services supporting the operation of the information system, it has not yet been possible to find agreement with the consortium of suppliers on the conditions for further operation of this information system. The reason is, as I have examined, especially the price conditions offered by the members of the consortium of ČVUT suppliers and the relevant company for the subject matter of the performance of the public contract, which is the value of the offer well beyond the estimated value of the public contract. However, the negotiated procedure without publication of the award of the contract, which also covers the provision of services for the operation of the information system of research and development, continues to take place while the price conditions for the indicative offer of the consortium are currently being submitted to the opinion and examination of experts. The fact that the negotiated procedure is still ongoing without publication is also a reason why it is not possible to temporarily disclose all the details of the negotiated procedure without publication. According to the information received, both parties are bound by confidentiality on matters relating to the conduct and details of the negotiated procedure without publication. Therefore, this negotiated procedure is under way and the possibility of a mutually acceptable solution is not excluded. Also, according to the information I have from today, the responsible representatives of the State do not exclude that an acceptable solution could take place within a period of two to three weeks. In parallel, the relevant section of the Office of the Government ensures the necessary steps to fulfil legal obligations and communicates with key partners in the academic world as well as with system users. In the event that no agreement has been reached with that consortium, an alternative way of ensuring access to the database of data in the field of research, experimental development and innovation is being worked out. This alternative solution should also be prepared. There is no way I want to underestimate the information that was said here in this interview. I want to confirm that this is a serious problem, and I assume that the Deputy Prime Minister will inform on this at the next meeting of the Government and that we will receive from him information on how the section will proceed, so as to ensure that all data is disclosed so that legal obligations are fulfilled and, of course, that the transparency provided by this information system is not compromised in the field of science and research. So much information that I have received in this matter. However, I note that it is not an easy thing to do to ensure the operation of information systems within the legal environment in which we are moving, in a situation where, in the past, completely advantageous contracts for the State have not been concluded, and in a situation where the State is under pressure from a supplier who has unique rights, unique information and uses this situation where the contract ends, to increase the price and try to achieve higher performance by the State. Here too, it is important to defend the interest of the state and not automatically approach such practices.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr. Ambassador, your follow-up question - oh, the information systems.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u6	Thank you. Prime Minister, you have read us the beautiful elaborate prepared by the Bělobrádkův administration, but I feel you have not answered my question sufficiently. The data, what you read to us here, we already know everything. I asked you how you're going to handle this. How are you going to deal with this in personnel terms, because it is not the first mistake that has happened in relation to any selection procedures that have a relation to a transparent distribution of funds for research and development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u7	Thank you, Mr. Members. Prime Minister, your follow-up answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u8	Thank you. We do know, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, that there is limited time to prepare for the response to interpelation. The Prime Minister and a member of the government do not know in any great time ahead of time what the topic of interpelation will be. I certainly have to admit that I am inclined to the information that I get from my co-workers, because if I do not deal directly with this matter personally - and, indeed, I have not personally dealt with the question of the information system of research and development in recent months - in the case that I personally do not deal with it as Prime Minister, I am dependent on the information provided by other members of the government, respectively. their co-workers and their authorities at the time available. I have here introduced both the Member and the Chamber of Deputies to the information I have received on this matter. In any case, I am counting on requesting additional information to be heard at the nearest government meeting. Naturally, I want to ensure compliance with the law, and I firmly believe that the complex system will be able to start and solve the problem either within the relevant JŘBU, which is currently under way or an event. an alternate way on which, as I was assured, the Deputy Prime Minister's office is working.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u9	Thank you, Prime Minister. The second interview will be presented by Mrs Anna Putnová, who will interpel Mr Bohuslav Sobotka on responsibility for inclusion. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u10	Good afternoon. Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. My question to the Prime Minister is quite simple. Prime Minister, Mr President of Social Democracy, do you take political responsibility for the form of inclusion started by Minister Valachová? I ask because, however much I do not question the principle of inclusion, which is incorporated into our legal system, and although I am aware of the synergy effects that inclusion has for all types of children, I highly doubt that the method chosen by Minister Valachová in a strong enforcement with specified deadlines is suitable for this type of inclusion of children. My question is simple, and I will settle for a one-soft answer. Do you take political responsibility for the form of inclusion chosen by the Minister of Education Valachová? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u11	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Prime Minister. I'm sure that'll be a quick answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u12	Yes. I would like to thank you, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members - indeed it will not be just a yes or a no - but I would like to thank Minister Valachová for the way she took up the inclusion. Since this is not a bureaucratic approach, it is not an approach to promote any changes at all costs, but Minister Valachová tries for the first time - and this is one of the first ministers of education who really wants to do so - to provide funding for inclusion. What we have experienced in recent years has been inclusion, which has been realized, and it will certainly be recognised by the honourable Member that it has not been our government that started inclusion in the Czech Republic, inclusion has been going on for many years, but it has been under completely unsatisfactory conditions. It is precisely that it took place under completely unsatisfactory conditions, in a situation where schools did not receive the funds to ensure the conditions for inclusion, so also between parts of the pedagogical public the process was created and priori distrust. Madam Secretary Valachová is trying to break this and priori distrust right now by treating inclusion comprehensively. I can clearly say - if we manage to provide sufficient funding, inclusion in education will continue, but only if, for schools, educators, parents, governments, regions and municipalities are able together to create optimal conditions, because it is not possible for inclusion to continue without this support being granted primarily from the state to parents and schools. This was not the case in the past. We experienced situations where assistants in schools were financed from an active employment policy on temporary employment, without the necessary and sufficient qualifications. Schools were not sure - in fact, they were sure that they would not receive money from assistants even though they repeatedly asked for them. That was the certainty they were meeting. Thus, I support the comprehensive approach to inclusion advocated by Minister Valachová. I will also support it in the negotiations on the state budget for next year, where we aim to ensure that the necessary amount of funding is earmarked in the budget to ensure support measures, including the teaching assistants. And for inclusion, which will be accompanied by financial resources, undoubtedly as Prime Minister together with the government, together with the Minister of Education, I bear political responsibility. But I care very much to eliminate the shortcomings we have encountered in inclusion in recent years. I'm not a follower of directional numbers, I'm not a follower of setting goals. I am a supporter of creating opportunities for parents to create opportunities for children to achieve the best possible education for their children. I think it is the wish and dream of every parent so that his child has a chance of a good education, to develop his potential, and if inclusion can help this, then it is undoubtedly a good process. But it can't be a bureaucratic process, it can't be something that forces people, it will force families into something that families don't want or that families with children can't handle, but it must be a process where children and their parents are offered a chance for better education. This is the concept of inclusion for which I want to bear political responsibility, because I think it is a positive process for maintaining some fundamental cohesion in society. It is very important that we do not divide people, so that we do not push those who do not have the conditions created for it to the edge. Here I think the concept of inclusion that our government is trying to promote is exactly this. But it requires enough funding, and it will also require a hard debate on the state budget for next year, in order to do so next year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u13	I thank the Prime Minister for this very clear answer. The honourable Member has an additional question. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u14	If you don't mind, I would point my supplementary question to the previous subject. In my opinion, the law is now being violated on the second day, namely Act 130 on the promotion of science and research. The failure of the information system of research, experimental development and innovation, which is a public administration system, brings us into a situation where it is unclear how the current achievements of science and research will be evaluated. It is unclear how projects will be allocated. For me, the fundamental question is: Was it intent, or is it insubordination or unwillingness?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u15	Thank you, ma'am. Prime Minister. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u16	Thank you. We saw a sharp shift in the framework of interpelation from one topic to another, because the first question was on inclusion, the second question was on the previous interpelation, which concerned the information system in the field of science and research. In any case, I can refer to what I said in my previous answer. It's not a problem I'd like to downplay in any way. This is a problem which arose as a result of the fact that we have an external supplier of the information system, which concluded the contract on 31 May of this year, and in the framework of a negotiated procedure without publication still ongoing, failed to achieve a satisfactory result, among other things due to the significant financial requirements of the existing information system operator. That's the reality at the moment. The information received from the Deputy Prime Minister Bělobrádek section indicates that negotiations are being continued in the context of the relevant negotiated procedure without publication and at the same time the Office is preparing alternative solutions. So much for the supplemental question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u17	Thank you, Prime Minister. Let's move on to the third interpellation. Mr Tomio Okamura will intersect Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on fascinating tendencies. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u18	Dear Prime Minister, your government finances extreme lobbyist and propaganda organizations that lobby for the reception of migrants and are paid for by Czech citizens' taxes, although most African and Arab migrants and Islam do not want to be in the Czech Republic. I say deliberately extreme, as these organizations go against not only the mainstream of society, but also incite hatred of other opinions. Moreover, at this point, you are considering censorship on the Internet, when again these extremist and propaganda organizations are supposed to be those who control, evaluate and report the wrong opinions. For example, the total budget of the HateFree project, which operates under the office of your government, is almost CZK 18 million. Of this, millions come directly from the Czech budget. Wouldn't it seem fair to give equal opportunities to those who have the opposite opinion? Shouldn't the state either not finance this unilateral propaganda or support both opinions in a balanced manner? So also the opposite view, which has long advocated our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy, the SPD, that Islam is incompatible with freedom and democracy, or that the migration wave in the current concept of the European Union will cause economic, social and security problems? Or do you, as Prime Minister, also support the fascinating tendencies of pro-migration activists, journalists and some politicians headed by your Mr. Dienstbier, when it is only their opinion that is correct and that needs to be supported by state-paid propaganda? And the other opposite views are targeted censored, ostracized or silenced?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u19	Thank you, Mr Okamur. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u20	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I believe, honourable Members, that politicians should try to solve problems. I think the people voted for us because they expect us to implement our program for which we ran and that we will solve the problems that society encounters or might encounter in the future. The big problem with which we were confronted, marginally in the Czech Republic, but especially in countries such as Greece, Italy and others, is the migration wave. And I am convinced that really active politicians should not have a tendency to parasite on the fear of citizens, they should not have a tendency to increase the fear of citizens, they should be concerned about people no matter what happens in the real world. I'm the last person who would like to downplay citizens' concerns about their security. And I have always acted this way at European Council level. It is not possible to underestimate citizens' concerns, but at the same time I do not agree with those, and here I have to confirm clearly, who are trying to use this fear of people to build their political career on it. I do not think that this is a good way and it will certainly not move us in any way in dealing with and responding to the migration crisis, which is an objective reality and with which Europe will meet for many years and years. I would like to take advantage of Mr Okamura's question, to make it clear that the Czech Government has been working intensively for two years to cope with the migration crisis within Europe. We have advocated, as V4 countries, the cessation of illegal migration in the Western Balkans. We have been convinced from the very beginning that it is not possible to deal with the regulation of migration without restoring checks at the borders of all the countries on the migration route. I am glad that we have finally succeeded in pushing through this solution that there is a consistent control today in the area of illegal migration not only at the border between Macedonia and Greece but also at the borders of other Balkan countries. What was called for by a group of V4 countries was promoted by the Czech Republic. There has been a halt to illegal migration in the Western Balkans. And I just want to remind you that in Macedonia, Czech police are helping that there are over 30 Czech police officers. I merely remind you that we have provided money to Macedonia, provided humanitarian support for Macedonia to be able to cope with this difficult situation in which it is located. The second important solution needed to be reached is the question of returning illegal refugees from Greece to Turkey. In a situation where Turkey did not take any real steps to prevent illegal migration from its territory, they were exposed in Greece to a situation where one country could not cope with such a massive influx of refugees. There had to be an agreement between the entire European Union and Greece. And I am glad that the agreement is being implemented and that the agreement between the European Union and Greece has led to real results and a decline in illegal migration. You know, we have never been the target country of migration. In the context of the crisis, we have always been only a transit country through which refugees crossed, most often to Germany. And I am glad that the migration current from Turkey to Greece has been minimized. Before we made a deal with Turkey and before we stopped the Balkan route, over 70,000 illegal refugees arrived in Greece in January. In April about 1,500 illegal refugees arrived in Greece. It's a drop from 70,000 per month to 1,500 per month. Thanks to the fact that we have pushed through two concrete measures - the cessation of illegal migration in the Western Balkans and the return of refugees from Greece to Turkey. Those who don't get asylum in Greece. This, in my opinion, is the right response to the migration crisis. Not to provoke hatred, not to upset people, not to create problems where the problem is not. In the Czech Republic, we have no problem with refugees. In the Czech Republic, the government is in control of the security situation and our government is involved in the European solution to the migration crisis.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u21	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Okamura has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u22	Dear Prime Minister, as always, you are confusing the cause with the result, because it is primarily the European Union's actions and the servility of your government. And you don't answer the questions either. I have heard that your government has allocated 4.3 billion to support migrants in the Czech Republic. Crowns. Is that true? Can you confirm this number? Therefore, in this context, I also ask you, in writing within 30 days, to communicate the exact sum of money received from public funds last year by all nonprofit and other organisations dealing with migration in the Czech Republic, i.e. the care of migrants and so on. How many subjects are there? And please make an exact list. Same number and data for this year, please. So how much is planned to pay these organisations and to which and how much they cost the state last year to deal with migration? I mean, including military costs, police officers, etc. How much is the estimate that it will cost according to estimates of the Czech Republic and its citizens this year. And we all know that this is money at the expense of our needy Czech citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u23	Mr. Ambassador, without prejudice to the Prime Minister's reply, I'm sure these numbers aren't in his head. Next time, please use a written interpelation for this form. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u24	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I will certainly ask the Office to draw up the necessary figures and to supplement the interpelation and answers to Mr Okamur. However, I can already assure him that the real expenditure will be significantly lower this year. The expenditure on refugees will be significantly lower than we counted in the draft state budget, because we have succeeded in combining the two measures that I have named here, i.e. the closure of the Balkan migration route and the return of refugees from Greece to Turkey, so we managed to dramatically reduce the migratory current that we experienced last year when people freely passed through Turkey throughout the Balkans to the heart of Europe, and Europe absolutely did not have migration under control in that situation. Expenditure will be lower but not zero because there are people who have the right to obtain asylum in the Czech Republic. There are people who have the right to gain international protection in the Czech Republic. We are helping these people, and we will continue to help them. And one of the forms of helping them integrate into society is cooperation with non-profit organizations. It is a Catholic charity that we are working with, which is the main partner of the Ministry of the Interior this year in the area of integration of refugees into our society. But I think there are two things that need to be distinguished. Firstly, the massive uncontrolled illegal migration and, secondly, the implementation of the valid asylum law that the Czech Republic respects and will respect as a civilised democratic country that professes humanitarian ideals. Of course, we must fight illegal migration, we must limit it, but at the same time, if it is people who have the right to asylum, they need help.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u25	Thank you, Prime Minister. Let's move on to the fourth interpellation. Mr Adolf Beznoska will intersect the Prime Minister on the drawing of subsidies from European funds. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u26	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Mr Prime Minister, I have caught your criticism of the various departments in recent days that they are very poorly prepared for drawing and very poorly pumping European subsidies. The same criticism was also expressed from the mouth of representatives or from the Minister for Regional Development. When I looked at the statistics, the Ministry of Industry and Trade has dealt with 4,600 applications since the beginning of the year about 300. I therefore ask, Prime Minister, what measures have you taken to ensure the successful operation of European subsidies in individual departments. That's the first question. And the second question: In what resort or resorts do you see the greatest shortcomings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u27	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u28	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, when I spoke here about the fact that the information system of science and research is not a subject that I would personally deal with in detail, I must point out that this subject, mentioned by Mr Beznoska in my interpelation, is a subject which I personally deal with. I consider this to be one of my priorities as Prime Minister, and my goal is to achieve a good, fast start of drawing new European funds in the current financial perspective that we are part of. I am trying to use the instrument I have as Prime Minister, which means that I chair the Council of the Government for European Structural and Investment Funds, this is the Council of the Government, in which both the social partners are represented and, of course, all the ministries concerned, which are directly responsible for drawing European funds. This means, in particular, the management bodies of each operational programme are represented there. We are now regularly discussing the meetings of the ESIF Council on how the drawing of European funds is starting, what is the volume of calls announced, how information systems work, there have already been several talks about information systems here today, and how the so-called preliminary conditions on which we agreed with the European Commission at the time when operational programmes were approved and the Partnership Agreement was approved. Very briefly about where I feel a certain problem or where I have felt it in the past days and weeks. You know that I have expressed myself in the sense that I am not satisfied with the speed at which we are starting to draw European funds. I've asked some specific ministries to make some progress. I'm glad that after the call, the activities on the Ministry of Finance accelerated. They have been speeding up in particular with regard to the question, therefore, already setting some clear timetable for the course of the design audit this year. We haven't finished this design audit yet. And you know for sure that those design audits are a condition for us to draw European money from the European budget. That means that at this point, we are funding these projects from our sources, but in order to get the money directly from the European Union, we need to have realized, completed appropriate design audits. This is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and of the various operational programmes. At the meeting we had yesterday, we have already heard a clear timetable for how the design audit processes should be completed this year. The second important issue concerns central management of financial instruments. This is actually a reinforced element now within the current financial perspective. Here too, I want the government to know in a short time how financial instruments will be used, if we choose any centralized form. The next topic is preliminary terms. We have reviewed the fulfilment of the preliminary conditions. The quantity of pre-conditions which are already fully met is increased. Some remain that will still have to be fulfilled during this year. Once again, we have specific timetables. This is a question of the high-speed internet strategy, one of the things where the preliminary condition has not yet been fulfilled. This year we need to make sure we don't have a problem here. We are dealing with the continuous functioning of the monitoring system, which ensures the drawing of European funds. Here I am glad that there is basically daily communication so that the operation of the MS 2014+ system is optimized and there are no problems. According to the figures I've heard this week, the challenges of each operational programme cover about 49 percent of the entire allocation we have for this financial period. So we have announced challenges of about 49 percent of the total allocation. Of course, we would like to move to a larger percentage in the coming months. And in proportion to how individual applications will now be processed, the process of their administration is already under way within each operational programme. They were paid by the certifying authority at the Ministry of Finance already the first funds to the Operational Programme Employment and I assume that other operational programmes could ask for reimbursement of funds during this summer. So the process is starting. I'm trying to push all the responsible ministers to make things go fast.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u29	Thank you, Prime Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u30	That won't be an additional question. In the first place, I would like to thank the Prime Minister, because I find the answer satisfactory from my point of view. I appreciate that personally, personally, he's making sure that we're running out of 650 billion. But I still have one point to make. At the end of the year, we're going to do statistics like this, and I'm going to request, in writing, an interview, how we're really doing at the end of the year. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u31	Although you don't ask, the Prime Minister wants an additional answer. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u32	Thank you. I'll be very brief. I assume that not only the Member, but also the public will be interested in how the government will manage to start drawing on European funds this year, so we are certainly ready to put all the figures that will apply this year. Of course, we are discussing something that the next government will take after us after the next elections to the Chamber of Deputies, and my goal is that we pass on the system, the process, the pace of drawing European funds to the next government in good condition. So that's what we're going to try to do, and I'm hoping that the numbers we're going to publish at the end of this year will be satisfactory.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u33	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now, Mrs Věra Kovářová, who has the fifth interpellation on high-speed Internet. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u34	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, last week a report appeared in the media saying that the Minister of Industry Jan Mládek would not submit to the government a plan to develop high-speed Internet by the end of June, as promised and, after all, how the government succeeded. At least that's what the new government coordinator for the digital agenda, Tomáš Prouza, said. In response to this communication, the Ministry of Industry said the opposite. It is not the end of June and the Minister will be able to present the plan. Concern is in order. It's a lot of money, money from European funds. If the government coordinator, who is not a member of the government, evaluates the situation differently than the responsible Ministry led by a member of the government, I cannot but sigh that the coordinator is probably not very coordinated yet. But most importantly, I want to ask you the real state of affairs directly as the superiors of Mr. Mládek and Prouza. I think there is no need to explain that the National Plan for the development of new generation networks is an important document without which we could lose CZK 14 billion to develop high-speed Internet in regions. And it should be added that it is about the fact that the final version of the document is already of good quality, which unfortunately has not yet been achieved in the case of its eight previous versions. Dear Prime Minister, is Mr Prouza right or Mr Mládek right? Will the final version of the proposal still be submitted to the government in June or not, and so will the government's resolution be violated? Are we at risk of losing 14 billion crowns? And who and how will be responsible for this? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u35	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u36	Yes. I would like, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, to thank Mrs Kovářová for her intervention. And I mean it, because I think it's good that we put pressure on the Ministry of Industry and Trade from all sides, if possible. So I also see this interpelation as part of the permanent pressure that Minister Mládek must feel, and which, in particular, must feel his officials, so that what the Ministry has promised will actually come true. Therefore, if there was a question which concerned the completion or failure of the deadline for the submission of the relevant documents by 30 June of this year, Minister Mládek assured me that this deadline was 30. 6. 2016 for the submission of relevant material to the Government will be respected. That is, perhaps the most important answer to the interpellation of the honourable Member. Otherwise, I must say that I am not pleased with the fact that one of the very preliminary conditions that I mentioned in the previous response to the interpelation, the preliminary condition, which is called the infrastructure of the new generation access networks, has not yet been met. That preliminary condition has a deadline of 30. The Ministry of Industry and Trade is the guarantor for this condition this year. This means that Minister Mládek has a clear responsibility for the fulfilment of this preliminary condition and also has a clear personal responsibility for the preparation of the National Plan for the development of new generation networks. I would just like to clarify on the basis of the information I received today from the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I would like to remind you that starting on 31 March this year, the Minister is reporting monthly reports to the Government on the implementation of the relevant action plan. So far, everything has gone according to this action plan approved by the government. The last report for May is on the agenda of the Government's meeting on 8 June 2016. And since it is a public document, I can, of course, recommend to Members and Members this document for study. This report notes, inter alia, that as of 27 April, the Czech Telecommunications Authority entered 1,848 out of a total of 2,220 forms with geographical attachments allocated to the Internet service provider, i.e. 83 %. He returned about 11 percent of the forms to repair. So far, the data hasn't given up around 140 entrepreneurs, which means 6 percent. In general, the number of submitted and verified data is at a high level and allows you to identify and picture the state of coverage of the Czech Republic through new generation access networks. By 30 May, according to the action plan, the Czech Telecommunications Authority transmitted to the Ministry of Industry and Trade the required initial and processed data and from them created maps of coverage of the Czech Republic through networks of Internet access. This, I think, is an important outcome and an important progress towards the preparation of the entire document. At the same time, regular communication with the European Commission on the state of the processing of the National Plan for the development of new generation networks is ongoing. So we are now in the phase where this document is in cooperation with the professional public, with the ČTÚ, in the final stage of processing. During June, comments from the inter-ministerial commentary procedure should be settled and the Ministry of Industry and Trade will submit the National Plan for the Development of New Generation Networks to the Government by 30 June this year. Subsequently, this material will also be submitted to the European Commission by 30 November to meet the preliminary condition. So so many basic data relating to interpelation. I firmly believe that we will also be able to make use of the relevant European subsidy and the possibility of drawing funds from European funds in the area of preparing to improve the coverage of the Czech Republic through high-speed internet. I just want to point out that the 14 billion often mentioned in European funds cannot be solved and does not address the issue of connection to high-speed Internet throughout the Czech Republic. For this, much larger investments will be needed by private providers of this connection. These are funds that we will be able to use in specific regions in which there is no and will not be a chance to improve Internet connection without this support and without this subsidy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u37	Thank you, Prime Minister. Please, Madame, with an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u38	Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. I think it's the date of 30. 6. and then 30. 11. 2016 is very important to meet the preliminary condition. So I want to ask you: you said that the Minister is personally responsible for this. You will then consider if the Minister fails to present the plan by 30. 6. Will you call off Minister Mládek? Because the threat to those 14 billion is a serious matter. High-speed Internet and its development in the Czech Republic is an essential condition for the development of the economy of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u39	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister, how is Minister Mládek?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u40	Madam, honourable Members, I believe that, also on the basis of this pressure, which was personally represented here by Mrs Kovářová's interpelation, Minister Mládek is sufficiently motivated to meet the relevant deadlines and to achieve, on the one hand, the conditions for drawing up European funds and, on the other hand, the preliminary condition, which has also been mentioned repeatedly today, will also be met.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u41	Thank you, Prime Minister. And from a distance we motivate Minister Mládek. Mr Marek Černoch, who will interpel the Prime Minister in the matter of the University Hospital in Hradec Králové, will give the sixth interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u42	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to ask about the entrepreneurial skills of one of the directors directly managed by the hospitals of the Ministry of Health, namely Mr. Roman Prymula of the Hradec Králové University Hospital. From publicly accessible documents, and as the media have pointed out, this director of a large faculty hospital is also a procurist at Biovet's daughter, who studies and lives in Florida for a long time. Yet it is so handy that only in 2014 this 26-year-old girl was able to create professional materials and studies for 41 million crowns. It's extremely suspicious. Therefore, Prime Minister, I wonder - is it okay for a director of such a large hospital to do business under the cover of his daughter in the field of health care? To what extent do you believe that Biovet collected tens of millions of crowns for professional materials and studies of a 26-year-old student living overseas? How do you rule out that the hospital director of such a suspect, for example, didn't cash in through his daughter's company money from companies that deal with the Hradec Králové faculty hospital and whether you're going to deal with these weird and possibly dirty business and ask for an explanation from the Minister of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u43	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u44	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, at this point I take it as a warning to the data concerning the director of the Hradec Králové University Hospital, Mr Roman Prymula. I must say that these are new facts to me that I have not been informed of before. I will ask the Minister of Health Němeček to examine this matter and to inform not only me but also Mr Černoch, who has raised this question today at the intercessions. So I'm going to want the whole thing checked out so that this information is verified and it's obvious whether or not there is a conflict of interest in this case, or whether or not there is an infringement of some internal rules or laws of the Czech Republic. I would like this matter to be examined, assessed and subsequently provided with written information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u45	Thank you, Prime Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u46	Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. Only an additional question, if you are able to say any term, until we should have this information at our disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u47	Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u48	Thank you. I will ask Minister Němeček to give written information to Mr Černoch and, of course, all other interested parties within the week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u49	Thank you for a very clear answer. Mr Jan zahradník, who will interpelise Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on measures to reduce drought and water shortages, will give the seventh interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u50	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, on 30 May, the government also had a point on the agenda entitled "Proposal for measures to reduce the consequences of drought and water shortages in the Czech Republic" and express the financial needs of their implementation. The material I read notes the difficulty of preparing the construction of dam tanks, the difficulty of introducing changes in the farming style in order to strengthen water retention in the landscape, the statement that the intention to implement the dam tank must be calculated with at least twenty-five years, notes the need to apply a number of other minor measures - an increase in retention of ponds, small water tanks, an increase in stock volumes of water by removing sediments, debugging, increasing dams. Everything's fine. I very much appreciate the government's efforts. The money you intend to invest in this is in the tens of billions of crowns, roughly three billion for each year from the next five years to 2021, including money from European funds, where roughly 39 billion from the European Union's resources are available. It is just not clear to me how, at the same time, the government can support such measures very desirable and you as Prime Minister can also support the approval of Act No. 114 on the conservation of nature, which introduces to the vast majority of Šumava unattractiveness, which, as it turns out, leads to the fact that Šumava is drying up, losing its retention capacity, ceases to fulfil the task of being a water-accumulating system. I am asking why - and I am trying to take advantage of the last opportunity to draw your attention here to this problem, whether you would consider denying the law, subjecting it to further analysis, and whether you would still consider going back to that on the basis of new expertise, not just from scientists associated with environmental activists. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u51	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u52	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would like to confirm that our government is the first one that has started systematically addressing the problem of drought. It is not just a question of last year when we ourselves saw the consequences of climate change in the area of drought here in the Czech Republic. It is a problem of long-term development that we feel. This means that we see average annual temperatures gradually rising, and we watch the average annual rainfall decrease accordingly. So we see climate change. Now I don't want to talk about what its causes are, this can undoubtedly be a long discussion, one can argue to what extent it is a person's fault, to what extent it is a question of a cycle that transcends us. However, we are going through a climate change period and I am convinced that we need to start preparing more intensively for these climate change. That means we stopped wasting time. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Environment started working on the preparation of relevant documents. A Voda-Sucho Interministerial Commission was created and a conceptual document is created that should respond to this question. This means that a climate change adaptation strategy is being prepared under the conditions of the Czech Republic, a national action plan is being prepared for adaptation to this climate change and measures are being prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture to respond to the expected risks in the field of drought. With regard to the spending of funds, it is clear that this will not be a one-time thing that several governments will have to devote themselves to this area within several terms of office. However, I think it is important that we have concrete strategies and that we be able to influence behaviour in the landscape, influence the behaviour of governments, economic operators, citizens so that we can implement, as far as possible, measures that will improve our preparedness for water shortages and improve our readiness for global warming. I would like to stress that our territory is significantly more vulnerable than the surrounding states. Practically all the water drains away from us to our neighbors. Our water resources depend on atmospheric collisions and available water reserves, which are per capita, are among the lower ones in the Czech Republic within the European Union. I don't think it's possible to underestimate the situation. If we look at the forecasts, if we look at climate maps, we are already able to estimate which parts of the Republic will be burdened with enormous drought in the coming years. And that change must come in the field of agriculture, and it must also, of course, come in the area of urbanization, and we must use all available technologies, new knowledge, new experience to adapt to climate change. I do not think that the government's conceptual effort to prepare for the drought that is likely to be ahead of us in the coming years is contrary to the efforts of the Ministry of the Environment to have modern legislation and legislative framework here, which will concern Šumava and its further development in the coming years. I am not aware that there are contradictions between the efforts of the government, the Ministry of the Environment, agriculture to achieve measures that improve the availability, quality of water, water resources, and our efforts to establish a sensible, modern way of regulating the functioning of the National Park in Sumava.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u53	Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u54	My question will be whether you, Prime Minister, personally, or your government, had an expert opinion on how the amendment to Act No. 114, which can result in an even greater drying of Sumava. I wonder if you've had that evaluation done. Whether you know at all that the drying of Sumava, today there are two million dried trees, which significantly reduce water capacity, it can all get worse, without interference with it obviously brings with it other crust sludges, further drying, further loss of water absorption capacity - if you are aware of this threat. If you're aware of that and you didn't let the experts do it, then the guilt will fall on your head, because Sumava can become a truly dry territory. My question is whether you've had such expertise done by scientists who don't belong in the camp of environmental activists.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u55	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Prime Minister, your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u56	Thank you. I am convinced that if there are facts on the table, if there are analyses on the table that draw attention to similar risks, that is why we have a debate over them. It's a reason not to ignore them. I would therefore like that, if there are experts here, that there are things here, experts have a comprehensive view of this issue, who are able to really forecast the consequences of some specific regulatory measures relating to Šumava, so that they publish these expertise in order to make them available to the government, and we are undoubtedly prepared to deal with them. And I will certainly want the guarantor of the relevant law, Minister Brabec, who is the Minister of the Environment, to comment on them in particular. So, sure, let's put these things on the table, let's talk about them, let's look for a sensible solution. I think this government is interested in making sure that we are well prepared for those future risks and that we use the potential we have in the Czech Republic to ensure availability of water and sufficient quality water for our citizens in the coming years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u57	That was the answer to the seventh interview. Mr Petr Fiala, who will interpelate the Prime Minister on the state budget, will give an eighth interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u58	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, on Monday, the Government dealt with the draft budget for next year, i.e. for 2017, and that should have been, I recall, the year for which the Finance Minister promised to present a balanced budget. As we know from this information, the budget will not be balanced. It is expected to reach a deficit that will exceed at least CZK 50 billion, talking about 60 billion, we will see where it ends. And if I compare it to 2013, we'll see that you'll have CZK 156 billion more at your disposal. 156 billion! But the deficit was reduced by only 31 billion. So if you put the numbers together, and I simplify it so we don't have to count it, that means you spend $125 more in one year. And it turns out that it doesn't matter if the economy is growing, falling, or stagnating, because the government in which social democracy is, doesn't manage responsibly and doesn't use, for example, economic growth at this point in time to do something about our budget. I therefore want to ask you, Prime Minister, how do you justify that you have CZK 156 billion more, and yet you are unable to save $50 billion and stop indebting us all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u59	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u60	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Czech economy is growing. It is, of course, not just an autonomous matter that is completely independent of the government's economic policy. I am convinced that the government's economic policy has also contributed to this, that the Czech economy is growing. I am very pleased that we have low unemployment, even at the beginning of this year we have reached countries that have the lowest unemployment ever in the European Union. And we can expect that the growth of the Czech economy, if we are not threatened by any external imbalances, should continue in 2017. This naturally allows the government to continue to implement its programme, because we, when we went into government and agreed as three coalition parties, agreed to promote a change in economic policy, that was a good thing. This change in economic policy leads to lower unemployment, generating additional tax revenues. And we agreed that we would use the additional tax revenue to improve the functioning of the state, prepare it better for risks and strengthen social cohesion. And when we talk about risk preparation, a large part of the funds that we're going to have in the state budget are going to go to higher defense spending, the money goes to higher internal security spending as well. We are strengthening the number of police officers, stabilizing firefighters, increasing the number of soldiers, and preparing for security risks, which, unfortunately, are reality in today's world. There's nothing else we can do. Another important issue concerns ensuring the good functioning of the state. This is related to services in the field of education and health. I am convinced that we have an effective health care system. We give relatively little to health care compared to other countries, we give about 7 percent of gross domestic product, but it is at the cost of having enormously overloaded doctors in hospitals, and at the cost of having enormously overloaded nurses in hospitals. The hospital care is going through quite a lot of tension today and it keeps running thanks to the maximum deployment and the maximum dedication of everyone who cares about the organization of hospital care. If we are to ensure the good functioning of health care, we must improve the remuneration of doctors and nurses. There will be another significant part of the additional tax revenue and also a higher collection of health insurance. We expect about seven billion crowns from health insurance, respectively. Of the total payments, we will provide next year to improve the salaries of doctors in hospitals and medical staff in hospitals. That's another spending priority. We have children from strong population classes who have attended kindergarten schools in recent years. I would like to point out that when a child goes from primary school to public school, the cost of the state of education increases. And by increasing the number of children in the first, second, third classes of primary schools, of course, we must also adjust the expenditure of the state. And I am convinced that it is also good to improve the pay of teachers, because if you look at their average salary compared to other higher education professions in the state sector, that salary is below average. So we want another part of the state budget money to go in. Next year we expect the state budget deficit to be around CZK 60 billion, so there should be a decline of approximately CZK 10 billion next year compared to this year's approved state budget deficit. So, in addition to trying to improve the functioning of the state, we also approach a slightly lower state budget deficit. And perhaps the last point concerns social cohesion. I am glad that we have agreed here in the Chamber of Deputies in recent weeks that our seniors deserved a slightly higher valorisation than the 40 crowns they received this January. And the government is trying to make the valorization higher, i.e. We want to allocate the necessary funds from the state budget so that the valuation is at least CZK 200 on average next year, i.e. to improve valorisation and enable seniors to participate, at least in this form, in the improved economic situation of the state. So much for the main spending priorities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u61	Thank you, Prime Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador, do you have an additional question?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u62	Well, Prime Minister, it can be given away, of course, anything, and there are always reasons why it should be done. But I'm afraid from what you've been describing here, if we ask the citizens if they really knew that the economy was growing so much and that they had higher salaries, they'll tell you that they didn't. But we all see that the state has a higher cost. And look, you forgot to name officials in that list of people you're raising the state's apparatus, and you just mentioned professions that we all agree need. But increasing red tape in our state, you forgot that. And that's what a substantial part of the funds are all about. You also did not talk about burdening those who create this prosperity with ever new and new obligations - businessmen, entrepreneurs - and that you are threatening that prosperity. And when you talk about risks, it's debt, debt, deficit, it's one of the risks. And it became quite clear in the economic crisis. So I don't understand why when you have the option, you don't work with that risk, you don't lower it, but instead you're introducing it into that system, even if you don't have to. $125 billion extra.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u63	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Prime Minister, your follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u64	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I believe that faster wage growth in the Czech economy would also help stabilise public budgets. And I certainly agree with those who say that in a situation where the economy is growing, wages should also grow. Now I'm not just talking about the salaries of people who work in the public sector, but I'm talking about the wages of people, employees who work in the private sector. The government is trying to exert some pressure on this. We're going to have a debate about a further increase in minimum wage. And also by trying to increase the salaries of people working for the public sector, we are also providing a signal to the economy in the sense that now is a good time for wage growth. We have low unemployment, we have low inflation. On the contrary, in many professions, in many companies people are missing, i.e. the evaluation can be improved. Firms are growing profits. This is what we see in improved corporate tax collection. That means companies are growing profits, so they can share them with their employees. I do not agree that, in a situation where the economy is growing - and in addition to that, we have a number of problems with the practical functioning of the state and public services - that we are to bring the budget deficit down from 60 billion per day. To zero. This could certainly be done purely mathematically, purely accountingly, but what practical consequences it would have for people's lives and for the economy in the Czech Republic. I am not in favour of such radical steps. I am convinced that we should gradually reduce the deficit, but this reduction must be spread over a longer period of time, so that this does not mean malfunctioning in the functioning of the public sector, in order to ensure the service of the state to citizens, and also in order to enable the State to invest in infrastructure, because, particularly in the field of transport, we still have huge debts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u65	Thank you. Mr Jaroslav Holík will give the ninth interview. He will intersect the Prime Minister on the upcoming European directive on weapons. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u66	Dear Prime Minister, yesterday I read with surprise - and now I quote: "Despite the resistance of the Czech Republic, the European Union's states are likely to impose strict restrictions on weapons." Prime Minister, this restriction will limit not only sports shooters, hunters, legal gunholders, but also significantly reduce our state's defenses. And we all know that we can't rely on our relegated professional army. Prime Minister, can you answer the question, please, why is there an effort to restrict the legal possession of a weapon? I do not accept your answer that this is about terrorism. Terrorists never legally buy guns. And if you want to hear the opinions of most Čech I've talked to, everyone says - it's so the victims can't fight back. If I watch the European Commission treat us, it reminds me of September 29, 1938. So the fate of our republic will once again be decided by our allies - us without us. If there is no change in the European Union, its future in its current form is unsustainable. The European Commission's activities are now coming from a democratic and free Europe. How else am I supposed to understand the support of the influx of low-adaptable migrants, the proposal for mandatory quotas, the event. forced redemption for non-compliance with these quotas and criticism of any security measures at the border? [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] A few words... Our direct democracy movement agrees so that every healthy citizen can have a weapon. It would reduce the attack if the aggressor wasn't sure if he'd run into active resistance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u67	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Prime Minister, your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u68	Thank you. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, my answer will be longer this time, because I would really like to describe in detail and structured terms the situation we are in at the moment. The proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the current directive on the control and acquisition and possession of weapons is what has been mentioned here in the interview. The proposal was tabled by the European Commission on 18 November last year in an effort to improve the fight against terrorism. Although the Czech Republic considered some of the partial proposed changes to be useful, I must say that, overall, from the very beginning, we considered this proposal to be highly problematic, especially with regard to the scope of the prohibition. semi-automatic weapons. The Czech Republic is concerned that this amended directive will have a fundamentally negative impact on legal arms holders, on their manufacturers and on a number of other persons who have not yet been forced to follow the arms management legislation. As part of the discussion of this legislative proposal, the Dutch Presidency shall, as of March 2016, submit revised versions of its wording which are, in principle, even worse than the Commission's original proposal. The Czech Republic estimates that the Presidency's proposals could lead to a ban on several hundred thousand weapons. The Czech Republic is concerned that the proposed form of the directive could pose significant risks in terms of internal security. We've been negotiating very actively all along. We consistently drew attention to the negative attitude. We have put forward our specific alternative proposals to adapt this proposal so that the directive becomes acceptable to the Czech Republic. We have also tried to move forward in coordination with other V4 countries. Common position was expressed by ministers V4 on 19 January this year. The V4 ministers also spoke together at the meeting of the Justice and Home Affairs Council on 10 March this year. At present, the position of the Czech Republic on the proposal from all Member States is the most critical. I would therefore like to point out that this is the Czech Republic, which most of the 28 countries of the European Union point to the risks of this proposal. The position of the Czech Republic is close to the position of Slovakia, Poland, Austria and also Switzerland. On the contrary, France, Spain, Portugal, Italy, Croatia and Sweden are among the biggest supporters of the major tightening of the regulation of firearms and the main supporters of this proposal. The Dutch Presidency wants to present this proposal for a directive at the Justice and Home Affairs Council meeting on 10 June this year. Meanwhile, we assume that the proposal will not accept such changes that would allow the Czech Republic to support it. The Czech Republic is therefore very likely to express its negative position at the Council meeting on 10 June and we will repeat our reasons why we cannot accept the directive in its proposed form. The Council shall approve this proposal by a qualified majority. At this point, therefore, I cannot anticipate the outcome of this vote, but I can confirm that the Czech Republic will not support the proposal on the Council. If he doesn't make major changes, we won't vote for him. And on this occasion, we will also issue a written declaration explaining clearly the reasons for our disagreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u69	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u70	Dear Prime Minister, thank you for your comments. Just for refills. There was prohibition in America in the '30s. Alcohol wasn't allowed to sell. And we all know how it turned out. And something like this could happen here. Whoever wants to protect his family could get guns illegally, and we certainly don't want that. On behalf of the citizens of the Czech Republic, I ask you once again - use your mandate and, together with the V4 countries, say clear and decisive no!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u71	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Petr Bendl, who will interpel the Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on the drawing of funds from the European Union in 2015, will give the tenth interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, often and gladly criticize the current government coalition of drawdown, virtually. failure to draw funds from European Union funds in the past period. However, we have been discussing and discussing the closed chapters of the state budget last year, and suddenly we find that your ministers, Prime Minister, are having huge difficulties in drawing funds from 2014 to 2020. That is why I want to ask you whether you know how much money from the European Union funds your ministers had at their disposal in the various chapters they were managing, and how much budget money was drawn in the end. I wonder if you know the difference. And I want to ask you if you're ready to take personnel measures in the government if the situation happens again this year. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u73	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u74	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, allow me to respond to the intervention. It builds on the topic that we have discussed here today, which is the question of drawing European funds from the new programming period 2014 to 2020. I want to repeat that there are 650 billion reserved for use in the Czech Republic. Crowns. There are seven years plus, according to rule N+3, three more years for which these funds can be drawn. Yesterday, on the premises of the Chamber of Deputies, the ESIF Council met here, which means the specialised Government Council for European Structural and Investment Funds, which dealt with the issue of the balance of drawback from European sources. It said that by 30 April this year, 252 calls were announced for all programmes with an allocation of 313 billion as of the beginning of the programming period. Crowns. As I have already said, as of today, the total volume of calls represents around 49 percent of the total allocation in favour of the Czech Republic. Of all the programmes so far, the largest number of challenges has been announced by the Transport Operational Programme, the Employment Operational Programme and the Integrated Regional Operational Programme. On 30 April 2016, aid applications were submitted for a total of 188 billion. Crowns. In the context of the calls announced, legal acts on the granting of the transfer of aid of a total amount of 35,8 billion were concluded by the end of April. Crowns. The state of funds in paid-up payment claims reached 9,2 billion by 30 April 2016. Crowns. The figures that I have mentioned here confirm that the Czech Republic is starting to really draw funds under individual operational programmes. This means that this year will be the first year of the new financial perspective 2014 to 2020, when funds will be actually drawn and reimbursed. First, therefore, in the framework of pre-financing from the state budget, and as I firmly believe, and then also subsequently by transferring these funds from the European Union funds to the Czech Republic. So many actual numbers that relate to the state of draw. I just want to stress that these are certainly not the figures that I would be satisfied with as Prime Minister. I try to make sure that individual departments pay priority attention to this matter, starting with the Ministry of Finance through the Ministry of Regional Development to all the ministries in charge of individual operational programmes. I think the government is working together on this. We also cooperate in fulfilling the so-called. pre-conditions. The point is not to complicate negotiations with the European Commission and the drawing of European funds. And, of course, the government's aim is that we spend the maximum amount of money in the first few years and do not arise here for the government that will come after us, a major problem in terms of drawing funds from the European Union. So the goal is to use this year and next year to make the most of the real draw.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u75	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u76	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, I did not ask you how much is allocated to the whole Czech Republic and how much of this is already being drawn. Even though you said 650 billion. allocated and 9.2 billion. for two years, because we are in 2016 and it is funding for the period 2014 to 2020. You have to know that yourself. And I welcome your activity, which I have seen in the media, more efforts to push individual ministers to make use of the funds. However, we have been in this financial period for 2.5 years and we are at the level of 9.2 billion you were talking about. Which is, I dare say, catastrophically little, and in individual chapters it is obvious. But I asked you about the number that your ministers had themselves approved in individual chapters. Funds from European funds. They put it in their budget, and they didn't. If you know the number that goes with what the ministers said they'd do, and eventually it didn't. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you. I just need one number.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u77	Please, Prime Minister, your follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u78	Thank you. I now, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, will not read a table here in detail which shows the situation at the various departments. I just want to say that this summary number, which we are counting on as a minimum for this year, is 16 billion. together, which we would like to exhaust this year. That means at least 16 billion cross-cuttingly. Kroner, but of course we'll see if we can get a better number. However, this year will be the first real year when we start drawing on European funds. Why couldn't it have been 2015? For a simple reason. In 2015, we achieved only in the middle of the year that all operational programmes were approved by the European Commission, and subsequently, although there was a lot of pressure, challenges were obviously being prepared. Some of the calls were launched before the end of last year, but a large part of the calls were launched in the spring of this year. This means that we are moving forward as the agreements and negotiations with the European Commission will allow us to do. However, it was not possible to obtain approval of operational programmes last year at an earlier date. That's just what all the next steps are for. So much for the number that we expect cross-cuttingly for all the resorts. And of course, the government's goal is to make that number, if possible, higher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u79	Thank you for this additional answer. If there is no protest, I will give one last interview to Prime Minister Váhalová and then we will go to the interpelations with the various ministers. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, ministers, colleagues, colleagues, modern society is currently facing new threats. These include terrorism, extremism, security aspects, migration, anthropogenic and natural threats. Ensuring citizens' security should be a key priority for every government. According to information from the seminar, more than 120 government experts and six external consultants participate in the work of national security audit. It is intended to assess our country's readiness for security threats, but also to define further steps to further strengthen security. In this context, I would like to ask about the current results of the national security audit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u81	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Prime Minister, your final answer today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u82	I really don't know how much time I have right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u83	You have as much time as you want. [[Yes, thank you.]] Five minutes, tops.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u84	Five minutes, tops. I was afraid it would be one minute. I don't think I could make it. However, the matter of national security audit is serious. This is one of the key conceptual steps we have taken to respond to the deterioration of the security situation in the world, especially in the EU. I am regularly informed about the development of audit work. The first stage of the audit process has already shown that we can find weak spots in the system, come up with suggestions on how to improve the security system in our country. There's a lot of teams working. So far, we're on schedule. We assume that the final text of the national security audit will be processed in a non-classified regime. In the first stage, five chapters have been presented - chapters of terrorism, extremism, migration, anthropogenic threats and natural threats. Outputs from these first five chapters are currently being revised on the basis of expert comments from external consultants, as well as representatives of the Management Committee and national security audit. The Steering Committee shall meet again on these texts in the second half of June and the measures resulting from these chapters as recommendations to the Government shall be released for public debate after approval by the Steering Committee. So we will not wait until the overall outcome of the national security audit, but gradually they will be released to the public debate of individual parts, which will include outputs. Further audit chapters should be finalised at the end of June. These include cyberspace threats, energy, raw materials and industrial security, foreign power, organised crime, and hybrid threats. And also an independent chapter that is processed by the Czech National Bank, the stability of the currency and financial institutions. Once again, when we have the results of these chapters, there will be a conference on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, followed by an academic opponent and a classic commentary system. It is expected that working seminars will also be held during the processing of these chapters on individual areas, and I hope that the full timetable will be followed as established, and it will still be the current government, which will be able to complete the work on national security audits and present concrete recommendations that should lead to strengthening the security of citizens in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u85	Thank you, Prime Minister. Madame and its supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u86	Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. As I know, the audit has already revealed to us that it is necessary for the state to have a centre that will comprehensively monitor terrorist and hybrid threats and so-called. propaganda of foreign power. The Gestor should be the Ministry of the Interior. I would just like to ask if the form and tools of such a centre are already specified, or whether it will be specified after the discussions that will still be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u87	Please, Prime Minister, now the final and supplementary answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u88	Thank you. I really don't want to steal time to interpel the ministers anymore, so just very briefly. It is one of the interim audit outputs, which means the need for a center to fight terrorism and hybrid threats. We assume that this matter will be developed in more detail both in terms of what institution the Centre should operate in, as well as in terms of the task and award of its activities. This will also require the inclusion of the issue of coordination of the functioning of the secret services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u89	I thank the Prime Minister not only for this, but for all the answers to today's interpelations. And we're going to interpel to individual members of the government. Mr Jaroslav Holík will be the first to interpel Mr Milan Chovanec, but I do not see Mr Holík here. He's not present, so his interpellation is failing. Mr Josef Kott will interpel the Minister for Regional Development Karla Šlechtová on the amendment to the Funeral Law. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u90	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear members of the government, Madam Secretary, colleagues, I come from an area where two prominent coffin companies are based and therefore have the need to comment on this law. And my question, Madam Secretary, is: When drafting an amendment to the Funeral Act, it seems to me that your colleagues from KDU-ČSL beat you to a certain extent. This means that I would like to ask if the Ministry will continue to work on the amendment, or if so. how do you feel about the amendment of the law prepared by KDU colleagues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u91	I thank the honourable Member for this funeral theme. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u92	Mr President, honourable Member, I have seen two questions, but I would like to begin by saying that the Ministry of Regional Development is preparing a comprehensive amendment to the Funeral Law. Basically, 14 days after my appointment to office, right around 24 October 2014, I decided that we would be doing the novel when I found out how it looked at the MMR that there wasn't a single employee involved, and what a mess it is in this area. I would like to mention that a comprehensive amendment cannot be summed up in just one thing, and I am now heading to one question, what I believe about the proposal of KDU-ČSL Members. In our complex novel, we're giving one of those things that we're really going to change, and that's the possibility of burying dead babies. The proposal of fellow Members from another club is almost identical, but unfortunately it is not factually and legislatively correct, because this is a matter which must also be dealt with in accordance with the Ministry of Health, with the Health Services Act, which has not been done here in this parliamentary proposal. So I have a negative attitude towards him here. And, of course, given that I'm preparing a comprehensive amendment to the Funeral Law, I would like to see the Chamber of Deputies and the Government of the Czech Republic decide on an overall comprehensive amendment rather than just a partial proposal which is not yet legally in order. The main objectives of the amendment are not only, as you mentioned in the introduction - we have the theme of the coffin there, but the main aim of the amendment is for someone in the Czech Republic to supervise and supervise this activity at the level of self-government and at the level of the state. The supervisory body will be MMR and otherwise I will involve the regions of the Czech Republic and, of course, self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u93	Thank you, Minister. Its answer was so clear that the Member does not have an additional question. The third interview will be given by Mr Jan Sedláček, who will interpel the present Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán on the concept of imprisonment. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u94	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen. Minister, I am aware that in February this year the government approved the concept of prison until 2025. I would therefore like to ask you how you implement this concept. There is often talk of difficulties in employing prisoners. What efforts are the ministry and the prison service making in this field? How do you intend to carry out the tasks of the government imposed by the initiative of the Human Rights Council on the issue of prisons, Resolution No. 80 out of 3. 2. 2016 and to process a detailed analysis of the possibilities of carrying out possible valorisation of the work rewards of convicted persons? Will this money be affected and will it not adversely affect the employment of convicted persons? What other specific activities are you developing to improve Czech prisons and have already started concrete cooperation with other ministries or other authorities? In the concept you state, you want to introduce agricultural activity in the prison. What have you done in the four months of the concept in that direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u95	The opposition is not often applauded by a coalition MP. It just happened. Please, Minister, for general cheer, for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u96	Mr President, honourable Members, perhaps I will be at least half successful as a Member of the opposition. Thank you for the questions. It is a question that we also discussed at the exit meeting with the Security Committee Members. Directly in the concept of imprisonment is stated because it is a long-term concept for ten years, so it says that it needs to be further developed into so-called action plans, which will always be for the year and with the next annual outlook, and they will then be monitored regularly. So the 2016 Action Plan with a view to 2017 has already been developed and started to be implemented. It has a whole range of elements. The centre of gravity, as far as the implementation phase is concerned, is placed in the area of increasing the employment of prisoners. Further preparation of the open prison project, preparation of a new model hostel corresponding to the concept and search for solutions in particular to health care issues in prisons. It's much longer than that. I'm not gonna tire of it here. As far as employment is concerned, which we have actually identified in view of the current economic favourable situation as our primary or first objective, we have only managed to increase employment from 6 022 prisoners in December 2015 to 6 670 prisoners in the current part of this year. That's some reading from last week, as far as I know, or the week before last. That means 10 percent. Overall, we have set up a 20 per cent increase plan for this year, so, as you can see, we are still fulfilling this very ambitious plan. We have taken a number of measures to do so. We communicate intensively with employers. We've created some kind of prison card where employers or potential employers can acquaint themselves with a job offer from individual prisons. That means how many employable prisoners there are, what kind of work, to what extent. We have an employment coordinator who, in the event that a particular prison is unable to meet the demand itself, takes over the demand and, if necessary, transfers it to another prison or in some way takes some central measures, etc., etc. We also try intensively to find premises for building other production halls either directly in prisons or in close proximity to prisons, and they ideally then build them with the financial contribution of those employers. As far as the question of valorising the rewards of the condemned is concerned, we really do have this task to analyse this question. For this reason, we have also established an appropriate inter-ministerial group for this. However, I must say that our plan is first to increase employment dramatically in the current rewards, and only then to consider increasing these rewards. We find it illogical if we have not yet succeeded in employing the prisoners for the rewards that are set today, so increase them, and thus actually make the task difficult. At the same time, for comparison, when I asked in Germany or Saxony, in Dresden, about the rewards that their prisoners receive, I found that they are basically the same as ours. So the increase, if there's room for him, we'd be happy to approach him, but at this point, it's not a priority. When it comes to the issue of other activities and cooperation with other institutions, we really do have a lot to deal with. We're kind of trying to break through the isolation. So, for example, we've now recently made a committee for a system solution to prison health. Of course, with the Ministry of Health, with the Ministry of the Interior, with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, defence, prison services, etc., etc. I'm running out of time, so I'm just gonna say... [[The President: It is not passing, it has passed, Minister. I'm so sorry.]] It's gone, so I'm gonna brag about the last sentence. We're bringing the colony to the prisons. We have a big day tomorrow at Jiřice Prison, opening the first hives. I'm afraid I won't be there because I'm here to discuss our designs with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u97	The moment of truth in the House of Commons always triggers the element of surprise when the Minister pleads to boast. The Member does not have an additional question, and we will proceed to another interpellation. Mr Ludvík Hovorka will intersect Minister Svatopluk Němeček on the request of Young Doctors for changes in education. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u98	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, last week a meeting took place on the floor of the Health Committee with representatives of the medical faculties and the Rector of Charles University as well as representatives of the Young Doctors. I was very interested in the subjects that were given to us. These are 10 topics to address the personnel crisis and the declining quality of medical education. In particular, young doctors point out that the education of doctors must become a clear priority in hospitals and must not be subject only to operational requirements. That means patching holes of missing test doctors. Secondly, the financing of specialisation training must be provided from the state budget and cannot lie only on the shoulders of hospitals or doctors themselves in preparation. Thirdly, compulsory internships must be significantly more effective. It must lead to as much practical experience as possible in the shortest possible time. Fourthly, accredited facilities should give doctors a clear schedule of specialisation training at the start of the test and must be carried out on an ongoing basis, not just before the test. Doctors should have a self-study area protected before each test. Fifthly, the required performances must be selected very carefully and in feasible numbers. As our colleague Svoboda pointed out, for example, the requirements for surgical procedures were often in such numbers that if students were to carry them out, so much performance will not be done in the Czech Republic in a year. Sixth - emphasis must be placed mainly on practical training of skills and experience with specific performances in which doctors train conscientious and clearly identified trainers. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Seventhly, safe care for patients must always be a priority and the competence of physicians in preparation must be clearly defined with regard to their progress in the education process. Thank you for your attention and your response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u99	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to assure you that I am familiar with the requirements of the Young Doctors' Association and am aware of their importance. I have met with representatives of the association on the improvement of specialization training of doctors repeatedly and I am concerned with their demands. The Ministry of Health has prepared an amendment to the Act on the Education of Physicians, Act No. 95/2004 Coll., which is currently ordered to discuss the Health Committee of the Chamber of Deputies after first reading. We are still discussing the final form of this amendment and proposals for its improvement with representatives of the professional public including the Czech Medical Chamber, medical faculties and professional companies. Certainly also the suggestions of the Young Doctors will be valuable feedback and will be applied in this discussion. I would also like to assure you that we agree with the representatives of the Young Doctors that the quality of medical education must be one of the priorities in health care establishments. The Ministry co-finances the education of doctors through the grant programme of residence sites and within this programme I will strive for the maximum possible increase in funding for this programme, designed to ensure that specialization education for doctors is as accessible as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u101	Thank you, Minister. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u102	Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. I think the money for residential education is quite sufficient at the moment. The problem is that the conditions are set so that they are used from less than one third. Only less than 150 miles. The koruna per year has been used from 500 mil over many years. CZK, which are earmarked for the residential education of doctors. So there are huge reserves in the fact that this money is essentially being forfeited, they are not being used for the benefit of education. Young doctors draw attention to the requirement of practical training and the role of trainer, staff-sufficient workplaces, practical skills training, experience with specific performances, the quality of trainers and their evaluation. I would also like to say that I did not understand why in the past it had withdrawn from a fairly proven education system through IPVZ, through the Institute of Postgraduate Doctors Education, which had a great tradition. Basically, there was a single guarantee of education in the Czech Republic. Today the system is considerably fragmented and, in my opinion, it has become a business to some extent. It also basically happened that when former state hospitals were transferred to the county, it was that doctors today have to pay quite a lot of money for internships, they often have to commit to long stabilisation agreements, then work at the hospital for a number of years, and basically all these are problems and obstacles that contribute to the lack of doctors in the Czech Republic. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Here I think that the amendment should go in this direction in particular, so that these problems can be eliminated and responded to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u103	Please, Minister, your follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me make two comments. The first is to use funds for residential places. Here I have to correct the Member's claim a little, because last year and especially this year, there is a much more significant drawdown of these funds, which has not been optimal in the past. I agree with that. As for what has gone wrong in the past, I could, of course, also sign under it, but I will not answer that, why our predecessors did so many years ago. The fact that we are not satisfied with this clearly demonstrates that we are presenting a fundamental reform of this system, the amendment to Act No. 95, and I believe that both in the Committee on Health and here in the House, all the things that have been mentioned here, we will work in this proposal to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u105	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Nina Nováková, who will interpelise the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, Kateřina Valachová, on the subject of elementary school registration, will give the fifth interview. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. By your means, Madam Secretary, I would like to draw attention to a phenomenon that may look marginal, because it is definitely quantitatively small. And that is, if we save a child that - and our medicine can do it - we save a child who is essentially doomed to never walk again, to sit, etc., even - I speak specifically now, or I am inspired by the story of a boy who is six years old today is dependent on ventilation, has artificial food intake, etc., etc. Of course, it is a great burden for the family, and every year when the child survives, they are happy. But then suddenly the moment comes and they have to go to the record. And the mother of this six-year-old boy - who would really, it would have to happen a miracle, then she would have gladly gone - had to, because she lives in a ring around Prague, to stand the long line at school for writing. She was told - certainly, in that school the regulations are perfectly applied - that she would have to revisit herself for writing. I know, Madam Secretary, that it is right that with each child, even if he is very severely disabled, we are trying to work, and I know children who actually go to compulsory school with a fourth degree of disability, import them to school, and it is a relief for the family. But this is not the case, and I believe that this is not the case, and even if it is, it is very traumatic for the family. Therefore, I ask very much for some kind of sensitivity to these cases and for the possibility that family members, legal representatives, should not have to appear for registration, because this is a very traumatic matter for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u107	Thank you. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u108	Mr President, honourable Members, thank you very much for this initiative through Mrs Nováková, because the educational needs of children and the rights of children with disabilities really need to be addressed and, of course, also taking into account the situations which are very difficult and which must be dealt with by their parents, with due care, and I would also say with a human approach. I would say at this point that it is true that such an obligation exists. It is also true, honourable Members, that the procedure of the regional authorities is very different in terms of access to these children and, where appropriate, the communication to which schools lead from the point of view of their parents. I would like to report here that we are preparing a proposal for rules on the implementation of education in order to unite methodological, organisational and other support, and thus, of course, taking into account the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Mr President, I will refer this draft of the rules to the Member by you. However, I would also like to point out in the direction of this particular case that there are options for the parent not to have to go through the repeated entries in this case. According to the provisions of the Education Act No. 42 may be "not participating" in collective education, but a decision by the Regional Authority is needed to do so, and then, in these exceptional cases, it is possible for these children to remain in the home environment and thus to be an alternative. So here I conclude that there is a possibility, the procedure is not uniform. We'll make the rules. As for the detailed description, I will refer it to the Member in writing so that she can communicate directly with her parents in detail in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u109	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for the words. The honourable Member has an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u110	Thank you so much for this, through you, Madam Secretary. She rightly said that the regions play a very big role there. I just want to add that these families are, of course, much more often in contact with medical devices, and we can't expect any more information from them in school legislation, so it would actually be good to find some way to find out about it. Then I'd like to ask if the secretary thinks - because it's not a legislative process, but it's gonna be some regulation or something that can be processed faster - if he thinks this little boy might not have to go to the record next year. If he can make that promise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, of course I am prepared to make this promise on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. I'd just like to say briefly here that we'd like to have the rules ready for the beginning of the school year. I am willing and ready to submit them to the school committee for information. As far as the information concerned is concerned, I just want to say that I am Vice-President of the Committee on Disabilities at the Office of the Government, so I will also inform this committee about this situation, including the proposal for solutions, and I will also inform all non-governmental organisations, because I regularly meet them, which deal with the protection of the rights of children with disabilities, and parent associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We'll continue with the ongoing interpellations. Mr Vít Kaňkovský will give another interview.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u113	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, Dear Members of the Government, Dear Colleagues, Dear Colleagues, Highlands with a question concerning the grant title of the MMR programme for housing development, namely the sub-programme Regeneration of housing estates. The sub-programme aims to provide subsidies to municipalities for the regeneration of the public area of the housing estate. On 5 April, the Minister adopted the lists of approved, replaced and rejected applications by Decision No 45/2016. And now for the question our mayors are interested in. Four applications were submitted to the said sub-programme from the Regional Region of Vysočina, with neither being approved, namely one being rejected and three appearing in the list of replacement applications, i.e. without a real possibility of reaching the subsidy. Region Vysočina became one of the two regions together with the Pilsen Region, whose residences were not approved by any of the submitted applications. I have become familiar with the terms of the grant title and the evaluation criteria. I am aware that the programme does not include a condition of regional proportionality. Yet I understand a certain disorganization of the municipalities of our unsatisfied cities. Therefore, without any political subtext, I would like to convey to the Minister the question of our mayors. How were the requests of the cities of the Highlands worse than those that succeeded? I am not referring to one application that has been eliminated probably for material and formal shortcomings. Madam Secretary, I beg you politely today at least for a brief information and possible supplement subsequent. Thank you for your attention and the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u114	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and I'll ask the Minister to answer your question. I'll read one more apology. Between the 12th and the end of the day, Mr Radim Fiala apologizes for the hearing. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u115	Mr President, honourable Member, I thank you for this question. The Member himself mentioned that he is aware that there is no regional, virtually. regional proportionality, and it will not. The subsidies are non-interested. Neither Europeans nor nationals put on regional envelopes around the regions of the Czech Republic, it is a decision under the Regionals Act that we have regions, we have a law on municipalities here. It is not expected that the state will give subsidies evenly to a region. I'm sure you didn't. I am very pleased that the interest from the mayors is, and I hope that it will remain, because the Union of Towns and Municipalities and Mayors, which I meet continuously during last year and this year, know that I analyse this subsidy sense, whether it still has meaning or not, because the regeneration of the panel housing estates has been at the Ministry of Regional Development for several years and we do not have enough of those panel housing estates to give these subsidies all the time, and I think that for example. local communication of municipalities up to 3,000 inhabitants needs subsidies to a much greater extent than the regeneration of panel housing sites. However, given how the statistics on grant titles that came in 2016 with this title, and now please, if I can get money from the Ministry of Finance, the MMR will continue next year. As far as a specific case is concerned, I will, of course, not communicate here how many points the request has been received, I am not authorized to do so, given that I am the one signing the decision of the Minister for Regional Development, however, here, even as in the interpellation itself, Mr President, you state, the request has been rejected, the application we are talking about has been rejected because of a failure to fulfil the conditions of the sub-programme, which provides that the municipality will submit a project for regeneration of the housing estate prepared under the conditions laid down in the principles for the processing of the project. According to the assessment of the Institute of Territorial Development in Brno in the submitted regeneration project, there is no division into stages, in the textual, drawing and economic part. Only adjustments to the stage in question were set aside in the project. The time and financial timetable for the implementation of the project was also missing in the entire grant application. For this reason, it was not possible to evaluate the project and was eliminated. This is, in short, what I can say. However, about still regional, virtually. In the case of the Region of Vysočina, a total of five projects were submitted and four of them were included among the already mentioned various replacement actions, as you yourself rightly said, Mr Member through Mr President, and these are the projects of the city of Třebíč, Polná, Světlá nad Sázavou and Ledeč nad Sázavou. All cities gained a certain number of points and was not sufficient. They were a footnote, and they're still a footnote. Thank you. I confirm that we will continue with the grant title because demand exceeds supply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u116	Thank you. It seems that the Member will have an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u117	I thank the Minister for her answer. Just to make no mistake, I was especially approached by Havlíčkobrodským municipalities, i.e. Light above Sázavou and Ledčí. Of course, they're sorry that they're left behind, maybe they'd be interested in the future, which criteria, even though I know it's stated in the propositions, which are more emphasised, and then maybe it'll be more of a consultation at your ministry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u118	Thank you. Madam Secretary will complete the answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u119	Mr President, honourable Member, consultations are certainly possible on each grant title and on the part of the Ministry of Regional Development. And here I'd just like to call on the mayors not to drop in mind, because if they're below the line, that means we didn't take them out, that is. that projects are good, but unfortunately they were better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u120	Thank you, too. Mrs Anna Putnová will now perform with her intervention. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u121	Good afternoon, Mr President. I know that Minister Ťok is excused, which is why I am withdrawing my intervention in the hope that he will get an interview on Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek about the failure of the public information system to record the results of science, experimental development and innovation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u122	Thank you. Next in line is Mr Radim Holeček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u123	Dear Minister, at the beginning of my interview, I would like to thank you for taking a break in contempt of the House and finally attending the interview. Thank you. So the Treasury launched an EET ad campaign for us. I don't know who you turned on that cartoon. I've seen him before. I was most intrigued by the Balkan version of Andrej Babiš with a mustache, as if the Internet service had turned on that horrible businessman who was robbing the state. I have noted the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce that the EET should be postponed by the government, that EET cannot be technically prepared, that it is nonsense to launch EET in the season before Christmas, that it is problematic for many restaurants. But at the same time, such advertising is being launched. And I'm asking how much it cost because it's estimated that this campaign went about 28 miles. Crowns. I'd like to confirm this if that's what the amount is. I'm sure the ad isn't just going to YouTube where I saw it, but it's gonna be in the press, on TV, on the radio, it's gonna be online. Well, what about your MAFRA, what about your Impuls? You're gonna send money from the state register straight to private? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u124	I also thank you and ask the Minister to answer your questions. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u125	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this kind of silly interpellation is why I don't come here much. I've done my interpelling statistics, I can read it to you later. That's why I sometimes say it's fake. The campaign, Mr. Colleague, was worth a creative suggestion. We've been picking out seven offers. The winning offer was $2,950,000 without VAT. Purchase of media space - PHD won the open tender. The assessment criterion was the lowest bid price and the winning bid was 26 384 982,58. The price agreed in the contract is CZK 25 226 804. And that's for a project that's supposed to bring 18 billion a year. [[16.40 hours]] So I would recommend to the honourable Member that he compare it with, for example, the wine fund or the class campaign and judge it, because this is an advertisement that will bring 18 billion in the budget. The purchased space is: radio and television 68 %, printing 18,8% and internet 13,2 %. And the campaign only started now, so far we've been campaigning on our own. I even invested in it myself, in a brochure, I had it printed out, to actually disprove the lies and demagogy that the opposition was spreading here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u126	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Holeček if he wants to ask an additional question. That's right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u127	She's not just a follow-up question anymore. It said here: stupid, stupid, faggots, lies, that's why I don't come here. I will note whether it is dignified for the Minister of Government of the Czech Republic to insult a Member who does his job and interpels and checks whether he does, does not. I think the Minister should really come here, because if people see this, then that's exactly the result of the fact that he's got it all over the country, because these people aren't stupid, they can't be fooled by doughnuts for that long. It's pouring down their throats. Well, in Ústí, for example, when they had a coalition there with the local association and started with the tricolor, how it will start perfectly, so yes, it is no longer there at all and gradually you can see: today Liberec. You're spilling, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u128	Thank you. The Minister will complete his answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u129	Thank you for the floor. Well, I don't know what the interpellation's all about, you're all wasted or whatever. I didn't get it. So somebody's falling apart, somebody's spilling. Well, let's see how we fix this. The psychics, I've been keeping an eye on them. Number: stork nest ten times, state budget seven times. What's interesting is that when it's an interpellation that I meet a Member on Tuesday and deal with land in Harrachov, and he's intersecting me on Thursday. And conflict of interest and so on. So I'm glad I can be here and answer. However, it is important to me how many laws I have passed here. I made 275 laws 68, so it's almost a third. So I just want to say that, of course, there are interpelations that are serious and do not attack me and are not personal, as the MP has just shown. I didn't really understand what the interpellation was. That the movement is falling apart? That's not your problem, Mr. Ambassador, that's my problem, and I'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u130	Thank you. We will proceed to another interview, and this is Mrs Olga Havlová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My interpellation is for Minister Mládek. Minister, I have a few questions for you about so-called selective extraction. Why does the mining company OKD carry out selective mining of black coal with silent consent and under the state supervision of the Czech Mining Authority and the Mining Authority Ostrava? The poor management of the mining company and the declines in the price of coal on the market cannot be a reason for non-compliance with the Mining Act. Mining focuses on coking coal, which has a significantly higher market price. Elements with a lesser power are left out, therefore they are not actually burdened. This method of extraction cannot be considered to be an economical use of an exclusive bearing. Secondly, I ask why mining companies will not provide suitable equipment to ensure greater complexity of the components. The mining company provides for the extraction of such a technique, which focuses on safety and mainly on achieving the greatest possible performance and thus its own profits. Achieving the maximum complexity of the components and achieving the maximum output in mining are two opposites. And thirdly, why does the state seem to be in violation of Article 7 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, which reads: The State takes care of the gentle use of natural resources and the protection of natural wealth? Who is responsible for the bad activities of the state mining administration, that is to say the Czech Mining Authority and the Ostrava Mining Authority, which is to supervise the mining activities, and what remedy are you planning? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u132	I also thank you, Madame, and I will ask the Minister to answer you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u133	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank the honourable Member for the interview and allow me to say a few words about this. If OKD is carrying out selection mining, I'd need an accurate determination of the locations where it might occur. But frankly, I can't rule it out. The reason for this is the situation of an undertaking which is generally known. The place got into insolvency. At this point, a temporary creditor committee is set up where three creditors' representatives are present. Behind the company there are approximately 17 billion claims on the property of 7 billion crowns. That's the situation. Of course, all these numbers are subject to confirmation by the insolvency administrator, which will examine whether they are correct. And sometimes in August, Mr. Lee Louda will say what the final number is. These numbers are preliminary. In this light, it is then necessary to look at the things that the honourable Member has mentioned. Of course, at this point, it doesn't pay to extract coal. And what still has some profitability is coal coking. As far as appropriate technology is concerned, it should be made clear here that OKD will not provide any more suitable technology, it does not have the money for it. She basically doesn't have the money for -- she's gonna have a problem getting money for payouts and basic needs, let alone buying a new technique. But frankly, I don't see any problem at all in the other one. If it focuses on the safety and achievement of the highest possible performances, that is correct, because the priority of the Czech Mining Authority is to ensure that there are no accidents, God forbid fatal accidents, which is a very high priority in these mines, because OKD mines are relatively risky mines with many risks given by geological conditions. The fact that there's some coal and its yield, and if it's a raw material, it's also due to the price of the conquest. Because, at a time when coal prices are very low on the world market, there is an effort in Western Europe to decarbonize energy, Germany has an ambition not to use coal, no carbon even until 2050, and the COP 21 in Paris essentially committed the whole world to achieve the same thing in 2100, I don't know how fast those trends will go. Perhaps it won't be 2050 or 2100, but what we can observe is the decline in demand for coal and, at the same time, competition supplies it at incredibly low prices. In Kazakhstan, a ton of coal is mined for five dollars, and even if it gets to the sea at Klaipeda's on the Baltic Sea, it costs something, but it's still farther than how it's mined in OKD. And unfortunately, there's no way it's any different anytime soon. [[16.50 hours]] At this point, I do not see any correction or legislative changes being planned against the Czech Mining Authority, which is a separate office, the MIT only fulfills the so-called coordinating role towards it. The Upper Law has been amended quite recently. The Mining Act is in the process of this honored assembly, so I see no reason for any activity in this regard. The main thing we are dealing with right now is that the situation in Ostrava, or, more precisely, in Karvinsko, evolves in some acceptable way so that the insolvency takes place not in a winding-up way, but in the continuation of mining. It will at least mean that Paskov mine will be closed, which has been mentioned for three years, and of course we will be looking for a solution for the remaining shafts, with the fact that for me personally there is not even a problem option that he would take the shafts into the scent or into the ownership of the state enterprise Diamo. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u134	Is that an answer, madam? Okay. Thank you. Before we go any further, I'll read an apology. Today, from 16.30 to the end of the day, for reasons of work, Mrs Helena Válková apologises. We will proceed to another interview and this is Mr Stanislav Mackovík. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u135	Hello. Mr President, members of the government, colleagues, I would like to address the Minister of Education with a few questions regarding the exchange of the Director of the Education Institute in Chrastava, I say here a short version of this facility. And I am particularly interested in whether the Ministry of Education has taken into account the fact that this is the second ethpedic device for boys in the Czech Republic, where they are placed, one of the worst villains. Then I wonder, how did you come to this inspection by the Ministry of Education that the Czech School Inspectorate carried out the inspection carelessly in December 2015 and, therefore, whether you will be able to check further facilities where the Czech School Inspectorate carried out the checks and therefore in quotation marks there is a risk that they were also sloppy? Is it true that you responded to the instigation of the Ombudsman on the basis of a telephone conversation? And, of course, I am still interested in whether, in connection with Act No. 109/2002 Coll., § 39, where it is stated that supervision of the state prosecutor's office is also an obligation, and therefore I ask how the wording of this law has been implemented and whether or not there have been problems with the evaluation of the wards. And I also want to ask whether the security measures will change in any way, that is, the camera system, the bars and even the mode in this device, and whether you continue to guarantee the safety criterion that has been introduced there to date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u136	I thank you, too, and I will ask the Minister to answer your question. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u137	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to respond to the intervention that has been made. So, first of all, I would like to correct some of the issues that seem inaccurate or probably related to the lack of information available to me at this point in time by you. First of all, I would like to say that the procedure of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, which led to the resignation - and now attention - of the director of the educational institution, of the children's home with the school, secondary school, primary school and school cafeteria in Chrastav, was based on the conclusions of the Czech School Inspectorate of 16 May 2016, which found significant shortcomings in finding the justification for the subsequent adoption of the measures in the following points. On the one hand, she condemned the existing scoring system, further condemned the fact that children cannot comment on the measures in education, and that their imposition is decided by the tutor without the approval of the manager. Thirdly, stays of persons responsible for education are linked to scores of scores. Fourthly, children are required to pay for the damage caused and to pay for their laundry costs. Fifthly, due to their individual needs, children are not provided with professional psychological and ethopedic care. To put it simply, there were no professions involved. While they are to be represented, they have not been represented. Here I would just like to say, given the inspection mentioned by the Member in his interview, that the management of the Czech School Inspectorate has reasonable doubts about the implementation of the inspection investigation in December 2015 with regard to the conclusions of 16 May 2016, and that is why the Central School Inspector Tomáš Zatloukal gave the order to carry out a consistent analysis of the inspection activities carried out in the facility in December and at the same time to initiate a disciplinary procedure with specific staff of the Czech School Inspectorate. The Supreme Prosecutor has acted in a similar manner when asked about the procedure of the State Attorney in carrying out his legal activity over the facility. I still consider it important to say that, of course, we have been informed by the public defender of rights, in accordance with the law and legal procedure, first of all, taking into account the seriousness of the finding, therefore, immediately that an error has been found and subsequently through the transmission of a written report from the visit to the establishment issued on 13 May 2016. As far as the findings are concerned, I just want to say that it is not at all that the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports in any way question the consistency of education and care in relation to children who have been through it, and I am now pointing out not all of them in the facility, but maybe they also have a possible criminal activity. Here, just in terms of the ratio of ordered constitutional and protective education, I want to say that at the time of the Ministry of Education's step there were three boys in protective education, then for some time there was only one, now there are two. This means that, to a greater extent, they are children with ordered constitutional education, which we know is something else. I would also like to say that this is not a lack of consistency or rashness on the part of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, because the steps which were subsequently taken on my part have been supported in particular by the fact that they have expressed themselves in a similar way to the Czech School Inspection and Authorities in the framework of constitutional and protective education and personalities leading similar facilities within our system in terms of subordinate organizations. I'd mention Dr. Cpinová or Mr. Stříbrný Bachelor. And I would also like to say from the point of view of the expertise and consistency of what is happening at this point in time, so besides being in charge of management for many years... [[Attention on time.]] Yes, I'm sorry - long-time... Mrs. Cpinová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u138	I'm sorry, Madam Secretary, but your time for an answer is up. If the Member asks an additional question, you will be given room. Aren't you asking another follow-up question, Mr. Ambassador? No. In that case, Madam Secretary will discuss the rest of the interpellation with you. Please, let us approach the next interview and this is Mrs Jitka Chalánková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent Minister, on the basis of respect for the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies number 545 of 9. 12. 2014 The President of the Republic sent to the Chamber of Deputies a proposal for an international agreement with Norway on cooperation in child protection proceedings. With this step, Members may become familiar with the draft agreement before it is submitted to Norway and to Norway. It's a procedure from the Constitution possible. According to my information, the President of the Chamber of Deputies sent a draft of this treaty to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I therefore ask the Government and you, Madam Secretary: Will the Government submit this proposal to the Norwegian Party? What will your ministry do in this particular matter? If the government does not intend to deal with the President's proposal at all, can it be disclosed without further publication? [[17,00 hours]] Since you are not here, I would expect you to talk about Norway's ratification of the Hague Convention on mutual recognition of these decisions. I would like to say that this presidential treaty is somewhat different. It is, of course, based on generally applicable international human rights conventions, on the other hand, more developed than the Hague Convention. Moreover, in the case of Eva Michaláková, the Hague Convention will no longer have any effect on the resolution of this case, whereas this presidential proposal for a treaty brings that possibility. I would like to point out that the Czech Government has not yet received the questions raised to the Norwegian Government in a year and a half on the basis of our Chamber of Deputies approved by the resolution. Still, she was content with this condition. Finally, I would like to respond to the fact that the Czech Parliament has also been visited by the President of the Norwegian Parliament. I haven't had the pleasure of dealing with him personally. Mr. Olemic Thommessen, however, said Law and gave Právo an interview -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u140	I'm sorry, madam, but the time you had for the interpellation has expired. As the Minister is not present, you will be answered in writing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u141	Okay. Thank you for your reply in writing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u142	Thank you, too. The next interview was to be from Mrs Radka Maxová, which is canceled, okay. I shall now ask Mr Adolf Beznoska. I don't see the MP. In that case, we will continue with the next order, and this is Mr Martin Novotný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u143	Mr President, Minister, my question will be very factual and non-aggressive. The topic of the budgetary determination of taxes is a serious subject for this House, what this House exists. In recent years, we have seen a number of changes in this area, such as a fairly logical increase in the share of smaller municipalities, which often faced the fact that their revenues were not enough to make large infrastructure investments and so on. Nevertheless, I believe that the abolition of some parts of the system, such as some bands according to size, by replacing other parameters, the complications of the system have led recently to a large reduction in the differences between regional metropolises, cities that mediate a number of public services for their entire regions, whether in the fields of culture, sport, mass transport and, in general, the metropolitan infrastructure, and those of medium and smaller cities. Today, the difference between the per capita amounts of regional cities and cities, let's say, in the tens of thousands of inhabitants, has drawn so close and it is so small that we often hear from regional cities in a lax way that they get into a situation where they are able to play the role of metropolis more and more complicated. I know that discussions are starting on this subject at the level of the relevant committees and subcommittees of the House, as well as at the level of the government, so I want you, Minister - you have so far been limited in the area of the RUD, in particular to the wording that you collect more taxes, and therefore cities and municipalities, regardless of size, receive more money. So I want to ask you if you have and are planning any measure in this area in the near future, what is your opinion on this, with what possible concept you are looking at the future of the RUD system. And I'm asking you with an emphasis on the regional metropolis issue. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u144	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u145	Thanks for the word. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have certainly discussed the budgetary determination of taxes more than once. At the Ministry, I set up a committee dealing with the budgetary determination of taxes, and I also actively participate in it. I think that's where we're dealing specifically with the issue. Of course, we have dealt with the changes that will take place from 1 January 2017, when, in fact, the municipality cancels the 30% share of the income tax of the natural persons from the business, the return, and there is an increase in the share of the municipalities from VAT to 20,83 % to 21,4. Of course, the government came up with various suggestions about the RUD - from the Pardubice Region and I think from the Liberec Region. My last thought in terms of budgetary tax determination was that I think there is an anomaly where there is actually a gambling levy for the municipalities, and I actually wanted to replace it, or I would like to put it as part of the coalition, but also as part of the discussion of our commission, that, in fact, all the income from gambling would go to sport according to some rules. The idea was 2018 - 80 per cent, 2019 - 90 per cent and 2020 - 100 per cent. This would be replaced by an increase in the budgetary determination of taxes. So I'm going to discuss this proposal with the coalition and see what the reaction will be. And, of course, I had a preliminary feeling within our commission that it was quite helpful from the point of view of the opposition. This year we have an increase in the budgetary determination of taxes for the regions. This has an impact on VAT revenues of 3.7 billion. So much for me at this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u146	Thank you. I wonder if the Member still wants to ask. [[Yes.]] Please, follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u147	My question focused, say, not on the system as a whole and on the degree of participation of cities and municipalities in those taxes and possibly on the role of gambling, but rather on the internal proportionality of the system. We all suspect that such a regional or large city has to deal with urban public transport areas, some such cities have only buses, some only trolleybuses, some have many more such transport options, they have a lot of cultural institutions and so on. I was just pointing out that we are getting closer and closer to the situation that smaller cities, which may not have to provide such public services to citizens from all over the region, have increasingly the same money per head as those cities that do. And sooner or later, there's got to be a problem with this thing. So my question was whether or not you were considering the absolute amount of the system, but also its internal proportionality in terms of the size of municipalities and activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u148	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u149	We're not thinking right now, so if you have a specific proposal, I'm inviting you to the committee where we're dealing with it. And, of course, we will be happy to discuss your proposal on how to change that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u150	Thank you. Mrs Věra Kovářová will now speak with her intervention. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u151	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, allow me to greet you after a long period of time at the Chamber of Deputies to discuss oral interventions, and I believe that you will be so interested in the subject of my interpelation today that you will come to us next time and that you will finally start fulfilling the constitutional responsibilities of a member of the government. And now for my interpellation. I was pleased to welcome the information that progress has been made in preparing the draft law on public custody, for which the public has been waiting for a very long time. By the way, the differences between finance ministries and justice have unfortunately contributed to the long wait. That's probably in the past, as I understood from Minister Pelikán's reply to my interpellation. Unfortunately, this answer does not show how high the flat-rate amount of agreement should be, which I consider to be a very fundamental figure. Would you, Minister, say clearly and openly what the lump sum per guardian is expected to be? Thank you. [[17.10 hours]] And let me ask you one more question. A number of municipalities and cities have so far carried out this activity on their own account. In fact, they represented a state that did not contribute in any tangible way to their performance. Especially in the case of smaller municipalities and cities on whose territory social institutions are located, this would mean considerable expenditure and would mean. Not to mention organizational and other loads. Wouldn't it be reasonable and fair to give these authorities some compensation under the new law? Thank you for your opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u152	I thank you, Madame, and ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with effect from 1 January 2014, the guardian's duties have been enshrined as delegated powers, and the municipalities under Section 62 of the Municipalities Act receive a contribution from the State budget for carrying out delegated tasks, but I consider that insufficient. The contribution to the performance of the state administration is somewhat missed with the needs of the municipalities concerned. The contribution depends primarily on the number of permanent residents of the catchment area, does not take account of the number of posts or the number of guardians. Although the contribution is not the only source of the delegated remuneration, it can be noted that the public custody agenda is mainly burdened by smaller municipalities with multiple guardians. The problem also lies in the absence of gestures over public custody. There we have MPSV - social aspect, Ministry of Justice - relation to the court, Ministry of the Interior - affected entities are municipalities, municipalities long-term demanding solutions to the situation. I've been intersected more than once, and it's basically at a time when the size of the state budget funds hasn't exactly been agreed. Today I can say this: The Ministry of Finance has been counting on additional financial resources for municipalities and the capital city of Prague to strengthen the resources of the public custody agenda since 2017. The funds will be included in the contribution to the performance of the state administration for municipalities. The amount of CZK 29,000 per guardian is calculated on this basis, but with a maximum of CZK 350 million. The issue is currently addressed in particular by the Ministry of Interior, which prepares a methodology for this method, or from the point of view of the financing technique. it will amend Annex No.8 of the Act on the State Budget for next year. According to our information, the Minister of Justice is preparing a draft amendment law amending certain laws in connection with public custody. In addition, the Ministry of Finance estimates for the years 2017 to 2019 a 5% annual valuation of the total amount of public administration contributions for territorial budgets, e.g. in 2017 means an absolute expression of the amount of approximately half a billion crowns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u154	Thank you. I ask the honourable Member whether she will ask an additional question. That's right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u155	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I must say that I will contact Mayor Janderka z Olšany, a small village with fifty inmates, and the mayor's funds do not allow him to take any person who would help him in this activity, and it is basically preventing him from performing his duties. I'm glad you didn't label my interpellation as stupid in the case of my colleague Holeček, and I think you can see how important the interpelations are, how important the immediate answer is, and I think we'll be happy to see you here next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u156	Thank you, too. The Minister is about to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u157	Thank you. I think my colleague Kovářová knows that if she communicates normally, I work normally too. And if, of course, interpelations are attacks and insults and humiliation, then, of course, I have no desire to respond to such interpelations. So I'll be happy to meet the mayor and try to help him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u158	Thank you. Mrs Dana Váhalová will now speak with her intervention. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Ministers, dear colleagues, the Council of Europe Convention against Forgery of Medicinal Products and Similar Crimes Threatening Human Health entered into force in 2016. This Convention deals with the protection of public health, the protection of victims, the promotion of cooperation at national and international level, and the important objectives of that Convention are preventive measures. This Convention constitutes, firstly, a binding international instrument in criminal law concerning the counterfeiting of medicinal products and similar offences affecting public health. I therefore ask, Minister, will the Czech Republic also accede to this Convention and when will the preparations for accession begin? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u160	Thank you. I'm sure the Minister will be happy to answer you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u161	Mr President, honourable Members, whether or not the Czech Republic will come forward, I cannot decide, but we as the Gesture Ministry are planning to present this material to the government. I must also say that we are at the very beginning of the preparation, i.e. so far we are working on translating the Convention into the Czech language. At the same time, I must also say that the Convention entered into force only on 1 January of this year, and not even half of the Member States have signed it yet, and only five have ratified it, and we also know that in other Member States the process is only at the beginning. So we're going to participate, so we're preparing a translation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u162	Thank you. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u163	It's just, Minister, if you could at least outline the timetable for the preparations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u164	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u165	Now I'm wondering if I should say something that might not be true, or I'd rather admit that I don't know. Well, I'll admit I don't know. We really have there - I'll tell you so much, you know, we're talking about a lot of international instruments that we're trying to sort out the deficit that's happened here in the past governments, so honestly, I don't expect anything to happen here this year. It's more like something that's going to happen next, because now we want to sort things out, where we're really late, and we all have it, and we don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u166	Thank you, too. I will now request an interview with Mrs Pavla Golasowská. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u167	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, and I present an interview to the absent Minister of Health, Mr Svatopluk Němeček, on financial supervision for hospice employees and medical facilities. We know that our population is getting older and more and more people are using the services of senior facilities and the services of hospices that provide their clients with health and relief care. That this care places great demands on employees, not only on their physical but also psychological disposition, there is certainly no doubt. In addition to financial appreciation, these people also need support in the form of supervision, which can prevent their burnout, which is often the cause of both increased fluctuations, but also often a lack of employees in these facilities. As one of the measures against these undesirable phenomena, I see the support of the Ministry of Health in the form of financial subsidies for supervision for workers of these services. That is why, Minister, I ask you whether you are counting on the financial contribution to the supervision of these employees in your next year's budget and, if so, at what level. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u168	Thank you. As the Minister is not present, you will be answered in writing to your interview. I will now ask Mr Michal Kučera to speak with his intervention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u169	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The Ministry of Regional Development awarded without competition a contract for the selection of the National Electronic Instrument for Public Procurement. I will not comment here on the fact that the selection took place without competition, although the YES movement under the leadership of Andrej Babiš was enchanted by promoting transparent contracts. I would like to point out that the price is from the originally planned 15 miles. climbed up to 50 million according to my information that there were several comments. I suspect there was some criticism from the SAO that there were some comments, and the SAO criticized both the construction and the operation of the electronic tool itself, that there were some findings of the UOHS, which, of course, were swept off the table by the cancelled competition. The contract was awarded directly and without competition. I don't want to comment on who and the ties that are there. I think Minister Šlechtová and her boss Andrej Babiš are aware of this. First of all, I'd like to ask why the tender was canceled. Second, why the price has been increased several times. Why the contract was awarded without competition and whether Minister Šlechtová will measure the same metro as the applicants for subsidies, who will go in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u170	I also thank you and ask Minister Šlechtová to answer your question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u171	Mr President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, the YES movement and Minister Šlechtová are acting under the Public Procurement Act and the Public Procurement Act, an existing law. I am often amazed by the various statements that we learn in the press without really verifying it as it is. So I would like to mention here how the contract was awarded. It has a genesis before the competition was announced. I'm on the jug. And I would also like to comment on that last question. The MMR, including me as the statutory body of this ministry, is taking the same metro to everyone, given that we, as the Gestor of the Public Procurement Act - and certainly not for my leadership - would not be able to do otherwise. Public contract for the modification of a given... And one more thing, actually. You asked, Mr President, about the SAO's conclusions. So I assume that it is possible to read from my statement or media statement, or it is also on the MMR website that I agree with this statement of the SAO, because these are the findings that are really there, and I will not defend something here, which I personally agree with and the Ministry also. There's been a mistake, there's a correction to this tool. However, the government has decided to continue with this instrument. About the job itself. It was originally published in an open procedure. It was originally published in an open procedure carried out in an overliminal regime. That's the strictest regime for the contracting authority. This procedure took place in the first quarter of 2016. In the framework of the open procedure, only one offer was accepted from DEZADATA GROUP. It had to be eliminated after its assessment because it did not meet the conditions of the competition, the timetable for the performance did not meet the requirements of us as contracting entities. The Ministry of Regional Development pursuant to the Public Procurement Act subsequently took advantage of the possibility of this Act, which is referred to in § 22 para. 2 and followed up the open procedure by means of a negotiated procedure with publication, i.e. that we called on the only bidder to correct the offer and negotiated the price reduction by 10 per cent in the course of the negotiations. The resulting contract price is 49,6 million. CZK with VAT. This is an adaptation of the National Electronic Instrument to the new Public Procurement Act. It'll cost a total of 15.3 miles. CZK with VAT, just as we expected. The residual price, which is the other 35 miles. CZK, will be paid from the system supervision service by the end of 2018 and also for possible further adjustments, not only according to user requirements, i.e. MMR doesn't have to spend that money anymore. The amendment of NEN as such under the new Public Procurement Act was awarded in a tendering procedure following an open procedure in which, unfortunately, only one tender was submitted. So it is not true that it was entered without a competition. And one more thing. The fact that the company, which is not the author of Nen at the moment and does not operate it, has basically no service from this company, I do not know the company at all, is the reason that there is proof that NEN can be adapted to other companies than the one that is constantly being talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u172	Thank you, too. The Member is going to ask you an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u173	Well, thank you. Thank you for the argument from the secretary. I would agree more or less with that, because such arguments have also been raised here in recent years and in recent parliamentary periods, when individual ministers advocated their contracts, which were awarded without a tender procedure. I want to say that this is not the only order, of course, without this government's tender, that the Ministry of Minister Šlechtová allowed, for example. The Minister of Finance of Andrea Babiš to award a contract out of hand for the company IBM in the matter of electronic record of sales in a relatively high amount, so the trend here, of course, is quite noticeable from the ministers of the ANO movement. My question is whether these exceptions will continue and become the norm, or are they really the exception.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u174	Thank you. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u175	Mr President, honourable Member, I find this to be a bit of a sneaky question. Through Mr President, Mr Member, you know that I am very strict at the Ministry of Regional Development on all contracts. And I'd like to mention that you're not talking about the Minister allowing Minister Babiš to enter something. The point is that my lawyers - not even my letter - were asked by the Ministry of the Interior to comment on the competition for electronic records of sales, where after all the expert reports that existed at the time - and now there are new ones - the lawyers of the MMR did not find a reason not to make this announcement. I would like to mention and also make a bit of reference to the fact that the ANO ministers are progressing without an assignment. I explained here that this contract was awarded in open procedure and subsequently JŘSU, with publication for the candidate according to the law. It's not about exceptions to the law. This was an opportunity for time. Because we all want to have a modified - and not only of course in effect - new law on public procurement. I would also like to mention that the Ministry of Regional Development is the resort which has all JŘBU statistics, how it is commissioned by both the Ministry and the local public administration. And, of course, our government is trying to reduce JŘB and, of course, allocation, i.e. the amount for which it is entered in the JRB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u176	Thank you. I will now ask Mrs Markéta Adamová to interpelise her. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u177	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, during your absence last week, I have intersected you in connection with the non-acceptance of the bill on health protection against the harmful effects of addictive substances. That this government proposal was not voted by members of the ANO movement, you justified in the media that an amendment to the opposition proposal, which made the anti-smoking law smoking, came into the amendment. You then accused coalition partners of being naughty by tobacco companies, despite the fact that some members of the YES, including the chairman of your parliamentary club, also voted in favour of this opposition proposal. That's why I asked you in the interview about the lobbying thing. Of course, I have not yet received the answer, but a certain answer was given to me by an article from this morning. Server News reported that two days after it was not approved so-called. anti-smoking law, added half a million crowns from Velta Plus EU s.r.o. in a transparent account of the ANO movement. On the company's website we can read that Velta Plus EU has been on the Czech market since 1995, as one of the most important wholesale tobacco products. Outside the business, he also deals with the production of his own products, e.g. under the brand Velta Tobacco produces quality cigarette tobacco and smoking accessories. [[17.30 hours]] Dear Minister, this gift, along with its timing, seems at least suspicious. Can you please explain this gift to us? And I ask for a more specific answer than just that you don't know the company. I'm sure you've had enough time to get to know this at least since this morning. As chairman of the movement, you must have an overview of what support companies you are dealing with, and thus prevent possible speculation. But most of all, I'm wondering if you're going to return this gift to prevent further speculation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u178	Thank you, too, Madame. I'll ask the Minister to answer your question. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, of course it's purposeful information. I would just like to say that the YES movement is transparent. We have a transparent account and, unlike some established political parties like TOP 09, we also have supporters. So our income, unlike some parties, does not constitute income from other non-transparent party accounts or plastic items. I looked at those transparent accounts, and for example, your TOP 09 actually only has transfers between accounts. For example, on May 27th, you sent three million crowns from your non-transparable account to your so-called account. a transparent account. But no one can see what kind of donors it is. So it would be interesting that if you're intersecting me here and saying that you have a transparent account that sends your money of unknown origin to your other account, then you're probably making fools of people. So that would be a good thing if you might say something about it. I'm sure we appreciate all the businessmen. And Velta Plus is such a company. Velta Plus commented on this: "In the past and in the present, we have been approached by more political parties. " For example, this company sponsored ODS in 2008. In 2014 and 2015, some Karlovy Vary movement was sponsored. "So we gave some of them a sponsorship gift. We have now decided to sponsor the political movement YES, because it has the best political agenda from our point of view. Our gift has nothing to do with rejecting the anti-smoking law. Giving a gift to the political movement YES at this time is a coincidence. Our company Velta Plus EU wholesaled cigarettes until the end of 2013. We are currently dealing mainly with the sale of other goods and the sale of tobacco products is minimal." According to the firm's manager, the turnover of the company for the sale of tobacco is negligible by 2%. Otherwise, it mainly deals with the sale of tea. So linking this to current events in the House is either evidence of stupidity or intent to damage our movement. Of course, there was some proposal by Mr. Benda, who was completely different from the proposal made by Minister Nemecek. And our government responded and we passed the new law that will be passed here. And I certainly don't belong to the tobacco lobby. The Treasury has been raising tobacco tax rates since I started. And for the time I've been in the ministry, since 2014, we've increased the yield by 10 billion. Crowns. So I fundamentally reject it. Yes, the company sponsored us. It's transparent. It has nothing to do with the tobacco. They have a minimal turnover, and it is, of course, misinformation that aims only to damage us. So unlike you, TOP 09, we have transparency. And we know, and everyone knows who's giving us the money. You transfer money, on May 27th, you transfer three million from your account, you have no transparent account. Then tell people where you got the $3 million from. Who gave it to you? We say so. And we're not ashamed of it. Because the firm's in business, employs people, pays taxes, and there's no problem with that. And I'm sure if the law comes back here again, we will, this time I'll keep an eye on it personally, we'll vote in favour of the Minister Nemecek's proposal and the entire coalition government. And I hope the whole coalition does, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u180	Thank you. The honourable Member seems to ask a supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u181	The Minister is a genius strategist in that he only responds to what suits him. And, of course, he's talking about something completely different than what he's been asked to do. That's his usual tactic. Anyway, I was asking if you thought the gift was okay at the moment. You answered that, didn't you? So obviously you're not going to return it. That's how I see it. So in other words, you're admitting that when there's something in a transparent account, it's already possible to be bullied like that. It's not a problem. It may also be a pattern for others in this way. Otherwise I will mention that TOP 09 had a transparent account established as the first political party in the Czech Republic. It's just so you don't stay here alone with the information. And I would like to ask if, after all, if the company states on its own website that it is mainly engaged in tobacco, if you did not at least try to verify this information, which it then provides to you. If you just believe that the tea is crucial. [[Attention on time.]] Because look at the website. In fact, right at the beginning, something completely different than what you're saying here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u182	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u183	Thank you for the floor. Yes, we've spoken to the company manager, several times. We have a statement here, and that has nothing to do with it. I'm, I repeat, two percent tobacco. And they have it on the website, so they do. Yes, it says here that he dealt with the wholesale sale of cigarettes until 2013. We have a transparent account because everyone knows this firm gave us $500,000. [[Voices from the benches on the right.]] And I ask you again: 27 May TOP 09 sent three million crowns from its non-transparable account to its so-called so-called. transparent. But no one knows who the money's from! Well, that transparent account of yours is ridiculous! Everyone knows we got $500,000 from Velta. And it has nothing to do with the law made by Mr. Němeček. And we will vote in favour of Mr. German law. So you have a non-transparable account, and you should explain it. [[votes from the diaper]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u184	I will ask you, Members, not to shout at each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u185	You should tell me where you got the $3 million from. Who are your sponsors? Everyone here knows, and I don't see why we should return the gift! It's a well-known company, in business, employing people, and sponsoring in the past. [[votes from the diaper]] So it's just lies. It's the same as your colleague here was talking about IBM. IBM has been at the Treasury since 1993. Yes, it has the monopoly status of the ADIS IT system. So ask your boss, I don't know how many years the minister was, seven or nine, why he didn't change that. That's the same demagogic talk you're doing here with this gift. The gift is transparent. We have a transparent account, it has nothing to do with it. It is purposeful disinformation and the public will be able to see how we will vote on Mr Němeček's proposal in the new version. So it's more like you have a problem. We don't have a problem. We're not ashamed of the sponsor. It's transparent. You have non-transparable money!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u186	I will now ask Mr Petr Bendl for his intervention. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, fellow Members, drawing on the European funds for developing new generation networks is not the first time on the wallpaper on interpelations today. I have noticed that some of my colleagues have also intersected the Prime Minister, for the reason that there was relatively serious information in the media on the fact that this drawdown was approximately 14 billion. The crown is in danger. They complain about the main partners, which are the Chamber of Commerce, the Confederation of Industry and Transport, the ICT Union and other IT associations, on the one hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the factual elements of the material which they consider to be non-compliance with the conditions of the European Commission. I only wanted to hear from you, Minister, that you are aware that by 30. 6. you are to discuss material in the government and by 30. 11. submit to the European Commission in the relevant form so that these funds that the Czech market and the Czech economy need are not threatened. And if you're sure everything will go the way it's supposed to. For what we read so far in the media speaks of the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u188	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. And I'll ask the Minister to answer your question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u189	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Member, thank you for this question and allow me to respond to it. First of all, what you quoted about the EU's ICT complaints is a question of the end of last year. Since then, we have been able to establish cooperation with both the ICT Union and the Economic Chamber, the Confederation of Industry and Transport, with which we work together to make European money possible. We are trying to complete the National Plan for New Generation Networks, so that it will be submitted by the end of June. I have another meeting with the representatives of those organizations tomorrow, and we'll confirm where we got to. I want to show you one thing. In the meantime, we managed to achieve that we finally have an idea of what it looks like to cover high-speed internet in the Czech Republic. [[He's showing a sketch.]] We're going to have a rather intense debate about this because the map is far blacker than expected. It seems that the private sector is able to build high-speed networks in most of the Czech Republic without the participation of European funds. At this point - I note that I will still be debating this tomorrow - it seems that in those white territories, because we do not want to build it either on Doupov or in Boletice or on Libová, there are 790,000 households that could be involved in the final stage in building a high-speed Internet. Yes, it is, therefore, if it is proven that we need the money, the deadline is 30 November, to meet the consistency 2.2 for drawing this money, as the European Commission requires. I would like to add that, once the national plan has been approved, there will still have to be a consultation with the sector, which means verifying that no one really wants to build the Internet there through private funds. Because the European Commission logically wants public money to be spent only where the private sector does not build it on its own. There's one more thing we're trying to figure out. It turned out that when we were debating whether all the major players were represented in the forum, and not only the main players who were mentioned here, the ICT Union, the Chamber of Commerce, the SPD, but all the associations of the Wifi companies, it turned out that there was another group of entities dealing with it. In some municipalities, for example in Pilsen, there are non-profit organizations that operate on a completely different principle and do not fall into the sector from the point of view of ČTÚ, because the ČTÚ has it according to the law so that only the business entity is the one with which it communicates. I have called on them, if these entities feel, to continue to be communities other than those non-profit organizations, so that they will also be involved in this discussion. Because it was still a set of entities not business, which are also relevant for the development of high-speed internet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u190	Thank you, too. The Member will ask you an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u191	I want to thank the Minister for his comprehensive answer. I have no reason at this time to believe that the Czech Republic can handle this situation, and believe that we will follow it as opposition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u192	Okay. Thank you. I will therefore request an interview from Mr Daniel Korte. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u193	Thank you for the floor. vážený Minister, the Police of the Czech Republic cannot pretend that they do not know that a group of people have been illegally occupying the so-called Autonomous Social Centre of the Clinic for several months. The fundamental feature of the rule of law to which we declare ourselves is legality. Public authorities may do only what the law expressly permits them, while citizens may do everything that the law does not forbid them. However, unauthorized use of non-residential space is a criminal offence. I quote Penal Code § 208 Unlawful interference with the right to the house, apartment or non-residential space. First of all, the Court of Justice of 1: Anyone illegally occupying or using another's house, apartment or non-residential space will be punished with imprisonment for up to two years or by cash punishment. Paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3: By the removal of liberty for six months to five years or by a cash penalty the perpetrator shall be punished (a) if the action referred to in paragraph 1 is committed. 1 as a member of an organized group, etc. Minister, how is it possible that the Police of the Czech Republic is idly watching this in the public media so shaken by the violation of the law, and how is it possible that the police are interfering only under fictitious pretexts, yet rather ridiculous, because of supposedly some explosive device being planted? What are you going to do about this illegal state?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u194	I thank you and ask the Home Secretary to answer your question. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u195	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, a fictitious pretext, i.e. information on the imposition of a destructive explosive system, does not strike me as fictitious. I do not expect Mr Korte to feel that the police are writing these submissions themselves, or the anonymity itself. And of course, every such information the police take very seriously. An example of this was the conclusion of yesterday's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which many of us witnessed. I guess I could be debating why, if, for whatever reason, the police completely vacate this building and hand it over to the owner, that is, the State Representation Office in property matters, why doesn't the owner act so that these people can't go back there. I think it's normal for you to secure your own property, even at the expense of a private security agency. The police cleared the building twice, handed it over twice to the owner, and they went back twice. If the owner of the facility wasn't able to secure it, I don't know. There are about two or three criminal charges that are mostly under investigation. That means they're living things. I don't have any more detailed information. But as for the first time that the police have investigated and investigated these criminal reports, a loan agreement has been concluded between the tenants of the Clinic, or the users of the Clinic and the state. That means it doesn't fit the civil hazard or the danger of someone entering the non-residential area by force. But it's about these people having a relationship, in this case it was a loan, and basically after the loan, they didn't occupy that space. It is not, therefore, a situation where someone deliberately, de facto using violence, may enter an area to which he has no legal relationship at all. It is for this reason that the first investigation, in the first criminal report, the police assessed that there was not such a high level of civil hazard or danger to society, so that it would have to approach violent eviction. Notabene between the borrowers and the State is currently in dispute where they are attacking the very situation where the loan was terminated by the State, therefore, has not been extended. Of course, it is necessary to await the decision of the court in this matter. We're waiting to see how the Office of State representation stands up to this, but I don't expect it to stand up to that before the court takes a final decision on the matter. I suppose, and today I read in the media that also the city section, i.e. Prague 3, is filing another criminal report, which, of course, will be dealt with by the police as a standard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u196	I thank you and ask whether Mr Korte wants to ask an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u197	I thank the Minister for his reply. I was particularly comforted by the fact that there was a criminal complaint and that the police were involved. That's information I didn't know. I understand, of course, that great responsibility lies with the Office of State representation in property matters, which is part of and organizational part of the Ministry of Finance, and that Minister Babiš is responsible for this. In that matter, I also formulated my interpelation, which unfortunately there will be no time for. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u198	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Radim Holeček has his interpellation now, but I don't see him anywhere here. In the event that the Member is not present, we will continue in the next order, and this is Mrs Olga Havlová, who I will request for her intervention. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Another of my interpelations is to the Minister of the Interior and it is about the management of cities and municipalities. I'm submitting this interview because I've been approached by a lot of representatives, and I'd like them to hear the Minister's reply. The independent competence and right to self-government is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Czech Republic and the State can only enter the activities of local authorities when it requires the protection of the law. Interestingly, both municipal and municipal councils manage taxpayers' money, but they cannot control the economy of municipalities and cities. A kind of pseudo-control of the management of the property and the funds of the municipality have financial committees which are legally compulsory. However, they have no authority to impose tasks and measures. The representative shall also not be obliged to place an opinion or a proposal from the Committee on the agenda. So much community law. When we look at the reality of how it works in practice, the Financial Committee may not have any control rights at all. The government coalition will place its people as presidents of both the control committee and the financial committee, and therefore there will be no transparent control. Although the municipality has an obligation to ensure a review of the management, by an audit firm for taxpayers' money, or to request a free review of the management of the regional authority, this is not used. And so it happens that the same audit firm conducts the same audit firm for 15 years. In the Senate, the law has not yet been approved in order to carry out control by an independent supervisory authority. It is therefore concluded that the management of the municipality is not being controlled yet. Minister, are you planning any measures or changes to the law so that the management of municipalities can be carried out by an impartial body, unless it is the SAO? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u200	Thank you for your interpellation and I'll ask the Minister. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u201	Mr President, honourable Members, I thought a little bit that the previous interpellation was for the Minister of Finance of Babiš, and so I think so too, but let me just make a few comments. The impact on the de facto rights of municipalities is very significantly limited by the Constitution of the Czech Republic and I think that the self-governing role of municipalities is correct. You said very well here, Madame, about the management review, which is either an auditor for money, or the regional authority does it. As I recall, while I was still the governor, about half of the municipalities in the Plzeň Region used the possibility of a regional office. It was free of charge and the regional authority gradually had to increase the number of people who were able to do these reviews in real time. The scope of the Ministry of the Interior for supervision and control of the performance of the independent functions of municipalities is limited by competence exclusion. The supervision and control of the Ministry of the Interior are according to § 124 para. 6 expressly excludes, inter alia, cases where the supervision or control of the exercise of separate powers is governed by a specific regulation. From this we argue that therefore the primary possibility of reviewing the management of municipalities has on the shoulders of the Ministry of Finance, according to § 4 para. 1 of Law No. 2/1969 Coll., on the establishment of ministries and their central bodies of the state administration of the Czech Republic, as amended. This means de facto, the supervisory authority, the supervisory authority in this matter is the Ministry of Finance. It follows from the above that the entire agenda of the management review falls within the competence of the Ministry of Finance, and precisely for this reason the Ministry of the Interior does not count on any adjustment. I think, my colleague, that it is to think about what you said and that it might be worth changing the law at least the obligation of municipalities to change an audit firm after some time, five or seven years. I guess that's for debate. I think Minister Babiš is listening and will consider whether this might be appropriate to change. Otherwise, for the Ministry of the Interior the factual scope, the actual possibility to control the management of municipalities, is very complex.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-006-232.u202	Thank you. I ask the honourable Member whether she wants to ask an additional question. It's not like that. Since the last interpelation can be laid at 17.55 a.m. and we have 17.56, so I'm done with today's interpelation. I'm interrupting the House of Deputies until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning.
