ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-004-066.u1	66. Government bill amending Act No. 321/2004 Coll., on wine-growing and wine-growing and amending certain related laws (the Act on wine-growing and wine-growing), as amended /German press 712/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal will be made by the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-004-066.u2	Thank you. Good morning, Mr President, dear colleagues. Allow me to introduce a government bill amending Act No. 321/2004 Coll., on wine-growing and wine-growing and amending certain related laws, the Act on wine-growing and wine-growing, as amended. The translated bill has two key objectives. The first is the adaptation of the legal order of the Czech Republic by a new directly applicable and immediately applicable EU regulation. As a result, a new system of authorisations for vine planting for the period until 31 December 2030, including penalties for the non-use of vines, and a new system of authorisations for the re-planting of vineyards, are implemented. The second objective of the bill is to combat various forms of the black market in wine. This means setting an adjustment to ensure better regulation, the handling of unpacked vine products and, in particular, cask wine, which represents a significant part of the market for wine in the Czech Republic. Vine products, in particular unpacked wines, respectively. barrel wines as one of the types of unpacked wines have become one of the most falsified agricultural products in recent years. According to data from the State Agricultural and Food Inspection Authority, the proportion of non-compliant barrel wine samples is continuously between 32 and 38 percent. The bill was prepared in a broad discussion with the wine-growing wine-growing public, which was definitely not easy. The Government discussed the proposal on 21. 12. and was interrupted with the need to find a match on the method and control of the sale of barrel wine. The result of the subsequent discussion is the proposed amendment, which was approved by the Government on 18. 1. 2016...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-004-066.u3	Please continue, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-004-066.u4	The proposal now, as presented to the Chamber of Deputies, contains in particular the following key issues: It limits the number of barrel wine sales points. In principle, it is proposed to prohibit the sale of barrel wines, excluding wine producers' establishments or recipients of foreign unpacked wine. In this context, it is necessary to add that the wine producer is also a legal entity that has the wine processed by another body for the purpose of putting it into circulation. Similarly, the recipient is not only an entity that brings unpacked wine to foreign countries itself, but also one who has it brought to another entity. It also defines the category of packaging in which wine can be sold to the consumer. It's Section 3. There is no specific transport container for barrel wine. This is under the category of unpacked wine when sold to the consumer and due to further restrictions on sales articles. It is therefore not necessary to define it further. As part of the sale of wine to the consumer from packaging intended for the consumer, so-called brewed wine, basically bag-in-box up to 20 liters volume and spilled wine up to five liters. Both of these categories could be used by retailers to circumvent the keg wine regime and therefore they need to be explicitly adjusted. It regulates the publication of a part of the vineyard register, from which it will be evident on-line, in which premises producers or recipients of foreign unpacked wine sell keg wine. This measure, among other things. will contribute to the elimination of illegal, unannounced marquee wine outlets. It also brings an increase in consumer information when selling barrel wine, brewed wine and spilled wine. In the case of wine in a packaging intended for consumers, which has been produced or stuffed in the Czech Republic, it is proposed that, in order to protect the consumer, an indication of the provenance of the wine is also required on the front label. It is § 16 para. 4. Furthermore, a voluntary logotype is introduced. It is § 16 para. 5. On the packaging of wines with a protected designation of origin or a protected geographical indication produced from grapes harvested in the territory of the Czech Republic, it introduces a notification obligation for recipients, § 14a, of all foreign unpacked wines, i.e. not only casks, and other foreign wine products. It imposes an obligation to store unpacked wine on arrival in the Czech Republic for ten days at the place of destination. Thus, not at the border, but at the place of the first wine intake, § 14b, for the purpose of possible inspection by the State Agricultural and Food Inspection. Furthermore, it provides for an increase in the upper limit of fines and administrative offences relating to the newly defined counterfeiting of wine products and infringements of the newly introduced obligations in the fight against the black market in wine to an amount of 50 million. Crowns. In the case of really large-scale fraud, the current maximum rate is up to 5 million. The Czech crowns are inadequate and do not have sufficient preventive educational effect. Therefore, it is not sufficient to cover the illegal profits the perpetrator receives from the illegal activity. In view of the need for the implementation of the new permit system for vine planting established since the beginning of this year by the European Commission regulation, I would like to ask you nicely for the possibility of shortening the discussion of this amendment in committees in the Chamber of Deputies to 30 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-004-066.u5	I thank Minister Marian Jurečka and ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Pavel Kováčik to present his report. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-004-066.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. The Minister has very detailed the main problems covered by the bill. I add that this is about specifying and tightening the protection of consumers in particular and protecting honest producers and honest distributors of wine. It is known that various illegal or semi-legal groups after the sale of marooned or similar alcohol, whether it was an alcohol affair or whether it was methyl alcohol, etc., are thrown in a completely different direction. And wine is one of the areas where it can happen that consumers will at least be deceived, if not threatened with health by the consumption of illegal products. That's why this law is coming. It also comes to adopt some news from the EU into the Czech rule of law. News that are positive. We have a few circles to discuss with the wine and wine-growing public. The discussion is underway. Before the law came to the Chamber of Deputies, a media campaign took place, several different seminars took place with the participation of the wine and wine-growing public, and I think this one is sufficiently familiar. It also has enough, I would say, to step up to the law here in the Chamber of Deputies, in the cooperation of Members, ministerial servants and the professional public, in the form that... Or the outcome of the discussion will be positive for both consumers and manufacturers and distributors. Just a request to shorten the deadline. If the Chamber of Deputies decides on it, we, of course, are able to discuss it as an agricultural committee in our well-known work force. However, as regards the effectiveness of the law from 1 January next year, the agricultural committee is able to deal with the discussion even if it is possible to return from the Senate. Even with the possibility of returning from the Castle in such a time as to make the law valid and effective from 1 January next year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-004-066.u7	I thank the rapporteur for his intelligence report. I am opening a general debate in which I have two applications so far. The first is Mr Herbert Pavera's enrollment. Mr Bendl will be ready. My colleague Pavera isn't, so my colleague Bendl is the first. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-004-066.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, let me also say a few words about this unimportant law, which, as the rapporteur has said, has already been proposed by the agricultural committee, because this material is very moving by the wine industry and by all wine producers. Not only what is written in it, but also the way in which it was discussed, because there was a matter in the comment procedure that was not quite standard, because the wine-growing public agreed on some compromises in the draft law, and in the end, in the course of the discussion, there were changes after the comment procedure, which I do not say are not legitimate, but many wine-makers feel a bit of a hug and a bit of an abuse, which they make quite vehemently clear. And the Minister - or his subordinates, who are in charge of these things, know their own. The Minister did not. As far as I know, the meeting to which he was called by the very discontented ones with this bill did not attend the meeting. [[10.40 hours]] This material is the one that's being promoted, it's argued by some study we've been promised. I have spoken to the President of the Wine Fund several times, and so have my colleagues. We were promised that the study that the Wine Fund has at its disposal, the number of paddings and the amount of padding of wine and category, etc., simply the details that are being operated on today that we will get this study. We haven't gotten it yet. I would like to ask whether, for example, the Minister has it or whether one of the members of the agricultural committee has it, because in the study on which it is based, and I will say by which the regulations and restrictions on the business in the Czech Republic on the sale of wine are justified, they are reportedly described in this study, which none of us have seen so far. I hope that there will be an opportunity to get to know her during the negotiations, although I would rather see her before the first reading, so that one can assess the extent to which the new bureaucratic steps and regulations and restrictions presented, to what extent they are really needed. Or if it happens not to be, and it seems so at the moment, rather a struggle for how to raise the price of wine on the market, about how to limit those who are the cheapest at the moment, which are salesmen of barrel wine. The sale of barrel wine, on which there is quite a lot of pressure, all sellers should actually be forced into new costs in the future, because these regulations lead to the need to sell wine not in barrels, but in new specialized containers, which logically will have to be included in those costs. The Minister himself said it would be a restriction on wine outlets. We know there are about 15,000 wine shops in the Czech Republic. For example, the bill entails a duty not to become a vendor, but must be registered as a producer, so there are a number of bureaucratic steps that we have not yet discussed in detail, but I believe that we will focus on it in the agricultural committee, what it actually means for every winemaker today, which works as a distribution network, and now I will say for the smallest winemakers who do not bottle, who sell their wine right through the wine shop, what it will mean in practice, what bureaucratic steps it will actually bring today. It is said that it concerns the marquis' wine mainly, or it is said by the proponents of the bill, that it is mainly about cask wine. Well, from the customer's point of view, when I go to the wine shop to buy keg wine, I get 99 percent, and I only leave that one percent because I'm not sure it wouldn't happen anywhere, the chance to taste the wine I buy. I have a chance to tell the winemaker, give me a taste, I'll try what you have, I'll take a grand, I'll buy a half, I won't buy anything, because I'm just not gonna like the wine. I don't have that chance with bottled wine. I'm gonna go buy a bottle of wine, open it at home, find it's good, all right, I'll drink it. Or it's broken, I'm not wearing anything anymore, I just have to go buy some new wine if I want to buy some wine. Here's the advantage of the keg wine. We are here in this bill introducing, or the Ministry of Agriculture and the proponents of this bill introduce some steps that the winemakers generally criticise. There's one that the Minister of Agriculture has been talking about, and that's an obligation in case someone brings the barrel wine in the tank, they have to wait ten days to see if one of the controllers comes to take a sample, and the sample is sent to the lab. These laboratories are not in the Czech Republic, but are outside the Czech Republic, Austria, and it will take weeks to confirm or disprove whether or not the wine is okay. In any case, it is contrary to the current state of the extension of the period of use and the possibility of using this imported wine, and this means, of course, more costs not only for storage, but also the time when the funds start to return, because the sample thus checked would have to stay in the Czech Republic for a longer period of time before it is confirmed or refuted, whether or not the wine was oversized. I will no longer mention some of the details that this law also brings. I believe that the agricultural committee will eventually be able to deal with them. I mean, you know, I'm sorry I can't use the exact wording, but you can't have water or water in your storage areas. This matter is there. It's, I think, a trifle that we're able to out-of-law. But overall, I am deeply convinced that this is a law that will not benefit in the overall form as it is written, the winery as a whole. Yes, he will help some, but he will hurt some. I think we could have negotiated a better compromise with those winemakers, and if they were more listened especially to by the little ones who, as I say, do not bottle and use wine-teakers as their actually extended hands, for which their own business is not enough due to their turnovers, it would certainly be for the benefit of the thing, not only the culture of wine that we have to start drinking from those pack-in-boxes or bag-in-boxes, as they call it, and we will no longer be able to have it in such a quantity, in such reachable, I say, distance, because it also has to do with the amount of operating or sales sites. If the Minister of Agriculture here says he wants to regulate the number of sales points, then I think it's something that's definitely for thought. And the question is, should the government do it, isn't it the customer who actually regulates the number of seats in his principle? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-004-066.u9	I thank Mr Petr Bendl. My colleague Pavera is duly excused, so his application is forfeit. Prime Minister, then Mr. Mr. Jiří Petrů. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-004-066.u10	Thank you. I would like to respond to what Mr Bendl said here in the debate. As far as the study is concerned, it was mainly the argumentative material for the Wine Fund, not primarily for the Ministry of Agriculture. For us, the long-term results of the findings of the State Agricultural and Food Inspection Authority are sufficient argumentative material, where we simply move between 32 and 38 per cent of the samples taken for barrel wine, where we find serious errors, which may also possibly have a very significant negative impact on the consumer's health in the future. It's really not like any fun at all, and we can't close our eyes to this and just say: there's nothing going on in this market, and there's really no problem, and that's why we don't have to deal with anything. This is the most important argument for us that we simply need to do something about this situation from the point of view of consumer health and from the point of view of protecting those who act as honest producers or suppliers of quality wine on the market. [[10.50 hours]] You were here referring to the negotiations with the wine-growing public, Mr Bendle, through Mr President. I want to take a hard look. I didn't accept an invitation to an urgent meeting called by Senator Valenta for several reasons. I didn't know he had any expert erudition for wine. I see no reason why I should go to a meeting called by a senator who wants to sue the Czech Republic and hold arbitration with it. I see no reason why I would participate in and support such an event, in addition, in a situation where at that time we announced to the whole wide wine and wine-growing public that in Great Bílovice all Friday I spent the whole day discussing with winemakers, wine-makers, which I also did. I was there, there were colleagues from the ÚKZÚZ, from the State Agricultural and Food Inspection, I was there for several hours and I answered all the questions that everyone had the opportunity to ask freely. I think there's been quite a lot of communication. And a lot of the things that have been said in there have been taken away as an incentive for a possible debate here in the Chamber of Deputies. So please, don't put it in here, or... I have to reject your theory that I haven't been communicating with the wine industry. The public was given the opportunity, and everyone who wanted to come to the Great Bílovice. And the O.R. still had the spare capacity to get people there. There were 350 of them, a hundred of them would fit in without a problem. So about that much. As far as you're saying that we're basically making the system more complicated here, I'll tell you four points, one simple four points, what's going to happen now for whoever has a wine shop and wants to continue selling keg wine. What happens is that he has to register at the ÚKZÚZ in the vineyard register. Quite simple banal operations, when all wine producers in the Czech Republic, and there are hundreds of them, are registered in this way. The second step, they will have a contract either with the producer or importer of wine in the territory of the Czech Republic. The third step, they will keep a record, which they have to do as standard -- gentlemen, who laugh at it, I think anyone who sells and has stocks, I was in charge of the store, I was in charge of the warehouse, so in that warehouse, a regular person keeps records of the stock. And one last thing, once a year, to give the result of that annual sale back to the ÚKZÚZ. When I talk to normal people who are in this system, they say: This is a good, acceptable compromise for me as an honest importer or an honest Moravian or Czech wine producer to have a stable and fair environment. If I'm here to make wine and compete with somebody who drives marinated wine from abroad for 12, for 14 crowns, and for me as a landlord, the costs are somewhere around 30, and I sell it for 40, 45, it's not fair and fair. If, fellow Members of the TOP 09 and the ODS, you really want to defend honest businessmen, as you declare to us here, let us consider, without ideological emotions, how to ensure a fair, equal business environment that these people are calling for. When I discuss this novel, and I am a man from Moravia, and a lot of winemakers, my friends, with whom I have had long years of business relations and practically talked about these things for quite a long time, they say to us: This amendment brings improvements to the business environment. Who has a problem with this amendment is the one who brought wine to the Czech Republic, and for many years his economic profit was built on the fact that it was carried black and the wine was hovered. Let's face it. Yes, there's a ten-day deadline. But that's the importer in the first place. The importer is in a situation today where he brings wine from some other states, I don't want to name it, and if he doesn't invest in analysis and samples and sends the wine to distribution, and then, as part of the supervisory activities, we figure it out, then the fines are so crucial to him that if he had invested and the wine returned to the supplier on import, then the protection of his business would have been at a completely different level. And it is not here what you are saying, Mr Bendle, through Mr President, that there are some endless deadlines. If we don't come in and take samples within ten days, the wine can run further into the production process, and we guarantee that we will take the sample and within days - because at the first indication in our laboratory in Brno we know if there is a problem with the wine, whether there is an increased water content, glycerol and so on. And that's what they're doing with further analysis. And we'll inform the client of how long, if possible, whether two or three weeks will be further analyses that indicate that the wine has a problem, and it's in the interests of the importer or the trader. I really have to say no, and I'm gonna ask you nicely not to feel this way, it's nonsense and it's not true that it would be forbidden to have a water duct in the case of wine making. That's really something some people here said. And then some who said it in media terms came to me and said, "We're taking it back because that's not how the law talks in this case." So let's not do some of the things that aren't there. And you said I wanted to regulate the number of places. I didn't say it like that. That's where the wording in my opening words was different. I say that there can be regulation and limitation of the number of places where barrel wine will be served if the seller fails to comply with the four things I have mentioned. But if he decides to keep serving wine, he'll sell it in a bag-in-box. That's all. That means the curfew, the nonstop one that doesn't have a relationship with the winemaker and doesn't meet the four steps I've named, so he'll still be selling wine, but in a bag-in-box that gives a far greater guarantee of control, traceability and greater quality for the consumer. So I would really like us to take this amendment seriously as well as to prevent it from being repeated in the wine sector similar to the alcohol case in the case of low-quality alcohols that have been administered in the Czech Republic, because really some findings in the case of glycerol content may already be health-threatening. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-004-066.u11	Thank you, Minister of Agriculture. And now, before my colleague Petrů comes, I will ask him to wait, because there are two factual remarks from Mr Bendl and Mr Kučera. So, my colleague Bendl will make a proper statement and Mr Kučera will make a point of order. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-004-066.u12	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I've only been very brief. Here, the Minister has appointed the TOP 09 Club to act or protest against this law. If I have noticed, we are at first reading, none of the members of the TOP 09 have yet to speak or share their views. Well, I don't know what you're so judgmental about. So please don't call us that, we haven't even given our opinion, and your comment was premature.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-004-066.u13	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Jiří Petrů, then the Prime Minister and then Mr Bendl. Mr. Jiří Petrů now. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-004-066.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues. Let me greet you from inside the winery in the Czech Republic, from Valtice, the capital of wine, when we are already discussing the wine law. The wine law 321/2004 brought a huge development of winery in the Czech Republic and also helped to improve wine quality. And now the amendment is coming, and like the Act on addictive substances, there is only talk about the quality of wine, not about that part of the law, which will allow winemakers in the Czech Republic to increase the area of vineyards by one percent each year. This is also a very important matter for winemakers. So one of the parts of this wine law is that the European Parliament's regulation of 17 December 2013 was adopted, and this makes it possible to increase vineyards. The second part, of course, concerns increasing the quality of wine, especially the unpacked one. And here we really need everyone to really get to know what it is, unpacked wine, what it is, cask wine, spicy wine, which is spilled wine. 70 per cent of wine is imported into the Czech Republic, which is consumed here. Of these 70 percent of wine, of course, there are statistics that control the Czech Trade Inspection and the like. Only 1 292 samples were taken in 2015, and 240 samples showed that they were inadequate. This amendment has nothing else to do but to ensure that the consumer obtains quality wine, so that it is not padded in different ways, more water, more sulphur, other preservatives and so on. It was also said here that an analysis must be made abroad. Please, the Czech Trade Inspection Authority can distinguish such matters today, I do not want to go completely in detail, but if, for example, it is possible today to make wine from the extract that comes from abroad, they are able to distinguish whether there is tied water or if it is natural water that is in the wine. So these are the details. Today, you can prove everything with wine. [[11.00 hours]] So it's for wine quality and it's for consumers. If the trend in Europe, whether it is in Austria, Germany, Switzerland, is such that measures are taken to increase the quality of wine, for example, winemakers in Austria have understood it. If you're going to Wachau, you know they've set their own quality beyond wine law. They're three categories - Emerald, Federspiel and Steinfelder. I believe that the next stage of the development of winery in the Czech Republic, and all winemakers support this, is to improve quality. For the sake of completeness, I will just say that I have been present several times in the preparation of the amendment to the law. He has great support from the Association of Winemakers of the Czech Republic. It has great support from the Union of Czech Moravian associations of winemakers and vineyards. The winemakers would like to move it a little further so that, for example, there is a flag on the wine valve, that the wine is originating in the Czech Republic and that the grapes are from the Czech Republic. Although the law speaks of it being on the label, these are nuances that can, of course, be adjusted in the context of the wine law. I strongly support this amendment and support it by all reasonable winemakers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-004-066.u15	Thank you, Mr Petrů. I'll read some apologies. Minister Chovanec apologizes from 11 a.m. to the end of the day and Mr Skalický between 13 a.m. and 14 p.m. Now, Prime Minister with priority rights. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-004-066.u16	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to prolong the debate as part of the first reading of this amendment. Allow me, however, to make a few comments. I am among those who believe that it is good that the Ministry of Agriculture has come up with this amendment. That's Note No. 1. Note No 2. This isn't something coming from above, this change of law. We often see changes to the laws that we are doing here because the European Commission is proposing something, or we are making proposals and amendments to the laws here, because the government coalition has agreed on it, we have it in the coalition and government program. But this is something that came from downstairs. It has been going on for many months, and I would say, unfortunately, many years of discussions that have taken place, which have been initiated by winemakers in particular, those who have been dissatisfied with the conditions that exist on our market today in terms of access to those who are honest and access to those who are trying to cheat not only on the state but mainly on consumers. So the initiative came from downstairs. It's a good thing the Department of Agriculture responded to it. The Government has clearly supported this proposal, and I would also like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to support this proposal, so that it can release it now for second reading, so that we can approve it as soon as possible. I believe that this is in favour of honest winemakers, it is in favour of honest sellers. And I agree with what Mr Petrů said moments before me. This is a law that is also for the benefit of the consumer. This is an important standard that will improve the conditions, and the consumer will be more sure if he goes to the wine shop for example. I would also be in favour of approving the proposal with experience and reflection of what we experienced in the spirit sector. Sometimes we react too late. Even this Parliament responds too late by tightening up laws, setting standards to prosecute dishonest cheaters, so that we can actually run them from the point of view of legislation. I remember very well what happened when it came to spirits, the problems that were there, health, tax, and so on. Winning wine is a problem. We should respond to him, we should limit this negative phenomenon to the maximum. I would also like to ask the Chamber of Deputies not to succumb to the law's efforts to dismantle it. No doubt there will be various proposals that will say that the measures are too strict, too administratively demanding, that we would actually do without them, that there is no reason that everyone is actually being polite, ethically, that no one is actually cheating and that there is no need for us to have such a law here. Let us not allow the standard to be diluted, because only if we manage to maintain its basic shape, how it was prepared by the Ministry after the discussion with the winemakers and how it was approved by the government and the measure will be effective. If this is diluted during the debate with amendments, it will be just a slap in the water, which will not bring any real improvement for winemakers or consumers. And the very last thing to conclude. We had a big problem in the countryside and, of course, it is reflected in a number of areas to this day: As agricultural efficiency increased, people left agricultural companies, employment in rural areas decreased. And today wine-growing, wine-growing is one of the few ways to create new jobs, to keep jobs in rural areas. And those who manage wine here in the Czech Republic, who grow wine here, who produce wine, take care of vineyards, create jobs, they deserve us to stand up for them as people who create values, create jobs here, and are very often exposed to unfair competition, which makes job creation very difficult for them. That is why I think there is also a reason why we should clearly support this law as a parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-004-066.u17	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now with the priority right of the rapporteur and then colleague Bendl with a proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-004-066.u18	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, even the critics of this proposal will be right that a sharp increase in the quality of wine on the Czech, Moravian and Silesian markets has one of the main reasons for the adoption of a quality wine law here, which did nothing but honesty and quality. It hasn't been amended in a long time either. In fact, the first major amendment that is, comes only now and comes just after it has been found that the new quality that is coming here is not always in favour of the consumer, is not always in favour of our manufacturer or seller, now I mean in favour of an honest manufacturer or seller. And the rare agreement with the vast majority of vintners and vintners, the rare agreement that the proposal comes from downstairs consulted, is not quite common. I would like to ask - and it is not a game of opposition, a coalition, it is a game of further improvement of quality, for further promotion of consumer protection, but also that after joining the European Union we had a very difficult position in further expansion of vineyard planting. Only now does this proposal come up with the fact that the truth, slowly - 1% that the Minister mentioned here, is not quite so much, but it is just something. After years of having, as they say, a stop stop stop, we have a chance to slowly expand resources. The Czech, Moravian and Silesian winemaker, if so, is able to fill our market, to satisfy our consumer about a little more than half the consumption. The rest has to be delivered. It's not about being imported because we're not able to make it, but because our natural conditions don't allow it. This law provides that where natural conditions allow it, it is possible to extend production by extending planting to at least the potential that is here in the Czech Republic. The fact that a significant part of consumption has to be imported means that there must also be increased control for such imports, increased supervision so that consumers have confidence in wine as such, a healthy drink, which, in mild and controlled consumption, even the doctors present will give me credit for it, benefits human health. Let our discussion in this Chamber of Deputies bear in mind that it is mostly a technical amendment, mostly a correction over the years of small problems and one big problem, and that is the overpowerment, and let this law come out objectively better, better, better objectively better, better and better for the Czech, Moravian and Silesian consumers. [[11.10 hours]] As rapporteur, I support the negotiation of this law, I also support the fact that the Organising Committee has ordered it to order it to the Committee on Agriculture. I do not think there is another committee, of course there are many committees that would like and could discuss, but which would give it more quality than the agricultural one. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-004-066.u19	I thank the rapporteur and now two apologies before my colleague Bendl. Mr Štětina and Mrs Marie Pěnčíková have apologized from 13:15 and from 11:30. Mr Bendl is now duly enrolled in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-004-066.u20	Thank you for the floor. I have to say from the discussion that he is right, or I feel that the Prime Minister is right rather than the Minister of Agriculture, because the Prime Minister here says that it is the material that came from below, not from above, that it is the material that they forced, at least this is how I read it, that from below does not mean the Ministry of Agriculture, but from below it means winemakers. But there is an argument here not by the material, which was just argued from below, i.e. Something I've heard a lot about, but I haven't seen it yet, that's the study that should show what atrocities are happening in our market, which the Wine Fund hasn't published so far, and I wish he'd published that study. The Minister of Agriculture here said that the State Agricultural and Food Inspection Authority records about 30%, such a number I have noticed, error rate or, if you want to know, something unfair is happening in the area of wine sales. Well, I think he's okay. From my point of view, it's more information that the control system works, that those who do something bad are being prosecuted, there's just 30 percent of the findings, so I wouldn't look at it because there should be 60 or 70. I think that the inspection works quite well in this respect and it is a good thing that these numbers exist. I don't think that's why we should be offended about this. Yes, there's a new bureaucracy coming in, and I'm glad that it's here confirmed that it's not just a register of people dealing with wine that's going to be created, but also a register, or if you want to register sales points, i.e. We're gonna be registering someone again and loading up who does what or doesn't do what. As for what the Minister said here, there is an obligation for anyone who brings wine to wait ten days to see if one of the inspectors arrives to take a sample, and says that there will be probably not enough of them, or perhaps a reasonable one. Anyway, everyone's gonna have to wait ten days, which hasn't been here yet, ten days they're gonna be waiting for those tanks somewhere, somebody's gonna have to have some kind of expense, they're gonna have to worry about nothing happening to the wine, which hasn't been here yet. I don't know if other countries have it when they export or take it somewhere or someone would like to transport Czech or Moravian wine production abroad, if they have to wait ten days in case they don't bottle it somewhere. And it is a question of how much this European Union would not take as a barrier to trade, but that is probably a question for the agricultural committee to act. However, it will be in the order of days, that's the first time I've heard it here. On the agricultural committee where we took this bill, such information did not fall, where, if I correctly noted the remarks, it seemed that it would be a maximum of two weeks before it was confirmed and it is possible to issue a protocol on whether or not there had been overcrowding or something unfair in the area of wine imports. I suppose the minister when he says that from the time of sampling to the moment of the relevant decision that wine is okay, that he knows what he's talking about, and he says, if it's within two days, so that in two days they'll be able to say yes, it's okay or no, we're sending for further investigation if that's how I understood it. This means that Czech inspectors will take the sample, put it in laboratories that may not be able to give the final verdict, but at least get partial information. The question is whether they will send a sample to Austria or send a sample to Austria at the same time and have it checked in the Czech Republic. Whether those times are gonna add up or those things run parallel to each other. That's a technical thing on the outside, but for a winemaker who's gonna be checked or not, it can play a role, because the moment you import that wine, that time is always in business, time is money. And even this can affect the quality of wine sales on the Czech market. One more comment. You really are here, Minister, talking about the aim being to limit the number of sales points. I believe it will be traced here in the record, after all. And I would like to say this to the Prime Minister, because the wine shop is around 15 000 in the Czech Republic, which is, I suppose, about 30,000 people employed in this area, plus minus, maybe somewhere there will be a family business, etc. that doesn't have to produce. However, the law put forward by the government makes these vendors of barrel wine or wine wine a wine producer and must register at the trade office not as a mere seller, but as a producer, which is a bit illogical, you must acknowledge, Prime Minister, that it is not entirely logic itself. When someone doesn't make wine, they just sell it, but it needs to be registered as a manufacturer, that it's not exactly kosher. But these are things that I believe we will eventually discuss in the agricultural committee, although I cannot do anything for myself after my argument rather than propose a return of the law to the petitioner for revision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-004-066.u21	I thank Mr Bendl, that was the last one entered into the debate. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking for final words. Mr. Secretary? Yes, please, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-004-066.u22	Thank you. So I appreciate those who really rationally argued here whether personal experience or knowledge after discussion with people who are orienting in the field. I would just like to say that I am sorry that my fellow Member Bendl, who has been Minister of Agriculture for two years, has not been orienting himself in these basic matters, such as terminology, when we are talking about the vineyard register, which is under the Central Audit and Testing Institute of the Agricultural, not under the Trade Office, we are not talking about the register of persons. Those are the basic terms used at the resort. I don't want to argue here about whether initiative from the bottom, from the top or from the middle. I just think that we make legislation from a number of aspects at the resort. When it comes to the transposition of European law, we do it, of course, if we perceive the problems that we see in practice from the point of view of our activity, our supervisory authorities, and if we see and discuss with the agricultural public that they have problems, we try to deal with them legislatively. And that is the case with this amendment of this law, which is here today before us. So I'd really like to watch it here, not if it came from above or below, that's not the most important thing right now. There's a problem, the problem is serious, and we're trying to solve it. To say that there's 32 percent of the samples, that it's actually okay and that the supervisory authorities actually work well. I assume the supervisory authorities are supposed to work well. But when I see that there's a flaw that doesn't decrease, on the contrary, it's getting even higher, so we just have to do something about it in the system. In that system, we see that we have a problem with the enforcement of the law, we have a chain here, then we end up with a company that's already somewhere anonymous at that time, virtually. You can't reach anyone at that address, the company will end, you don't have anyone to sanction in administrative proceedings. So that's why there's a clear definition of who's in the position of doing business with the wine and how responsible it is. That's why the system is set up like this. [[11.20 hours]] And I just want to get back to one thing. The law doesn't say that someone has to stop selling barrel wine. The law merely specifies the conditions under which it is possible to sell keg wine further. And if everyone who sells wine today decides to meet those conditions, then they will. Then we don't have to talk about someone being limited to selling barrel wine. It's just that whoever has the place of sale decides what regime he wants to continue selling the wine. So about that much. I apologize to my colleagues at TOP 09 if I was prematurely assuming that they would have a problem with this law. I take it upon myself, take my apologies, please, and I will be happy to discuss this matter and possibly support this amendment. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-004-066.u23	I thank the Minister for his final word. The rapporteur's final word. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-004-066.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to confine myself to a very brief statement now. One single example, maybe why there's some resistance here. In total, there was talk of a subject called a bag-in-box, in Czech in translation perhaps an artificial - a bag in a box in which, in fulfillment of certain conditions, or vice versa, the wine can only sell under certain conditions. You know, it has the magic that that bag-in-box is a packaging that can't be filled repeatedly and therefore cannot be used to repeatedly endlessly fill and fill and sell, on one single paper, on one single barrel or cover, maybe hundreds, maybe thousands of liters of illegal wine. So this is one small example of how this proposal seeks to limit dishonesty, which, truth, can never be ruled out, cannot be controlled entirely by everyone, as cannot be controlled by every tanker, but on the basis of a certain risk analysis, it is already known which tanks and whom to control them. And I think the previous findings, the 32 percent of the dishonesty that we've seen so far, will almost certainly lead the inspectors to the right tanks. Those who didn't have a problem don't have to worry, it won't bring them any dramatic costs. It will give them confidence that they are labeled honest importers, honest manufacturers, and their goods everyone likes to buy. He fell here - and I must say this as rapporteur - a proposal to return the proposal to the petitioner for revision. I must say, as rapporteur, perhaps beyond my responsibilities at first reading, that I do not warmly support this proposal! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-22-ps2013-044-08-004-066.u25	I thank the rapporteur and we will follow the proposals that have been made in the debate. First of all, the motion to return, which we will vote on in the vote number 390. I'll check you out first, or I'll call in my co-workers from the lobby. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please sign up with your identification cards, and we will decide on the proposal from the debate to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion in voting order number 390, which I have just begun, and I ask who is in favour of the return. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 390 from 134 in favour of 12 in respect of 103. The motion was not accepted. We can therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Agricultural Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone else have a proposal for a guarantee committee? It's not like that. We can decide in the 391 vote that I have launched, and I ask who is the guarantee committee for the commandment to the agricultural committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 391, 136 for 134. [[against no one]] The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the agricultural committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to other committees. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee? It's not like that. I can therefore say that the 712 press was ordered to the agricultural committee as a guarantee committee and the deadline for the hearing remained under the law for 60 days. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and end with paragraph 66. According to the approved agenda, we have a number in front of us.
