ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u1	65. Government bill amending Act No. 114/1992 Coll., on the conservation of nature and landscape, as amended /house print 501/ - first reading We discussed this House press on 7 October when we interrupted its discussion in the general debate. I ask that the seats at the rapporteur's table be taken up by the Environment Minister Richard Brabec and the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Robin Böhnisch. I ask the appellant if he is interested in speaking at this stage. The rapporteur? Not either. Therefore, we will now continue the interrupted general debate. The word has been broken to Mr Zahradník, whom I now ask again to the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u2	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor after my speech here in the House on the draft law on the conservation of nature and landscape at first reading was interrupted by the fact that a certain point was firmly placed at that time, so I ended my speech. I'm just going to remind you very briefly what I was talking about before I stopped. I was talking about the genesis of the law. I was talking about national parks being set up by government regulations. One is legal. The law on conservation of nature and landscape is a law that applies for a long time. Since 1992, it has served well and its change has in fact been generated only by the House rejecting the Senate Bill on the National Park of Šumava at the end of 2014. The petitioner therefore took the view that an amendment to Law 114 should be prepared to address the issue of national parks in general. So he's going to establish all these parks with one law. I recalled the timeline of the law and ended when I recalled that the law had been passed by an inter-ministerial commentary procedure in which many ministries, but also the two regions on whose territory the national park was situated, expressed a negative opinion. The municipalities, which also disagreed with the proposal, were not participants in the inter-ministerial commentary procedure. The next step in the legislative process of making this law was to transfer it to the Government Legislative Council. It has made absolutely fundamental changes in this proposal, so crucial that I would allow myself to briefly review the proposal and to draw attention to the individual changes brought about by the Legislative Council of the Government. It may also be part of a certain strategy of the petitioner, environmental activists who are also behind this law, how to enforce this law in some form. All I recall is that the proposal that arose from the inter-ministerial commentary procedure was not acceptable for self-government in the territory of the national park for municipalities or for regions. [[14.50 hours]] Now, then, what the Government's Legislative Council has done. She changed the first paragraphs in the second, part 1 of the National Parks definition. From Section 15, which describes and defines what a national park is, it deleted from paragraph 2 "all use of national parks must be subject to the sustainable preservation of their ecologically stable natural ecosystems', the words "persistently sustainable'. I will also draw attention to the newly numbered paragraph 3: The long-term objective of protecting national parks is to preserve or gradually restore natural ecosystems, including ensuring the undisturbed course of natural events in their natural dynamics on the prevailing territory of national parks and maintaining or gradually improving the status of ecosystems whose existence is conditional on human activity. [[paragraph]] - This is actually ensuring a condition that environmentalists, environmentalists, call unattractiveness. It is also provided for in Article 15 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5 that national parks and their protection zones are declared by this law - which is important. I'll take the liberty of returning to that during my performance. Then there's talk of national parks. The original text of the proposal contained the clauses, the names of those paragraphs 15a to 15d in the form of the publication of the national park Podyjí, the publication of the national park Šumava. In the Government's Legislative Council, the word "pronounce" has been deleted, or the announcement in this law does not occur. Another important section is Section 16, which defines the basic protection conditions of national parks by listing activities that are prohibited throughout the territory of national parks, inter alia, need to permit or implement the deliberate expansion of geographically non-originating plant species. Here's where we think: how about potatoes or tomatoes? A further list of prohibitions shall be followed by paragraph 2 of the same paragraph as in the letter. (k) it has provisions which I would also like to remind myself: it is prohibited to regulate natural watercourses or to remove from the natural watercourses of the navigation or other natural obstacles arising, except in cases of imminent danger to the life or health of persons or the threat of significant damage to property. - That is when we read in the context that we have all decided and are ready to face the catastrophic drought that struck us last year, and which unfortunately, according to weather forecast, is at least strange. Furthermore, there are defined institutions that have free entry into the most protected territory of the national park, including customs, prison services. I also draw attention to the important paragraph, which is number 17, which defines and defines the peaceful territories of the national park, which is a new term in the terminology of national park protection. So far, the territory of the national park has been divided into three zones. The new draft law, in addition to the fact that it no longer introduces three but four zones, also mentions the possibility of declaring the peaceful territories of the national park: Peace areas are territories with limited movement of persons in order to allow for the undisturbed development of ecosystems or their components, which are sensitive to the excessive movement of persons and vulnerable due to the disruptive effects associated with them. - Let's note that there is talk here in a very general manner, i.e. it is possible to declare a resting area in any zone, first or fourth zone. How is the national park divided, so what are these zones? Section 18 The breakdown of the territory of national parks divides the territory into four zones: the natural zone, the nature zone close - the natural zone is the rarest, what was previously called the first zone, where entry was allowed only by permission of nature conservation authorities. So once again: natural zone, nature zone close, zone focused care of nature and finally the fourth, zone cultural landscape, where people are therefore allowed to live, territories where the areas of municipalities are usually built, territories designed for sustainable development, as the writing says here. (d) Paragraph 18 (1) of our Law. Paragraph 2 states a very significant claim that territories which do not meet the characteristics of the zones referred to in paragraph 1 may also be included in the individual zones, but their inclusion is necessary in order to maintain a uniform treatment of the zone and to achieve the objective of protecting the national park zone, i.e. those quality attributes as defined in the preceding points. [[paragraph]] In each zone, paragraph 3 shall then continue, the territories may also be included in the maximum continuous area of 5 ha which do not meet the characteristics of the zones referred to in paragraph 1 and which do not serve to achieve the objective of the national park zone, but their inclusion is necessary in order to maintain the integrity of the area. - Yes, I understand that. The petitioner is trying to prevent strict protected areas from being broken down into individual atomic parts. However, let us remember that even here, territorial interventions can be made in areas that may not be the rarest that should be protected. This is Section 18, par. 6 to which the Minister, the law maker, often argues and which says that the negotiation of changes in nature conservation zones of the national park can be done in accordance with paragraph 6 above. 5 start not earlier than 15 years after the entry into force of the measures of a general nature which have been declared, or as if a moratorium of 15 years. I will get to that, it is not a moratorium, it is a measure of a general nature that is mentioned here in this paragraph for the first time as an instrument by which individual measures will be implemented, so it is superior to zoning. National park zone mode. In the natural zone, it is § 18a - I draw attention to it, I will get to it soon - the regime of the national park zones, i.e. what is allowed in these zones, respectively. That's what's forbidden in them. Forbidden is almost everything. It shall be prohibited to carry out interventions in the natural zone which are contrary to the objective of protecting the zone, with the exception of the following measures. Here are the letters. (a) to (i) individual activities which are allowed - interventions against the spread of non-originating species, firefighting, removal of unnecessary buildings, regulation of the number states of cloven-hoofed game - this is please good because they are multiplied very significantly and are harmful to us in the territory of parks - ensuring the safety of visitors, maintenance of the basic road network, interventions to protect stocks of specially protected species, monitoring or research that does not change the natural environment, or maintenance of marked hiking or cycling routes. There's no forest protection measures. It doesn't say. And since Section 18a is one of those sections that cannot be made an exception, it is not on the list of sections where the nature protection authority has the opportunity to make an exception, so here in the first zone to protect the forest, no matter what, except fire, it is not possible. [[15.00 hours]] In the nature zone near is forbidden to perform interventions - again... [[Member Laudat speaks to the speaker off the microphone.]] In the nature zone near... I've already said that. In the centered care zone... Sorry, here - in the nature zone near... I have to point out here that the original text that was submitted to the Legislative Council of the Government - it is word-telling, but please, let me draw attention to that. In the nature zone near the original text was "no interventions performed'. The Government's Legislative Council "is forbidden to intervene" there. She's made it harder on her own. Okay, I still get it, it's those protected zones where people don't live, they don't manage, they can go there as tourists, so fine, so let's strangle them a little bit. But it was originally written in the Cultural Landscape Zone before the intervention of the Legislative Council: "In the Cultural Landscape Zone, measures or interventions that do not threaten the object of nature conservation may be implemented. " The Government's Legislative Council has put this on its head, in the complete negation of it. It says that even in the area of the cultural landscape, i.e. in the built-up areas of the communities where people live, where they have to live, where they have to raise their children, where they have to live normally culturally humanly, it is forbidden to implement measures or interventions that threaten the object of protecting the national park and meeting the objectives of nature conservation. Well, who decides it's a threat? Nature conservation authority. I have to say, the Sumava I speak for here, and frankly, the law we have here, there is no great trust in nature conservation authorities. And I repeat again: § 18a is not a paragraph that would allow for the granting of an exemption. Ladies and gentlemen, another such important paragraph, which I would like to mention and which has made significant changes to the Government's Legislative Council, is Section 20 of the National Park Council. This is an initiative and consultation body traditionally established by the Ministry, where the Minister appoints representatives of municipalities, all 22 municipalities from the national park, on whose cadastrals the park is located and spread out, representatives of the regions, but also business and scientific public. The council meets, it has its committee, and, even though it has been a rather severe clash, it has managed to achieve some reasonable outputs. Now, the proposal that arose from some previous discussion, as it came to the Legislative Council, contained in Paragraph 20 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 words that the nature conservation authority of the national park is obliged to agree with the board all important decisions, draft quiet areas, principles of care and others. Deal. We all know what it means to make a deal. In some way, we all know that if an agreement is to be reached, both must retreat, they must try to come up with a consensus. In the Government's Legislative Council, they cut the floor and replaced them with a word to discuss. Now the nature conservation authority is no longer obliged to negotiate, but to discuss. What does it mean to discuss? Whoever you have ever participated in any process of authorising anything with the nature protection authorities, with the Ministry, you know that they will be discussed, will invite relevant stakeholders to discuss it, where it will be discussed and the nature protection authority will decide what it wants. So a dramatic intervention in, say, the right of municipalities to self-manage their territory. The right of hunting, the woods - I'm not going to discuss this right now. These are the main, fundamental moments that the Government's Legislative Council has dramatically changed in this proposal. Here I have § 43, which just mentions the various exceptions, and there is no section 18a, not there. And then there's the last thing I'd like to mention in this part of my speech, and those are the cancellation clauses. Here the legislator proposes to abolish all legal standards and sub-law standards, which have so far been declared by the parks, i.e. both the government regulation by which the National Park of Šumava, Krkonoše, Podyjí was established, and the law by which the National Park of Bohemian Switzerland was established, and leaves it only on this law. And yet, when I return, as promised, to the beginning, this law does not declare any existing parks, only the new ones. If someone is such a fool and the national park still wants to announce - Křivoklátsko is unfortunately already going to do so - it will have to do so by amending this law. But the parks that already exist here today will have no title to be declared. No current legal title. You say well, they exist here, they have their administration, they have their territory, they have their maps. Okay, yes, but what if, in the future, the changes that are going to happen in that territory are so dramatic, so fatal, that our descendants are going to wonder who caused it, according to what title could have left the territory to their destiny, so it has gone, fossilized, as we see it today? He'll be looking for a legal title - he won't. That, too, I think, is a defect which I seriously accuse of this bill. That, ladies and gentlemen, was the exit from the Government Legislative Council. I remind you that what was agreed or which came out of the commentary inter-ministerial procedure was not acceptable either to the municipalities or to the regions. The legislative board has deflected it, and it has deflected the string far further to unacceptable. Now it's truly reprehensible. The Minister or his co-workers present a number of reasons for defending the law. They say what he will bring, what arguments they make for you to pass the law to start paying. It unites the rules for all national parks. It's not, it's not true. While all the other three parks will have as a basic territorial strategy and identification of the zoning, in Sumava, which is absolutely exceptional, which is absolutely special both by its size and by its history and current state, it will still have so called. sub-areas and, on the other hand, quiet areas. Sub-areas A, B, C and D1, which actually overlap the existing first zone, will be the management measures that actually determine the strictest category of territorial protection. According to the care plan, which is planned, which runs in parallel with this law, ministerial officials propose, in agreement with ecologists and scientists, that this protected area be within 52 percent of the territory of the national park. It responds to the current modern approach to nature conservation. Well, it's not like that, again. Our law, the amendment to the law defines the precise condition that we want to achieve, that is the desired wilderness in § 15 para. 4, and the world uses more proportional methods, rather looking for a way, looking for a connection with the region, with regional activities, perhaps the Bavarian Forest National Park is a national park that benefits its surroundings. It also has a one-third area than the Sumava National Park. I'm sorry, folks, I'm talking about Sumava. I said it at the beginning-- this is actually Lex Sumava, this is the law for Sumava, and the other parks are taking it. It explains legislation - it is not true again. The legislation would be clear if each national park had its own law. This law, in addition to the legally enshrined zoning, will still contain other identification elements, and I have already said sub-areas etc. It specifies the position of municipalities - yes, it states that it dramatically reduces the role of municipalities. Instead of the right to an agreement, municipalities have only an obligation to discuss. It opens a national park to gentle tourism - it's not true. Quiet areas are territories with limited movement of persons. [[15.10 hours]] It strengthens legal certainty. I have mentioned several times that legislative chaos is actually being created here. It sets long-term conservation objectives. Yes, it sets them, but so that it actually anchors the way to the wilderness, to an uninhibited extent of more than half the area of the national park. And I'm reminiscent of the paragraph. 4 § 18a - in the cultural landscape zone it is prohibited to implement measures or interventions that threaten the object of the national park and to fulfil the objectives of protecting the national park. That's just the statement of the opinion, the paradigm that the conservationists, the environmentalists, the environmental activists have. Unfortunately, representatives of the Ministry, nature conservation authorities, take it from them, that the best territory of the national park is a land without people, and human activity is acceptable there only if it is to help improve ecosystems, mowing and such things. It's changing the concept of resonation. Well, yes, three-stage is replaced by a five-stage, four-degree, plus a resting area. So in this concept, it is not possible for municipalities to be part of the national park. At the same time, the management zoning, those sub-zones are not declared by any legal or sub-legal means or measures of a general nature. They are declared by the nature conservation authority. The municipalities have a judicature, unfortunately they lost the court, which says that such management measures are justified by the nature conservation authority, i.e. the minister. The Minister will be able to decide such essential matters from his office. The Visiting Order, whose status the Ministry promises to improve, is actually demoted to worthless instruction. It only contains a list of what is forbidden in the park. It is to bring opening part of the first zones of gentle tourism. No, of course not, because the decree of the Ministry requires to set limits on the peaceful territories promised in our law by legislators, but unfortunately, there is no such decree so far. We don't know what quiet areas it's gonna be. At the same time, it is prohibited to carry out interventions in a natural zone which are contrary to the objective of protecting that zone. And again, there may be no exception. You can't enter outside marked paths because there's nothing like that in the law. It extends the role of municipalities in decision-making in the territory of the national park. The municipalities will have the status of the institution concerned. That's another thing, please. Of course, municipalities may have the status of the institution concerned pursuant to Section 136 of Act 500, i.e. the Administrative Code, but only at the stage of the preparation of measures of a general nature and only in the case of their self-governing territorial unit and thus the right to the territory of the municipality. However, there are no laws on the right to self-government other than the Constitution of the Czech Republic and the respective judicacies, which is not an amendment to the law on the conservation of nature and landscape. The Act introduces measures of a general nature as a new decisive instrument as an instrument by which these matters should be enforced. A measure of a general nature is an institution which has been in force since 2004, when Article 171, Article 172 and Article 172 of the Administrative Code were defined, and it is stipulated that any person whose rights, obligations or interests may be directly affected by a measure of a general nature may make written observations to the administrative authority or make oral observations to the public. The administrative authority shall deal with the comments as a basis for a measure of a general nature and shall deal with them in its reasoning. Here we can say, "Yes, that's good, isn't it? Any citizen who lives here could have comments on everything he doesn't like. But be careful. Here are not only citizens who live in that territory or their self-government, there are representatives of a large, influential environmental group who often want to make decisions, who often want to exercise their not self-governing, not electoral power and influence, and who can, of course, hinder any measure that could be positive for the park, for the territory, for the people, for the municipalities. Moreover, a measure of a general nature is not a good instrument. Here it should be recalled the caselaw of the Supreme Administrative Court, which clearly defined in its judgment No 1Ao 1/2005-98 the limits for the use of the Institute of General Measures. Here I have to quote: "The provision of a general nature cannot replace a sub-law standard or set new obligations beyond the law. They serve only to specify existing obligations arising from the law and not to impose new obligations which the law does not contain." So the judicature here is important for the characteristics of the instrument that the Ministry wants to use to enforce measures in national parks. What I said about changing the zone may be 15 years from now, I won't be coming back. One last thing here in my part of the show. There is an issue that is not readable at first sight, but it is an issue of accessibility of the territory of the national park, the issue of travel in the national park. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 7 that, pending the reservation of the designation of journeys in a quiet area pursuant to § 17 para. 2 of Act No. 114/1990 Coll., as effective as from the date of entry into force of this Act, the routes marked with the consent of the nature authority under Act No. 114/1992 Coll., as amended, effective before the date of the acquisition of this law, or the old law. Here it must be said that there is no clear concept of what it means to travel reserved with the consent of the nature protection authority, because what is precisely defined is a list of routes on which entry is prohibited. Negative definition, but there is no positive definition here, which means that the issue of land availability will continue to be problematic, in the hands of the nature conservation authority, the Ministry. I'm just reminding you, which one of you remembers the Senate Bill on the National Park of Šumava, so the definition of the travel network right there was contained in the law. I have other things to remind you of. I'm in the process of banning flow adjustments and streams and streams and tanks. This will not be allowed to be maintained in the most protected territory. If we looked at the map that mapped temperatures at the end of last summer, the area of Sumava was the darkest. That's where the temperature was highest, that's where the drought was most significant. It is not true that a dry tree consumes less water than a living tree, so it is better for water management. Perhaps even some government officials were able to spread this delusion. It's not like that. It's just that Sumava needs water management. Of course, such strict protective conditions leading to the wilderness thwart this process and make it impossible and the water economy will be very bad. Another reason. I just have to say, and I'm getting close enough to conclude my speech that I propose rejecting the government's bill amending Law No. 114/1992 Coll., on the conservation of nature and landscape, as amended, at first reading, I propose rejecting the amendment at first reading. [[15.20 hours]] And the justification, the previous, that is, my words, which I said, and the fact that basically the main measures of the law are unconstitutional. We here will be a measure of a general nature, by defining the rest zone, or by defining sub-zones within management, even by the official's decision to ban citizens from entering any territory. We well know that forbid is possible by law. Furthermore, the law precludes classical administrative proceedings. It refers to a measure of a general nature which, by its very nature, is an inappropriate instrument for this and therefore there is also a dispute with the Constitution which allows for corrective and reviewable decisions. So my motion to dismiss here, ladies and gentlemen, has been made. I beg his support. You may have thought, " What tragedy will occur if we reject the law? ' Does nature suddenly stop protecting itself? Won't anyone take care of her? Won't these people know how to take care of her? Of course it isn't. There is a law that has a valid wording that applies today. It normally allows you to proceed, to function in the conservation of nature, as it has been so far. Even national parks will not stop protecting the territory as their protectors imagine. As I said, Šumava, Krkonoše Mountains, Podyjí are established by government regulation and Czech Switzerland by law. If the government is committed to dealing with the situation in national parks in the congregation, it will not only listen to the Minister of the Environment, but it will allow other ministries to comment on the situation, the park situation will be in order and the parks will work not only for a few scientists, conservationists, but also for citizens living there on their territory, and especially for citizens who want to come and enjoy it. If I had to guess whether this proposal would pass, I don't know. I'm not a good better. But I also have to assume that the law will not - I mean, my proposal, sorry, my motion to dismiss will not be approved. In that case, I would like to put forward another proposal, and that is the proposal, if my motion to reject the law at first reading had not been approved, then I would like us to submit the vote to another proposal of my motion, which is the proposal to return the petitioner for revision. If this doesn't pass, and the law at first reading will be consecrated, and we will come to the process that we know well, which will somehow result in the designation of committees to deal with this proposal, so here is the guarantee committee, which is the Committee on the Environment, so of course. But I would like three other committees to deal with this proposal. I would like to propose here, and then, if necessary, repeat this when the vote comes, I suggest that this proposal be addressed by the Economic Committee, the Committee on Regional Development and Territorial Government, and finally by the Committee on Agriculture and also by the Committee... Yes, the Committee on Agricultural, Economic and Regional Development and Public Administration. Finally, my last proposal, if it were voted on by one way or another of these proposals, I cannot predict this, and then there would be a deadline for the negotiation of this law in committees, so I would like to come across that, if the situation had reached this point in time, then the law would need to study in detail again and look for ways to improve it and what amendments to put forward so as to be a functional tool for protecting nature, not a pun for environmental activists. And here I would suggest an extension of the deadline for 30 days, i.e. 90 days. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe I have discussed everything that I wanted to justify my proposals. The proposals were made here. I believe there's a justification. And I dare to make a request to support my proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u3	Thank you. Now, please, with Mr Laudát's priority right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u4	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, allow me to ask for a 30-minute break on behalf of TOP 09. Thank you for understanding. And please all Members of the TOP 09 to the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u5	Yes, yes. I will, of course, oblige you. I am therefore interrupting negotiations until 15.55 when we will proceed with this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 3:55 a.m. and we will continue our negotiations. Before we do so, allow me to load Mrs Lorencová's apology, which apologizes from today's day between 15.30 and 18 o'clock without giving any reason. At this point, we are at paragraph 65 and that is the government bill amending Law No. 114/1992 Coll., on Nature and Landscape Conservation, as amended. We are in a general debate. Now, please get to Mrs Nohavová's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u7	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, honourable members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, we have an amendment to Act No. 114/1992 Coll., on Nature and Landscape Conservation. There were also many reasons for this amendment. Unfortunately, the dispute over this law can be summed up in a brief question as to whether national parks need separate laws for their specifics, or whether it can be done by one general standard for all at a time. Each of you, over the last decade, has certainly heard most of the arguments for and against the problems surrounding the Šumava National Park, so that you could take your own picture. Not only from both sides of the barricade, but also from the material presented by the Ministry of the Environment, there are so many half-truths, misinformations and untruths that even I can remain indifferent and I have no choice but to engage in the discussion. I would therefore like to say a few words on this issue. As a Member of the South Bohemia Region, I will, of course, rely on my contribution mainly on the data from the Sumava National Park. I consider the amendment to the Law on the Protection of Landscape and Nature, as drawn up, to be the worst of all the bad choices that are offered. It is true that we need to amend the Environmental Protection Act in order to meet new trends, new threats and new scientific findings. It is true that we need to solve long-term problems conceptually in our individual national parks. But it is also a big mistake that this can best be done by one general law. Contradictive requirements, opinions and scientific findings for many years prevent the adoption of the National Park Act Šumava. It is therefore not possible to argue that this compliance can be achieved on a multiple scale by amending the entire roof law. In fact, agreements can only be reached in two ways on such a large scale. Either he would have to include in his text a detailed solution to individual national parks, or, on the contrary, let everything conflicting to deal with sub-legal standards, i.e. bypassing the obligation to rule fundamentally by law. Unfortunately, that's exactly what the novel does. Briefly, I would like to comment on some of the essential points of the material issued by the Ministry of the Environment to enforce this amendment. This material completely twists facts and confuses concepts. So the Ministry of the Environment claims that the amendment unites the rules for all national parks. It is an obvious non-truth, because while the National Park of Šumava will have the so-called basic territory. sub-areas, other national parks will have a legal settlement, with those sub-areas being management measures of nature conservation authorities. Furthermore, the Ministry of the Environment claims that the proposal is a response to the current modern approach to conservation of nature and territory in the world and is a response to ensuring the mission of national parks, including the sustainable development of the lives of local residents or the environmentally friendly tourism industry. Once again, this is not true, because the modern trend is the response to the real state of the protected area and its impact on regional needs. For this modern approach is e.g. The Bavarian Forest National Park is an important economic factor, as I was able to convince myself on the border of both parks, while the Šumava National Park is not that economic factor, because both current and, in particular, the proposed modification, regardless of the actual state of nature, sets a single goal, but only the wish of a narrow group of scientists and militant environmentalists, and that is - I quote: "All use of the national park must be subject to the conservation of its ecologically stable natural ecosystems...." It further states that the long-term objective of protecting the national park is to preserve or gradually restore natural ecosystems on the prevailing territory of the national park. So no sustainable resource, but basically a general ban on any human activity in the national park. What the appellants mean by the prevailing area where the wilderness is to be restored by their words can be illustrated on the proposal prepared by the so-called. sub-areas which are essentially identical to the current first zones and account for 52 percent of the area of the National Park of Šumava. This is therefore clearly a direct continuation of the efforts of Minister Bursík and his associated would-be environmentalists. [[16.00 hours]] The Ministry of the Environment claims that the administration will be reduced and legislation will be clarified. These claims are also false because the amendment favours so-called measures of a general nature. But these are more administratively demanding, so it is ridiculous to say that I will use more administratively demanding procedures, which will reduce the administration. Moreover, this procedure will, of course, radically extend the number of parties to all proceedings. While there are still parties to the proceedings of the municipality, the region and the owners of the plots concerned, it will be new to anyone who claims that their interests may be affected. And each of you will surely easily recall a number of obstructions or directly extortion cases, such as in the construction of Temelín, when someone claimed that his interests might be affected by him or her in order to give up his comments for a bold severance payment. Not to mention special-purpose lawsuits, chaining up trees and other actions. Similarly, this applies to legislative clarity. Who claims that one law will be more transparent when it has to be permanently supplemented by sub-legal standards, i.e. implementing decrees, and further amended and amended by the proposed measures of a general nature, so that it does not know anything about the establishment of legislation of the activities of the institutions, namely courts, whereas separate laws for individual national parks would contain everything relevant in one standard. The Ministry of the Environment further argues that it specifies and improves the position of municipalities in decision-making processes, that it opens national parks to gentle tourism, and even opens up parts of the first fair tourism zones. All these measures are partly a lie and partly nothing new. The position of the municipalities will be radically worse. While, according to today's regulation, it is necessary to agree with the municipalities, it will only be discussed newly. While the permit of nature conservation authorities, which do not like to issue it, is currently in favour of entering the first zones, the Ministry argues, contrary to the legislation in force, that the applicable law on nature protection prohibits entry into the first zones. The new nature conservation authority is supposed to allow entry into peaceful areas, the same thing that is currently, just a little bit of a mix of terminology, so it doesn't look that way in the eye. There is not a word about opening the first part of the green tourism zones in the draft law. First, according to the amendment, there is no first zone because it is a so-called natural zone, but mainly in quiet areas, which are intended to replace the current first zones in accordance with the decree and the law to regulate movement on the road. However, the decree does not exist and, above all, the law in the natural zone in Article 18 provides that it may authorise the decree in this zone, and any opening in this list is missing. So the decree that would allow it would be in direct violation of the law. And I could go on like this for a long time. Basically, nothing that the Ministry of the Environment claims in its material about the law, its benefits or its content will stand up to further examination and comparison. Given the scope of the amendment and the confusion in terminology, few people can orient themselves in this, and that's what the petitioner seems to be counting on. The bill is at least a legislative paskvil and an effort in this way to enforce many times the rejected effort to create from the Czech Republic, or at least part of it a museum and laboratory for a few extreme environmentalists. The amendment to the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act, as proposed, is completely wrong. It will make the situation worse in Šumava, and I therefore propose to return the amendment to the recast, together with the amendment, the Šumava National Park Act will be dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u8	Thank you, Mrs Nohavová. Good afternoon. I note, Madame, your proposal to refer back the motion for revision. Another duly signed up for the debate is Mr Karel Šidlo. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u9	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, we are once again getting to discuss legislation that is directly related to the Šumava National Park. The complexity of the problem lies mainly in whether it is right and necessary to discuss the existence of the National Park Sumava by a separate law or is already sufficiently anchored in the legislation of the Czech Republic. First of all, allow me to look at the existing legal regulation of the position of the National Park of Šumava. I think that even after years of adoption of the new legislation, it is necessary to ask ourselves whether the National Park of Sumava exists legally at all, whether there is a zoning of it, whether the legislation issued by the Šumava National Park Administration is legislation and whether the Šumava National Park Administration has been properly established. I used the legal analysis and opinions of JUDr lawyers for my argument. Miroslav Sylla, Mgr Jan Lego and JUDr. Petr Zahradník, who were presented at a seminar in the municipality of Modrava on 21 September last year. [[16.10 hours]] Let me repeat the widely known fact that Šumava National Park was established by Decree No. 168/1991 Coll. This Regulation was issued with reference to the then valid and effective § 8 para. 1 of Law No. 40/1956 Coll., on the state protection of nature, when national parks were set up by government regulations. The regulation came into force on 10 May 1991. Unfortunately, the Government's regulation was not issued until the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms became effective. Therefore, it can be concluded that Article 4 (2) (a) (ii) of the basic Regulation does not apply. 1 The Charter was already needed to establish a national park to apply the law, since the establishment of a national park is undoubtedly restricting fundamental rights and freedoms, such as freedom of movement, freedom of entrepreneurship. Thus, a decree of establishment was revisited in breach of the Charter, but according to the so-called Act. the Law of incorporation of the Charter had to be brought into conformity with the Charter no later than 31. 12. 1991, otherwise they will cease to be effective pursuant to § 6 para. 1 of the law of introduction. The Government Decree on the establishment of the Šumava National Park expired on 31 December 1991 according to the argument of the Supreme Administrative Court in the reasoning of the judgment, which I have at my disposal, is number 7Ao6/2010-55. This judgment was annulled by several national park administration regulations. The Supreme Administrative Court concluded that the Šumava National Park and the Šumava National Park Administration were set up in violation of the Charter and on 31. 12. 1991 the National Park of Šumava ceased for a period of five months until 1 June 1992 when the new Act No. 114/1992 Coll., legally exist. As of 1 June 1992, when today's Nature Conservation Act came into force, and pursuant to its provisions § 15 para. 3 national parks, their mission and more detailed protective conditions are declared by law. Thus, the national park was no longer there after a court of five months, and there was no legal standard to establish it. In other words, the Šumava National Park could not be revived, and neither could its government's establishment regulation. In other words, the feeble provision of § 90 para. 9 The Nature and Landscape Conservation Act could not establish a new existence of a national park. The legislator introduced the so-called "lawmaker" 23 years ago. the reservation of the law. For 23 years, it has been explicitly stipulated that national parks, their mission and their closer protective conditions are to be declared only by law. Even if we close our eyes to the history and constitutional indefensibility of Government Decree No. 163/1991 Sb., how are we to deal with the fact that for a long time the legislator has not accepted the proper declaration of the National Park of Šumava? Under the described condition then the legislator had enough time to declare the National Park of Šumava by law. It didn't happen. And not only that, the legislature rejected all the drafts of the National Park Act of Sumava. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic has refused eight times to establish the National Park of Šumava by law, as required by the law and constitutional order of the Czech Republic. And one more comment about the National Park Administration of Šumava. According to Section 3 of the Government Decree No. 163/1991 Coll. The National Park Administration of Šumava was established as a contribution organization using Section 31 of Act 576/1990 Coll., on the rules for the management of budgetary resources of the Czech Republic and the municipalities of the Czech Republic - budgetary rules of the Republic. Paragraph 3 of Decree No. 163/1991 Coll. was then repealed by Act No. 114/1992 Coll., on Nature and Landscape Conservation, specifically Section 92 (4). The administration of the Šumava National Park was then only mentioned in Act No. 114/1992 Coll., on the Protection of Landscape and Nature, and was only listed in its Annex. The administration of the Šumava National Park was not established by law as an administrative authority and was nevertheless attributed to it by the administrative authority. This condition was healed to some extent by the amendment of the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act, Act No. 381/2009 Sb., which was established by the Administration of the National Park of Šumava by the administrative authority. It is a matter of determining the scope of administrative acts. Of course, the local scope is based only on the reference to the government's establishment regulation. Therefore, the local scope of the Šumava National Park is no longer laid down by law, as required by Art. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 1 The Constitution under which administrative authorities and their powers may be established only by law. Here, with reference to what I have said, let me summarize: 1. At the time of the Government's decree on the establishment of the Šumava National Park, the National Park could only be established by law. 2. The decision of the Supreme Administrative Court expressly states that the conflict with the Charter has ceased to exist in the establishment regulation of the Park of Effectiveness 31. 12. 1991, having regard to the provisions of the Act of Accession on the Charter, in order to conflict with the Charter. [[for:]] 3. The National Park of Šumava could not be revived as a result of the provisions of § 90 para. 9 the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act, since it no longer existed at the time of its entry into force. 4. Parliament has expressly refused many times to establish the National Park of Sumava by law, as required by the constitutional order of the Czech Republic and explicitly the law on the conservation of nature and landscape. 5. The National Park Administration was established only as a contribution organisation and the nature of the administrative office was acquired thanks to the amendment of the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act 2009. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 The Constitution is not subject to its local jurisdiction by law. Now let me say a few words about the resonation in Šumava National Park. According to § 17 para. 1 of Law No. 114/1992 Coll., on the conservation of nature and landscape, national parks are usually divided into three nature conservation zones, with the fact that the more detailed characteristics and regime of zones are regulated by the generally binding legislation to which the national park is declared. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 § 17 then quote: "Definitions and changes of individual nature conservation zones are laid down by the Ministry of Environment by decree after consultation with the municipalities concerned. The first zone boundaries shall indicate the national park management in the field in an appropriate manner.' It can be noted that the zoning of the Šumava National Park was probably carried out only by a document entitled protocol published by the Ministry of the Environment. The Ministry of the Environment has not issued a decree within the meaning of § 17 para. 1 of Act 114/1992 Coll. The zoning of the Šumava National Park was therefore not carried out in accordance with the law. The Ministry of Environment's protocol, which is probably the only act implementing the zoning, is an invalid act. Protocol on the definition of conservation zones of the National Park of Šumava issued by the Ministry of the Environment under the number of the Oop/3885/95e.o. has not been published in the Collection of Laws. The nature of the protocol is not quite clear from a legal point of view. More specifically, it is not clear whether it is legislation or an individual administrative act. [[16.20 hours]] Allow me a brief summary. With the devastation of nature, Šumava National Park went hand in hand with the devastation of law. The national park was not established by law, the local scope of its administration was not established by law. The zoning was not announced, the park legislation was not legislation but measures of a general nature. I will now allow myself a few specific reservations on the amendment to Act No. 114/1992 Coll. under the House press 501. I consider the following decisive comments: Announcement of all four national parks by one universal law, which cannot affect the specifics of each of them. In Article 15 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions shall apply: 4 sets a new goal for all national parks - in most national parks ensuring the undisturbed course of natural events in their natural dynamics. Section 17 establishes an Institute of Peace Zones with restriction of entry, regardless of zoning. Paragraph 18 sets out a new breakdown of the national park - instead of three zones there will be four new zones. According to Article 18 (2) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the Annex V.Part 2.41 (d) 3 allows the nature conservation authority to exclude the exercise of hunting rights throughout the territory of the national park. Paragraph 22a (b) shall apply. 2 excludes, in the first and second zones, the provisions of the Forest Law concerning the protection of forests against harmful agents and the obligation to restore and reforestation forest crops. According to Section 20, important documents which have so far had to be agreed with the National Park Board can only be discussed with the Board, which is a very disbanding of the entire link to the functioning of the National Park Board. I believe that the rules for establishing a national park are intended to protect the territory as a whole - flora, fauna, but also, in particular, a person living permanently on its territory. Finally, allow me to make a motion to reject the amendment of the law under the House Press 501 at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u10	I thank Mr Šidl. I'm registering his motion to dismiss the bill. Now, with Mr Kučera's factual remark, registered in writing, and then a colleague. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u11	Thank you for the floor. To tell you the truth, I'm a little surprised by the direction of the debate. We discussed this amendment in detail both in the Committee on the Environment and in the Sub-Committee on Nature and Landscape Conservation and there was no argument from the KSČM in particular. So I do not know whether these are the speeches received from Mrs Konečná, who did not have the opportunity to express itself earlier, or whether there has been a change of opinion. I think that is a shame, because some of the things that are going on here could have been heard on a subcommittee or on a committee and could have been quite well explained at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u12	I thank Mr Kučer. Mr Václav Zemek, then Mr... Excuse me, Mr Josef Nekl, then Mr Šidlo. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u13	Thank you. Just really briefly. I listened carefully to my colleague Šidl and his interpretation. There were a number of serious arguments made in the past regarding the announcement or not of the Šumava National Park. I think that is one of the excellent arguments why we should adopt this amendment to correct the legal situation in order to improve it. So I thank him for actually telling us why to vote for it, too, and that's why we're letting the novel go to second reading today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u14	Thank you, Mr Zemek. Mr Josef Nekl, then Mr Josef Šidlo, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u15	Yes, thank you, Mr Vice-President. I would like to comment on Mr Kučera's speech through you. Colleague, we are not being directed by Mrs. Konečná. First of all, we have our own opinion. Secondly, if we have consulted the Member of the European Parliament Definitive, she supports the negotiation of this law. And thirdly, we are a highly democratic club, and in these professional laws, everyone votes according to their conscience and consciousness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u16	I thank Mr Nekl. Mr Karel Šidlo is now making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u17	Thank you for the floor. I would only dare to respond to my colleague Kučera. Yes, I introduced my performance from where I drew my arguments. I think that my meeting with individual representatives of municipalities and especially representatives of the current state of Šumava National Park is regular and I always have a lot of new knowledge. I think I consider what I said to be very technical in terms of law, although I am not a lawyer, but I used it deliberately to see the problem not only from the perspective of the amendment of the law, the complexity in that history, how we did not actually reach the law properly. A colleague of mine, Zemek, commented on my performance. I would like to draw his attention to the fact that I assumed that my performance would sound as I also presented it, in the sense that it is not about supporting the current amendment to the law as a universal law for setting up all national parks. I have argued very factually there several times and stressed that each national park deserves a separate law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u18	I thank Mr Šidl. That was his factual point and now duly registered Mr Jiří Junek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u19	Mr President, Minister, colleagues, colleagues, the proposed amendment to the law primarily concerns national parks, partly protected landscape areas. We are talking about one and a half percent of the area of the Czech Republic, which is what Mrs Nohavová said here, for example, that this law will make the Czech Republic a laboratory for a dangerous experiment, which is probably not the case. It is clear that a large and turbulent discussion can be expected, which we experienced a year ago when the proposal for the Šumava Act was discussed here. The biggest discussion is undoubtedly to be expected about the Šumava National Park and especially about the impact-free zones and their size. It is true that no interference is a barrier that divides society. For some it is an unacceptable experiment and gambling, for others it is a wilderness where it is possible to observe, for example, how nature responds to climate change, how it can deal with drought. However, from my point of view, it would probably be wrong to discuss only this one problem. On the contrary, it would be good to see the proposed law as a standard that, after long years of unifying the status of national parks, uniting their status and their care practices. It brings many and many positive changes, it has the ambition to make the wilderness more accessible to the public, to abolish certain restrictions in the municipalities or to abolish certain protective conditions in the built-up and stopable territory of the municipalities, thereby eliminating the need for exemption requests. The law will thus provide good protection for the free landscape against inappropriate development, but municipalities will be able to develop. However, I also see that there are some things in the proposed amendment that need to be discussed and then discussed in the committees. I would mention at least three of them. The first - § 22a para. 2 refers to the exemption for the implementation of preventive measures against forest fires in natural zones and in areas close to nature, without being precisely defined. So if I say this a little bit ad absurdum, it seems to me that theoretically, part of the forest could be cut off, stating that it was necessary as a preventive action against fire. The other thing that's not quite clear to me is actually some kind of transition period. I think it is necessary to resolve the transitional situation from the time the law comes into force for the time of the announcement of the zoning so that it is clear what will happen in this period until the current second zone is divided into a zone of nature close to and a zone of concentrated care for nature in the new zone. [[16.30 hours]] The third thing and I think, from my point of view, the most important thing is the expansion of natural zones. The proposal envisages that it is the so-called wilderness or the non-impact zone, namely, the natural zones are to extend to more than half of the area of the national park. Unfortunately, the law no longer contains an indication of when this condition is to be achieved. I personally see the greatest weakness of this law. I think if we look at the neighbors in the Bavarian Forest right now, if I'm not mistaken, they're supposed to say that the unattractiveness should be at 70 percent, that it's 30 years old, and that every year, they're kind of expanding the no-attack zone. The Minister said in his opening speech - I quote: I know what colleagues will say about this law. They will talk about the fact that the law does not bring stability to the Šumava National Park. I'm partial to those voices, too. It is already the Minister's statement that the current small area without intervention, which is around 23 percent in Šumava, wants to maintain for at least the next 15 years, so it seems destabilizing to me. I think it means another uncertainty, and it actually goes against the original intention of the lawmakers. This threatens the promise made by presenting this law to the public by making the wilderness available to the public. But if the size of those zones stays uninhibited in today's size, fragmentation, it won't actually be real. Because the wilderness just won't be big enough to let people get into it from the point of view of its real protection. So there are three of them, I would say, the biggest complaints or things that I think should still be discussed on the committees. But despite these complaints, the KDU-ČSL supports the release of this law or this amendment to second reading, and we hope that in the committees, these objections will somehow be discussed with me. Maybe there's something else I could say about what was said here by my previous speakers. My colleague, Mr Zahradník, certainly his speech was exhausting, I was more or less interested in the fact that he - I do not know if I should use the word - is infuriating in Section 16 what is not allowed in the national park, and he quoted that, among other things, the natural riverbed of watercourses must not be modified or removed from natural watercourses by sloping or other natural obstacles. In fact, he argued that nowadays droughts, etc. It's a thing that, if I understand correctly, will intensify the issue of the drought. I think it's exactly the opposite. We know what regulation did, watercourse modifications, that they don't hold the water in the landscape. On the contrary, I think this is exactly the kind of thing that can catch the water in the country in the national park. It is generally quite often argued that the non-impression zones result in, I don't know, drought in Sumava. In the summer we learned that it was their fault that one of the springs of the Vltava was dried up, etc. I think there are clear dates and clear facts. I have here one output from the Czech Geological Service and the Research Centre for Global Change of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic. They're based on long-term data on Sumava. Here I quote at least one thing from this conclusion, or from this analysis: In the case of annual drains from the Modrava stream between 1970 and 2012, however, there was no apparent break that would show that the death of the tree floor of the river basin somehow affected the flow. There were no changes between 1970 and 1991, 1992 and 2012 in the coagulation-flow coefficient, although the period 1992 to 2012, for example, contains extreme rainfall during the floods in 2002. - There's a lot more arguments there. I'm not gonna stall, I'm not gonna read them, but I think the argument about the forest being destroyed by bark, etc. will cause us to dry in Sumava or maybe even in the whole Czech Republic, they are wrong. So much for me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u20	I thank Mr Junek for his contribution to the debate. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mr Igor Jakubčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u21	Dear colleagues, the Minister said in his opening speech that the opponents of this law will try to enforce a separate bill on the National Park of Šumava. Personally, I don't think this matter is necessary. It is enough that this proposal, which has been submitted to us, is prepared in a good way and in line with the opinions of scientists and environmentalists as well as the community. It is true, and it has been said many times, or several times, that Šumava National Park is exceptional. Yes, it is exceptional both in its area, which is almost 2 percent of the territory of the Czech Republic, as well as by the fact that there are 22 municipalities in the Šumava National Park intravilán as the only national park. No other national park has municipalities on its territory. The National Park of Šumava does. This amendment should address a number of issues. Many arguments have been made here, I will repeat them, but I think that repetition is the mother of wisdom and that you will not be offended by hearing some things more than once, but I think it is good, because the things that are and are wrong in this bill should not really be there. And everyone should realize that. The amendment should address several things or several problematic parts. It should unify the rules for all national parks. Šumava National Park will have a strategy of sub-areas as a basic territory. The rest of the national parks will be zonated. Zones are governed by law, sub-areas are management measures of nature conservation authorities. So I already think it's going to be different national parks, not that the rules for all parks are united. The 1992 Law should be updated as a response to the current modern approach to the conservation of nature and territory that is in the world. It's not true. The nature conservation system in the world responds to the real state of the protected area and the impact of this territory on regional needs. The Bavarian Forest National Park is an important regional economic factor. The National Park of Sumava is not. The modern approach of the novel - I think modern in quotation marks - is that regardless of the real state of nature and landscape, the target state is set, which is the wish of a group of scientists and environmentalists, not the inhabitants who live there, not the municipalities. This amendment should reduce the administration. It's not true. The amendment favours a processically significantly more complex measure of a general nature. In combination with the amendment to the Act on Impact Assessment, there will be a clear increase in administration. It should specify national park legislation. Again, it's not true. The amendment envisages implementing decrees which do not yet exist and measures of a general nature which may be issued according to any need. There will clearly be an understatement of legislation, not to be clarified and to be simplified. The amendment should specify the position of municipalities in decision-making processes. This amendment states that it drastically reduces the position of municipalities. The amendment took the right of the municipalities to an agreement on strategic documents and this is replaced by a mere discussion. This means that all the municipalities that are in the territory of the national park become mere puppets and become only by being able to stand by without being able to intervene in any way or in any way. The amendment should address the opening of national parks to gentle tourism. The law in force prohibits entry into the first zones. But it's not true, because according to the law in force, the first zone enters with the consent of the nature conservation authorities. [[16.40 hours]] This rule will also apply in the novel near a quiet area. But this is immediately announced by this novel in the current first zone, so nothing new is being opened. Further, in any currently unspecified territory without specified rules, i.e. It can be declared in any zone. The rule is one thing - the nature conservation authority decides on the need for regulation without taking into account the needs of municipalities, the needs of the people living in the national park. It does not concern the national parks of others, it really concerns the National Park of Šumava. The amendment should change a lot of things. One of them is - it should set long-term objectives for the protection of the national park and the mission of the national park, including the sustainable development of the lives of local residents or the environmentally friendly tourism industry. That's not true. I quote the preamble to the amendments § 15 para. 2: Any use of national parks must be subject to the conservation of their ecologically stable natural ecosystems corresponding to the site and to the achievement of their natural biodiversity and shall comply with the objectives pursued by their publication. The objectives are set out in the following paragraph 3: The long-term objective of protecting national parks is the conservation or gradual restoration of natural ecosystems, including ensuring the undisturbed course of natural events in their natural dynamics on the prevailing territory of national parks and maintaining or gradually improving the status of ecosystems whose existence is conditional on the activity of man relevant to biodiversity in the remaining territory of national parks. Furthermore, I quote § 18a para. 4: In the cultural landscape zone, it is prohibited to implement measures or interventions that threaten the object of the protection of the national park and to fulfil the objectives of protecting the national park. - This can be regarded as pure fundamentalism. The aim is a national park without people in which human activity is allowed only when it is needed to improve the status of ecosystems, i.e. Weed mowing, sheep grazing maximum, event. cattle. That means yes, animals will be able to mow grass there, but people can't. The concept of resonation. The current three-stage resonation is replaced by a five-stage re-enactment with a special - I repeat a special - position has a quiet zone that can be declared anywhere. The specifics of the national park are that they are part of the territory of the national park, causing a long-term problem. And the provision of paragraph (d) in Section 18 deepens this contradiction even more significantly. In such a concept of law, it is impossible for municipalities to be part of the national park. I do not know how the 22 municipalities in the national park will function and how their existence will be preserved. It has already been pointed out by my colleagues that any territory which may not meet the criteria of the first zone may be included in the first zone. It's all about park management. Very strange. Please note that Šumava National Park is in the proposed plan for national park care of the existing basic territorial strategy, which is a three-stage zoning of nature protection and landscape replaced by seven-stage management zoning by sub-areas that can be divided into other sub-totals. Management zone shall not be declared either by decree or by measures of a general nature. This means that the current situation, which is not very satisfactory, but still somehow bearable, will be replaced by something I personally cannot imagine. I talked to the mayor of the village in Sumava, and they just aren't able to imagine how it's going to work either. And so far, no one's explained it to me. Newly, municipalities and stakeholders will only be able to enter the decision-making process through measures of a general nature. But that's not true. There is no new provision, it is nothing new. The measure of a general nature is addressed by Law No No. 500/2004 Sb. in Sections 171 to 184. Municipalities may only enter the preparation under Section 136 only if the matter concerns the right of a local authority to self-government. The right to self-government shall be enshrined in the Constitution in Article 100 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1, but it is only specified by the judicature, not by the amendment of the law. Measures of a general nature have been issued in the past, such as the National Park Sumava Visitor Regulations. So there's no new instrument here. The amendment should bring many new things to the tourist. Firstly, it should open the first zones of the national park of friendly tourism, but nowhere is it established. The current first zone becomes a peaceful area at the time of validity of this amendment. I quote § 17 para. 4 amendments: The border of the peaceful territory of the national park and information on the conditions of movement on the roads or routes in the quiet territory of the national park shall be indicated by the nature authority in the field in the manner specified - and beware - by the decree of the Ministry of Environment. But there is no decree yet. That means the law prejudices something that doesn't exist yet. Therefore, I am based on the provisions of Paragraph 18 (1) of the EC Treaty. 1. In the natural zone, any intervention which is contrary to the objective of protecting that zone shall be prohibited, with the exception of the following measures, where their implementation is necessary in order to protect the lives and health of persons, to protect property or to protect nature. But there is no opening of the first zones in the list of permitted measures. The fact that there is no first zone in the amendment does not exist, and it is a natural zone - I will not comment. This means, even in the text, there are certain shortcomings. For municipalities, the amendment should extend the role of decision-making on national parks. The municipalities should have the status of the institution concerned when approving measures of a general nature, in the process of approving the care plan, a proposal will be discussed with the municipalities, which has been passed through the commentary management of owners and the public. It is not true that municipalities would have the status of the institution concerned at the time of approval. The administration doesn't solve anything like that. The municipalities may have the status of the institution concerned pursuant to Section 136 of Law 524, the administrative order, only at the stage of preparation, and only if the matter concerns the local authority of the municipality. I've already talked about this. This process of discussing the care plan is based solely on the judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court, not the amendment of the law. It's just a guinea pig. There's still talk of a national park care plan in this novel, but it doesn't exist. These are the principles of care. For another, it should reduce and specify the number of prohibitions on the territory of the national park in built-up municipalities. Not to mention that I do not know the concept of an unbuilt village - a built-up municipality either - so the amendment in § 18a para. 4 states: In the Cultural Landscape Zone, it is prohibited to implement measures or interventions that threaten the object of national park protection and the fulfilment of national park protection objectives. In addition, Article 15 (1) (a) of the basic Regulation does not apply. 2 states: All use of national parks must be subject to the conservation of their ecologically stable natural ecosystems. - That means yes, I agree that this amendment is reducing, specifying the number of interventions in the national park territory, because what I have read now is a general ban. So it's absolutely true that the number of bans is decreasing. For municipalities, the mission of the national park should also be to allow new use of national parks for sustainable development. It is clear from previous comments that this is an absolute untruth in terms of the sustainable development of municipalities. Nature does, municipalities don't. For nature conservation, this amendment should provide an advantage in the long-term setting of conservation objectives on the territory of the national park by means of a newly defined zoning. It's not true in Sumava. The objectives are set here by the sub-areas and the zoning is only a secondary strategic instrument. This should bring about a reduction and simplification of administration. The fact is an increase in administration and an increase in the complexity of all processes and an increase in the burden of judicial authority, because what is going on and what is being prepared, and what is in this amendment of the law, so clearly means for the municipalities that most of the measures that will be declared by the national park will be hindered by the judicial process. For nature conservation, this amendment should bring about a change in the status of other legislation, the application of which in the territory of national parks was problematic. There's only one issue to consider here in Decree No. 64/2011, the plans for care. The amendment introduces the principles of care, but the amendment does not include an implementing decree specifying these principles. [[16.50 hours]] The other arguments I have here I think I do not need to read because it has already been said here and I am convinced that it will sound, including the things that will not be the main identifier and strategy of zoning and partial area in the national park. These sub-areas A, B, C, D, as has already been said, have the same regime with the existing first zone, but what is important, the Šumava National Park should have an acreage between 2016 and 2030, sorry, the first zone should have an area of 52 per cent of the national park territory. That means, at 52 percent, nothing should be done at all. From what I have said here, it follows that this proposal contains, in my opinion, fundamental errors and inaccuracies, and for these reasons, I join my previous speakers and propose that this proposal be rejected at first reading. I'm joining a fellow Zahradník. If this proposal is not accepted, I suggest that we return the petitioner to the recast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u22	I thank Mr Jakubčík. I'm registering his motion to return, possibly to refuse, if the application for repayment is not accepted. I have two factual points here. First, Mr Michal Kučera, then Mr Pavel Plzák. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u23	Thank you for your word. I would just like to say the following in response to my previous speaker. He has often tarried to see how people in Sumava cannot live, how hard their lives are there, how limited they are by nature conservation. It is indeed the fact that it is the National Park of Sumava. Indeed, the National Park of Sumava does not belong to the Sumava mayors. That's right. I think it is quite clear that, as the word "national" implies, there are really the interests of our entire republic, which means not only the partial interests of a few mayors, although of course I understand and understand their positions. Of course, she's the solution, they're offering. On the other hand, they are also rejected from their side. There is, of course, the possibility of removing the built-up areas of municipalities from the national park. I think, paradoxically, it's the mayors who don't want it in any way. This is a discussion that may take place in the form of amendments in committees somewhere, but I certainly do not think that this is a matter that should be torpedoed by this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u24	I thank Mr Kučer for his point of view. With another factual remark, Mr Pavel Plzák, followed by Mr Jan Zahradník. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u25	Thank you, Mr President. I really have a little comment about my colleague Jakubčík. I don't know if I overheard, but correct me if I'm wrong. He stated that Šumava National Park is the only park on whose territory there are some municipalities. I can't believe this. You said 22 municipalities. When you go to Pec pod Sněžkou, the board of the Krkonoše National Park starts right behind Horní Maršov and then you have Mala Úpa, Velká Úpu, Pec pod Sněžkou. Pec pod Sněžkou even has the status of the city. I don't know what it's like to go west, but I'm assuming that Mísečky, Špindlerům Mlýn - there's just a lot of village there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u26	Thank you, Mr Plzák. Another point of fact is made by Mr Jan zahradník. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u27	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Mr. Plzák, I beg you, I believe he's wrong. That's where the communities are taken out. It's different in Sumava. But perhaps I would turn to my colleague Kučera by your means, Mr Vice-President. So these are not the particular interests of several mayors, what we stand for here. I think the mayors are behind the citizens who live in the villages. That's one thing. Both regions on whose territory the park is situated have also expressed their support for the intention to reject this law. With what my colleague Kučera said as a national of the park - that is a difficult thing to do. It's just the method of finding out how to kind of view "national" isn't here. The truth is that those who advocate the wilderness are capable of significant external media expressions. The silent majority of people who look at it quite reasonably and wonder why the territory let his destiny, it doesn't show up so medially. I think there is no need to do a national park reference, but it is necessary to reject this law and prepare something that will be more acceptable for the territory, but also for the citizens who live on it, and for the citizens of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u28	I thank Mr Zahradník. Another duly registered member is Mr Václav Votava. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u29	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Let me also contribute with my piece to the mosaic of the talk on this subject. It is no coincidence that Members of the Pilsen Region, the South Bohemia Region, are mostly present here, and it is also not strange that they are conspiring in their own way regardless of their political affiliation, except maybe some exceptions. I was also a member of the Pilsen Region, a representative of the Pilsen Region, and, as you know, the Pilsen Region, together with the South Bohemia Region, also gave a legal initiative, he submitted his draft law on Šumava. We also had a Senate law here, which - even the Pilsner one with South Bohemia - did not pass then, fell under the table. I was performing then, too, so I'm not performing for the first time today. I think it's important for our voice to be heard here, too. I think Sumava really deserves to have her own law. Šumava is very specific unlike many other national parks, it has its specifics, so it is certainly appropriate to have its own law. People live there. They live in 22 municipalities that affect the Šumava National Park. Here came a reminder from my colleague Kučera, who I am quite sorry that it is only the particular interest of a few mayors. I think that my colleague Zahradník answered him very well because it is not the particular interest of several mayors. Those mayors defend the interests of their inhabitants, the people who live and want to live in the territory of the national park. I don't think we should leave a man behind. Yes, there are plants, plants, pets, but it's mostly a person who lives there. And that's what it's all about. My colleague Zahradník here I mean very precisely, as well as his colleague Jakubčík or others, so that I do not forget them, they broke the whole law more or less in relation to the Šumava National Park. I must say that, of course, I agree with the analysis of the law in particular in relation to the Šumava Park, and it is also the opinion of the Pilsen Region. I have them here at my disposal. They also summed up the position of the Pilsen Region, which also continues to do so, did not withdraw from its demands and from its position. Even if I'm a government MP, a coalition MP, I can't deny what I said here about the Šumava Park when we were discussing that special law. I have a problem with this law, I say it quite openly, although I am a government MP and it is a government law. I will not read the opinion of the Pilsen Region, because, as I say, my colleague Zahradník sums it up very precisely here and, among other things, it is included in the position. [[17,00 hours]] But I would like to read you just one such letter that I received from one mayor. He's the mayor of Kvilda, Mr. Vostradovský. Apparently, you got him in June, too, but I think it's quite good for the letter to be heard here. I also asked him today if I could present the letter here, and he agreed warmly. The letter is called About us without us, but also about you. So bubu quote, quote the full text of the letter. It's not that long, so I'm begging for indulgence. "The Šumava Park was established in 1991 by a resolution of the Government of the Czech Republic with the approval of the Sumava region, which has been waiting since then in accordance with the constitutional order for the publication and organisation of all important elements associated with the existence of the National Park by law. The Chamber of Deputies will soon discuss a government-approved bill amendment from the Ministry of Environment workshop on the conservation of nature and landscape, which concerns all national parks in our Republic, whether current or future. But the main reason is the Šumava National Park, which not only exceeds all the other Czech parks together and as a single park is situated in the territory of two regions, three districts and the administrative territory of five Šumava municipalities is completely incorporated into the national park. This is an important characteristic, which the amendment of the law not only does not address at all, but the Šumava municipalities, houses, hotels, guesthouses, but also churches, cemeteries and schools are subject to future forestation. If, for example, you visit the church of svatý Štěpán in Kvilda or you will go to the local cemetery, not only are you still in Šumava National Park, but also in the future forest, because according to this amendment, all use of national parks must be subject to natural ecosystems in which there is no place for humans. When we lost our fight for the specific Šumava Park Act, we tried to believe the promises of Minister Brabec to present a bill that would impress us with its quality. The Minister has not failed in this, and we are truly impressed. No clear and constant rules, no strengthening of the co-decision powers of the Šumava municipalities, no opening of Šumava to tourists. Such an environment may appeal to eco-activists, but in fact, Šumava will deepen the crisis of disorder, when each new minister or director will deal with the Sumava Park at his discretion. And that humans are part of nature? Who cares about politicians who decide people's futures? Does he care about the territory with an insignificant number of voters? If I were to compare it to the political and media interests of another group of people, then it's probably bad luck that we have the wrong skin color. It is often our municipalities that are modeled by our neighbors in Bavaria, but there the state takes self-government as a partner, even if none of the municipalities are part of the Bavarian Forest National Park. Even so, the local communities have the "right of veto" in discussing matters relating to them. We do not call for veto justice, but we call for respect for mutual agreements, conventions, decent negotiations and respect for the right to life and self-government where we are at home. These are the basic principles of a democratic society that simply does not apply in Sumava. So far, we have only been given unfulfilled promises, violations of mutual agreements, slanderous campaigns, and by means of an amendment to the law of total abolition of codecision on our own home. The absence of the law, especially the good law, results in an old dispute that has no parallel in our country, and artificial crustacean calamity on an area of more than 25,000 hectares, which has changed the traditional form of the Sumava landscape for decades, is proof of this. The evidence of waste is in our cadastral mainly the area of our national symbol, the sources of the Vltava. Dozens of former directors of Šumava Park, this is an endless change in concepts changing according to directors, ministers and political apparatuses, but not according to common sense. Minister Brabec has now made this situation not only worse by amending the law, but basically began the liquidation of traditional Šumava." Ladies and gentlemen, I was just quoting a letter from a mayor, the mayor who represents his people, to his residents in the territory of the National Park of Sumava. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u30	I thank Mr Votav for his contribution to the general debate. Another duly registered member is Mr Václav Zemek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u31	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to speak as briefly as possible, I will try to speak from the ground up, so it won't be that long. I'm not reading. I work in nature and landscape conservation, when I count it, for about 20 years. With Law No. 114/1992 Coll. I've been working this long, too, so I kind of already know his little nuances and things. The law has actually been here for a long time, which shows how good it was. However, there is a need for its amendment over time, and one of those things is the issue of national parks, when we approach different parks differently. And here I would disagree a little with my previous speakers, when many interesting arguments were made here, and there are people like Zahradník or Václav Votava who have been dealing with this issue for quite a long time, although we always disagree and we have different opinions about it, but they know the issue, they are engaged in it and they also see that there is actually a need for a change. I have a different opinion about whether a special law for specific parks or the general standard. In the past period, I was on the Constitutional Legal Committee, and there it taught me that it should simply go the way rather of simplification, which is not the way of special laws to every matter separately. Of course, every park is different and everyone has its specifics, but I think that the main legal standard, the general, the general law should be brief and should only define a certain space. And those detailed protective conditions or specific matters for the particular park should be part of the care plan, which, of course, is then discussed on the basis of some broader agreement with municipalities and various interest groups in the region. I was involved in the discussion of the last parliamentary term of the special law on Sumava, which was then to enforce the ambition of the Ministry of Environment. There were a lot of participants in those negotiations, there were all interest groups, municipalities, regions, civic associations, either from one side or the other, but unfortunately it showed me that 100% agreement is simply not possible. And unfortunately, it also showed the second thing, and I'm a little unhappy that the amendment here is a little more specifically related to Sumava, even if it concerns all national parks, but it's more or less simplistic to the one problem that only applies to the Sumava. And that was when it showed great distrust among the different parties. There I witnessed a word being said, that after every change in the sentence, there was a search for purpose or interest. Personally, I think that the truth is somewhere in the middle, even though I am more on that side, or rather in the interests of conservation of nature and landscape, which, of course, does not mean that I would want to tear down communities or that I would like to banish the citizens of Sumava somewhere in other cities or municipalities. However, I think it is the nature conservation that should take precedence in the national park. After all, even national parks are set up primarily to protect landscape and nature, not to develop tourism, even if tourism is related to it, I do not deny it. Of course, there are others, other interests. The fact that the village is in the national park brings not only the bonus that it is a national park brand, but of course also obligations and certain restrictions. But that's just the way it is. Let's just say, do we want the national parks or don't we want them? I was here thinking about discussing the original proposal on Sumava Park, and there each side said that the park wanted, even if each side had a different idea of what the park was supposed to look like. Of course, a representative of the municipality has another idea, for example. Someone from the civic association that deals with the conservation of nature and landscape. That's just the way it's gonna be, and it's never gonna be a 100% match. My opinion is that in this case - and my practice in public administration has taught me this - it should be the arbiter that actually stands over different parties, over municipalities, over regions, over civil associations and various interests that should just stand there. Because the national park is not a regional issue. It's a whole republic thing, it's a general interest. If I wanted to compare it, let's take for example. such a castle Karlštejn. We also see this as a legacy of the entire state. And Sumava or those parks are also an inheritance, albeit natural, it's a slightly different character, but we understand that it's just a thing that doesn't concern just the region. [[17.10 hours]] Of course, as I was saying, the different arguments, part of them I understand, part of me thinks was a little fabulous, a little mysterious. There are colleagues who have been dealing with this for a long time, some here have simply read only the papers that someone has prepared for them or did not understand it, there have been confusion, there have been various confusions such as that someone is confusing the law on conservation of nature and landscape and the law on environmental protection, so these are simply little things, or they are confusing the rest zones and the sound of the park, these are such details that they are obviously going to be solved during second reading. If anyone cares that zones are not called 1, 2, 3, 4, but they have a specific name, it is simply allowed to be changed by a simple amendment, that is nothing fundamental. There were also several references to the Bavarian Forest National Park. That's the example that the state said to itself: here I have the dominant role, here I'm just going to set the rules and follow my rules. And everyone's happy there today. Both municipalities and civil associations as well as state administration of nature protection and landscape atp. Of course, Bavarian park, unlike our parks, especially from the Šumava park, has the advantage that there is no village inside the national park and they are in the buffer zone, which is a certain advantage, but also our disadvantage, but again, the zoning here also offers the municipalities by being in the softer zone or completely removed, so it simply offers them space to exist at the national park. And I think that this adjustment that is being put forward is a significant step forward. From my point of view, it's a simplification. I'm just gonna encourage it to move on to second reading. Of course, there are small things that will be improved, we can debate in committees, there will be space, we can debate during second reading, but I think we should let it go. and I will vote in favour, and I ask you to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u32	Thank you, Mr Zemek. Another duly applied for is Mr Vilímec, but before that, Mr Igor Jakubčík. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u33	Thank you for the floor. I'm going to my foreman's. I do not know if any residents of the village Karlštejn have a problem with the fact that there is a castle Karlštejn, which is a national monument, but I know that the inhabitants of the Šumava municipalities have a problem with the fact that they are on the territory of the national park. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u34	I thank Mr Jakubčík. Mr Vladislav Vilímec is now duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u35	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I mostly disagree at that ideal level with Mr Votava, whether as a regional representative or as a Member. The only exception is the debate on Šumava National Park. Already as a regional representative since 2000, since the creation of the regions, I see that this is indeed a very serious topic, that simply pushing some protectionist measures at all costs against the will of the people living in or near that park can do nothing good. That is why the Pilsen Region has tried twice - there is always talk of only one attempt - twice tried to assert, virtually. twice submitted to the Chamber of Deputies its own bill on the National Park of Šumava. Then it was a Senate proposal, in the past period and a government proposal, never succeeded. And the proposals, whether they were regional ones, one of them was common, of course they had certain pitfalls, but their efforts, all those proposals that had been put forward so far, were guided by an effort to bring about legislation that would prevent any sudden changes in the management process in the event of an opinional fluctuations in the management of the park or simply an opinional fluctuations of individual ministers of the environment. I don't know how far, and I don't want to push these things, I don't know how much the Minister of the Environment has long been interested in the affairs of the Sumava National Park, I would say that not for that long, I respect that he is currently the Minister of the Environment and we know that those environmental ministers have changed quite often and that some environmental ministers, not all of them, but some came with such ambition to promote, virtually. To make the Sumava National Park, I know that this model is not only about the Šumava National Park, but also about the wilderness. I, like Mr Šidlo and some others, also attended a seminar held by the Pilsen Region in Modrava. Not only Members or Senators were present, but also other people were, of course, involved. I did not, except naturally, meet the director of the Šumava National Park with someone who would defend this bill. I haven't really met. I have a great advantage that I do not live directly in the Bohemian Forest National Park or in the Bohemian Forest, that I live in the Přerov Pass, and fortunately it is not even in the Šumava National Park or in the Bohemian Forest, but very often I go to Šumava, of course, I was born in Klatovy and I know that the vast majority not only of the mayors, but also of the people not only living in the National Park, but also of these districts is opposed to the fact that the Šumava National Park should become a kind of wilderness without any sense of living and working there. I also received many letters, I could read them, and not only from the mayors of the municipalities, but from people who have worked or worked for years and who live in the territory of the national park and who ask me as Members of the Chamber of Deputies, who live in the territory of the Pilsen Region, to support the rejection of this bill by my voice. For me, the biggest problem of this proposal is in the idea concept, in § 15, when the long-term goal of protecting national parks, including the Šumava National Park, is the preservation or gradual restoration of natural ecosystems, including ensuring the undisturbed course of natural events in their natural dynamics on the prevailing territory of national parks. I'm more of an economic person, but I'm sure we can agree that the prevailing area of the national park is more than 50 percent. I guess we can agree on that. Mr Zahradník, who certainly has much more insight into the issue than I have and has already studied some proposal for care plans, spoke of 52 percent here. That, I think, is the very basic problem of this proposal, with the fact that, in principle, the peaceful territories of the national park will be defined by the Ministry of the Environment by measures of a general nature, i.e. Minister, now Minister Brabec, two years from now, Mr. other Minister... [[Notes and laughter in the hall.]] I think so, we'll see in two years, I think I won't be wrong, so in those two years, maybe it'll be another minister so we don't have this debate, and it'll take a completely different view of the concept and the extent of peaceful territory. When I studied the bill even after I was at those seminars and I know the opinions of people who live in the national park or are frequent visitors to the national park, I consider this proposal to be almost the worst of all that has been made here, because its aim is to make most of the Šumava National Park so called. Pleasant territory, i.e. the wilderness. I therefore do not know to what extent it is possible to completely change the concept of this bill in second reading. In my opinion, this is an incorrigible matter. Therefore, without further reading any letters, I agree with those Members who have proposed the rejection of this bill. I also agree that if the rejection fails, it is necessary to at least try to get the proposal back to work. So I join these proposals, and I believe that the House will make a reasonable decision today, not for the benefit of the Šumava National Park and those other parks, but for the benefit of the people who live in that national park and who want to visit the national park. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u36	I thank Mr Vilímc. Another duly registered member is Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u37	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Let me start at the beginning or at the beginning of my speech somewhat lightly as a response to my previous speaker, Mr Votava, and other leftist politicians, who were talking about the letter About us without us, about the destruction of traditional Sumava. For a while I thought it would be about the Schwarzenberg family, eventually I learned it was about someone else. I have a simple suggestion. Now take me with a little exaggeration. If we want Sumava to be properly managed, please, let's give it back to the Schwarzenberg. [[Weak applause from the right.]] It would be a simple law, I suspect, of one paragraph, and we should be sure that the Sumava will actually be administered as we all want it to be. I do not believe, of course, that this law has passed here. However, let's keep an eye on him. And now, allow me to comment on the amendment to Act No. 114 on conservation of nature and landscape. To begin with, I would like to say that there has been a discussion here, I have heard a little bit of such taunting especially by my colleagues sitting next to us, that is, by the ODS, about how we have access like the TOP 09 to nature conservation. I have one very important thing to say here. Nature conservation is neither left nor right. Nature conservation is conservative. Conservative in the sense that we really want to preserve nature for our children, for future generations, at least as we know it today. This is our approach as a TOP 09 to nature conservation, and I think it's absolutely right. In this regard, we are applying to such green conservatism. This amendment of the law took place, I think, with very careful preparation. And now, of course, I'm talking about the House. I'm not talking about the Ministry of the Environment right now. However the law, or the reading was interrupted 7. The 10th of last year. I'm a little surprised that until today, then, a sequel to the House's program has come up. I'm going to accuse Minister Brabec of failing to enforce or speed up this hearing. Probably his colleagues have sharper elbows in particular. However, I would like to start by saying that we have discussed this law very carefully not only on the Committee on the Environment, but we have also met several times as a subcommittee on conservation of nature and landscape. We had four meetings. At the first meeting, we were generally informed by the officials of the Ministry of Environment about the intention of this amendment and it was sometime at the beginning of last year. Then we had a separate discussion with the individual parks, of course, in the presence of individual directors of national parks. Finally, at the fourth meeting, we discussed the paragrafo text. This means that preparation on the House's soil was very careful. Of course, what is the aim of the amendment has been said here several times. The fact that the amendment should open parks to gentle tourism, promote the role of municipalities in decision-making processes, simplify administration should unite protection conditions, establish peaceful territories. There is, of course, a new zoning for the management of the park and the concept of national park care and, of course, a simpler visitor's order. From the meeting in particular on the subcommittee, I have come to the impression that all four directors of the national parks agree with this law, they are in favour of this amendment, they are in favour of, of course, taking some comments, which I would rather consider to be partial in order for this law to be passed. Of course, the professional public is also taking part in this by scientists and conservationists. I would like to say that, of course, we have come across issues of such a partial nature that can be resolved in particular by amendments. I think that is certainly not why this law should be rejected. The reason for this rejection, of course, stems from a completely different side. The request for rejection stems from a kind of frustration. The frustration appeared here at a time when the Šumava law did not pass. We've been discussing the Sumava law here sometimes, I guess, a year ago. And then he was very supportive of President Miloš Zeman. And this separate law on Sumava has been rejected, which means it has not been approved by the Chamber of Deputies. Since then, there has been quite a lot of tension in this area, and the aspects of nature conservation in other national parks have been neglected. And as we have also heard from our discussion today, we are mainly talking about the National Park of Šumava. I would like to say a few basic things, and in particular that the national park is a territory which is not intended to deliver an economic result on it. That's a very important thing to me. National Park is a territory where you just don't manage. I'll take that from the point of view of national parks world-wide. Primarily, one does not use it to benefit economically. Man manages 98.5 percent of the territory in the Czech Republic. 98.5 percent of the territory is a territory where there are no national parks and which are used for farming. And it doesn't matter if there's grain growing, mineral mining, landfilling, or building highways. 98.5 percent. Of course, someone might like it, someone might not like it, but I'm saying that we can afford to keep it in a state that we don't. I think any educated and cultural society can afford it. Repeat, 1.5 percent of our state's territory. If we agree on this, there is a real and responsible debate about how much this territory is supposed to be visited by people, how to view it, how to see how nature is being restored there. The debate can then lead to how nature will be preserved. I am pleased and welcome that we are not going the way of the independent law on Sumava, but that we are dealing with everything by amendment of Act No. 114 about nature conservation. I would say that the amendment is, of course, very ambitious and, of course, it also raises relatively diverse responses. Unlike other national parks, there has been a 20-year debate on how to approach this territory in the Sumava National Park. There are two sides to the barricade. One says that it is an economic forest and that the others play only to protect nature, that wood rots there for several billions, that ancestors always lived there, the Schwarzenberg, and that now those current users would want this forest to continue to be economic. [[17.30 hours]] On the other hand, of course, there are conservationists who want some absolute closure of this nature and leave it free. And they have relatively sometimes unrealistic requirements for the percentage size of the first zones. I understand, of course, that it is not possible to lean either way. There's a compromise to be sought. This compromise will only be achieved by establishing firm rules. Of course, every side must retreat. Of course, the right solution will be such that neither side will be completely satisfied. That's the compromise. Of course, we can talk about whether the territory of the national park should be preferred for active tourism over the subject of nature conservation. Some might think it's stupid not to go into the woods because that's where they nest a grouse that's protected. Of course, I don't think so. I think that the last territory we are able to offer him in the Czech Republic is the territory of the national park. That's where the man should really step back. I don't think anybody's gonna mind if he can't enter that territory for six months and look at it for the next six months. There's been a lot of discussion about barking, barking sludge. I think we've already made it into a cycle where the forest itself begins to recover and begins to show that it was the right decision to let the forest be restored. Those images, if you've ever looked at them, are really very interesting. Look at these photos. Gravity is really starting to grow and a healthy forest is growing, not the monoculture planted decades ago. So the decision as it was was the right decision. Of course, the only arguments that sound against the fact that we don't like it or that we're not used to it and that maybe it doesn't look nice at the moment. However, nature, of course, perceives it in the position of tens or hundreds of years. I would like to conclude by saying that we have had a long discussion here, if we need a special law of the Šumava National Park, where there would be some strict conditions that no one can argue about. There would be no more dedicated opinions or ambiguous interpretations and decisions of the administration and subsequent courts. I believe that we will be able to set that up in this very novel. The TOP 09 and the starosta are leaning towards the opinion of many experts here. Among them I would name, for example, profesor Bedřich Moldan, one of the first environmental ministers, who has always argued that the legal regulation should take place in all national parks of the Czech Republic on the same principles and the same legal basis and should be addressed by a comprehensive amendment to Act No. 114 on conservation of nature and landscape. And I am just glad that the current Minister of the Environment, Minister Brabec, is on the way to my colleague from TOP 09 Mr. Bedřich Moldan and has just proceeded to the amendment of Act No. 114. I believe it will benefit both the conservation of nature and the landscape. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u38	I thank Mr Michal Kučer. We will continue the general debate. Mr. František Vácha has the floor now. Please, Mr. Ambassador. A colleague of the Zahradník will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There's been a lot of arguments here. I would like to stand up for scientists at the very beginning of my performance. Sometimes, in some performances, colleagues have been rubbing their noses a little bit. Scientists of nature, believe it, do no harm. They're really trying to get to know her and use her knowledge to protect her. They are raised to make an objective assessment of things, i.e. They don't care if anybody has an opinion about it. They're at least trying to find the truth as far as they can. Anyway, it's just for starters. I was looking forward to the amendment to Act No. 114 about nature conservation mainly because of the Sumava and because the situation in Sumava calms down. I am a member of the Sub-Committee on Nature and Landscape Conservation and we have expressed our position on the subcommittee several times to representatives of the Ministry of the Environment, with the fact that there are basically two groups of interest against each other today. Interested groups of citizens who live in Sumava - we heard a letter, we heard many speeches - and interest groups of conservationists who see their interests in Sumava in the conservation of nature. I expected the law to bring about a calming down and some consensus. Unfortunately, at this point, I am not entirely convinced that the version coming into the Chamber of Deputies would bring this consensus. As my colleague Kučera has already mentioned, consensus means that either both groups are satisfied or both groups are equally pissed at the petitioner. During the meeting on the subcommittee on conservation of nature and landscape, I felt that the group of conservationists was satisfied and that the mayors were mostly dissatisfied. I think it is also seen from the number of Members' contributions, who hold individual opinions, that there was more to those who fear that the pendulum was skewed on the one hand. That means we should be looking for consensus. The most painful or weakest points in this law that can be abused by one or the other group, the points where, if we approve this version of the law, I think there will continue to be conflicts, those are the points that are dealt with by sub-legal standards. We have also pointed out to the subcommittee that this is, in our view - and we have all agreed - the weakest point where we are taking advantage of measures of a general nature, when it will be decided by some bodies, whether it is the Ministry of the Environment or national park administration. Of course, these will always be under pressure from interest groups, and those interest groups will always argue with each other. In my opinion, most of these things should be enshrined in the law and should be written directly in the law. That means, the moment we pass this law, we're basically not gonna help each other at all in Sumava. There will still be two groups that will fight each other, push the administration, push the ministry, tie themselves to trees, block further negotiations. [[17.40 hours]] Of course, I am not in favour of rejecting this law anymore because it has been worked on and prepared by many colleagues, whom I respect and trust. However, the situation that is happening, and now I'm going to poke a little bit into the Minister of the Environment, I just feel like you've sold Sumava for not being criticized for breaking the mining limits. You're laughing, it's probably not the first time someone's told you, I'm sure you've got an answer ready, but it's a good thing it sounds right here. Of course, I am not in favour of rejecting this law at first reading, but I believe that in order to calm the situation it is necessary to intervene in some way in the law, and I think that to intervene very significantly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u40	I thank Mr František Vách. Mr Jan Zahradník, Mr Laudát, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u41	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. My colleagues and colleagues, I originally only wanted to respond with a factual reminder, but I would not consider the time of two minutes sufficient. About what Mr. Kučera said here. Sumava really is the reason. It is so without a problem in the National Park of Šumava, in a national park specific to its size or populatedness, there would be no reason to change the law 114, which, as it has said here, does its purpose quite well. I will comment once more or twice on what my colleague Kučera said. I liked how he said that the goal of all those who support the law, who are those enthusiasts for the wilderness in Sumava, is nature, to preserve it as we know it today. That's a serious matter. For only a few years, we are separated from the time that Sumava was an inconspicuous green field, an inconspicuous green forest mass on our border, and of course we want to keep such a Sumava. Today, however, 20 percent of Šumava is dry forest, which, as my colleague said, is not nice to the eyes of some people, they do not like it, but it is probably not good for the territory, as some indications suggest. Which one, Šumava? So which nature do we know today do we want to preserve? The colleague mentioned the professional public. There are also a number of experts who reject this law. I also have to quote that, according to my colleague Kučera, a man from Šumava should retreat. Say that, my colleague, through Mr President, to the people of Sumava who live and work there, that they should withdraw from here. It's an experiment, that's beyond doubt. This experiment began in the middle of time between the founding of the park and 2007. Then came the acceleration of this experiment, the catalyst in the chemical lab, and it was rigged by Kyrill. At that time, Minister Bursík decided not to clear fallen wood from the first zones and actually gave the basis for a new development of processes, which, if they were under some receiver in the laboratory, would probably be acceptable. But these processes take place in nature, which forms part of the Central European landscape where people live. This experiment is out of control and, as a result, 20 percent of Sumava is a dry forest. It's just that no one's ever claimed who the experimenter is, who the experimenter is. Minister Bursík said at the Senate hearing that he was taking responsibility. I've said it here before. Where is Minister Bursík and where is his responsibility? I would like to mention one more thing, and I would like to turn to this in my view from the point of view of the ideal establishment of the law to the key section 15 para. 3, which actually defines the purpose of nature conservation. Besides wanting to preserve, it also wants to gradually restore natural ecosystems. The ecosystem is the forest. We call it the forest ecosystem, we who don't have this education. It's a forest. What kind of forest do we want there? The one that originated there two or three years ago during the calamity? Or the forest that was there before Kyrill? Or the forest that the citizens of Czechoslovakia found there, when the first time after the fall of the Iron Curtain they could walk freely again to Sumava, when wires fell and they could walk there? The forest, which was because of the communist regime and because of the fact that it was actually a protected border zone, was preserved in some form. This forest? Or do we want the forest that was there, and the landscape that was there in the 19th century, in the 18th century, when a large number of indigenous German inhabitants lived there, lived there, and breathed into the region a huge material but also spiritual charge? Or do we want to restore the forest that was found by the first colonists, the first people to start walking through the massif? The Vítek z Prčice, who probably traveled through here on his travels between Austria and its property in southern Bohemia. Which of these forests do we want to rebuild? I don't think we know. When I always asked the representatives of the fundamental view that Sumava should be left to herself without intervention, what should be there, they would be glad that what will be there will be there. They want what's on their own, that's what they want. I know, it's nice, it's an experiment, but it's an experiment in part of the territory of the Czech Republic. I do not know to what extent this experiment is based in some spiritual system of our landscape. This is not a territory where, for centuries, thousands of years of civilization's development, people walked only sporadically, like those national parks in Canada, in the United States. In Sumava, I repeat, there were people living and farming there. I know that my request to you may not be answered, but again I ask you to support the rejection of the law, so that there may be a possibility to prepare a law that would indeed be a law for Sumava. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u42	I thank my colleague Zahradník. Before we proceed with proper registration, I have two factual points, Mr Junek and Mr Kučera. Mr Jiří Junek is now making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I've listened carefully to all the complaints against the law here. I've heard what's wrong with him, that he should be rejected and so on. I would like to challenge at least one of you: Tell me what you think Sumava should look like. Exactly what you would have imagined. I didn't hear it here. I've only heard complaints that are wrong, reject and so on, but I haven't heard a specific idea of what you think Sumava is supposed to look like. Now, in the speech of my fellow Zahradník, I heard that he wanted it to be a green monolith. I guess that's what we want, too. We said how we wanted to achieve this, without interference and so on. If you have a different opinion and think that the green monolith may exist because of the spruce monoculty, which, when attacked by the crust, must be eradicated, then I don't see the monolith. That's all I heard. But otherwise, I haven't heard anything about what you think Sumava should look like, how it should work. If you'd told me here, I'd be happy to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u44	I thank my colleague Junek for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr. Michal Kučera now. He's not checking in. We can continue with Mr František Laudát's speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u45	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Just a few notes. I didn't originally want to be in this discussion. More or less, I will return to my performance, which was here during the Senate initiative in the proposal on the Šumava National Park. I really will not understand with some of the protagonists, whose views have been heard here today. If it's a national park, there are rules. It's not about any ideology, it's about some overall anchoring to nature. That's where they're supposed to protect the processes. I find it absurd for someone to talk about experiments. If anyone's experimenting with nature, it's human. It is a question of whether it can be called the natural development of nature by experiment. Of course, nature itself experiments every second, that's logical. She has experimented for millions of years and will continue to experiment. As for the Members and Members who have ties to the Pilsen Region, unfortunately, from my point of view, you are showing exactly here that you have not understood that in relation to nature, that it is somehow a value that must be shared when not the whole world, the whole of Europe, so that our nation already shares it at least today. This means that it is not relevant to me, that no one is surprised, as has been said here, no wonder, I am from the Plzeň Region or I represent him. Interestingly, there have been references to citizens living in the Sumava National Park. Nobody's bothering them. It is a pity that the Ministry of the Environment or someone may not be more intensive in working with the citizens there to convince them of some solid campaign and cooperation to an even greater extent so that they actually take their view that they will live and live in a landscape that will gradually increase their value against the current state and that this can be very well lived. After all, the data that used to fall especially to Sumava during the previous discussions showed that there was actually a higher standard of living, virtually. level of pay other than in other regions of the Republic. So I think it's already showing up, and perhaps more intensive cooperation between the management of the national park and its inhabitants in this direction would be very useful. On the other hand, when you stand up for citizens and are concerned about their future, possibilities, I wonder how you will behave when there are various amendments to the rapid expropriation of transport structures, non-standard procedures, the right to own and manage your property in regions other than Sumava. So from this point of view, it may not be surprising that I do not agree with the argument being rejected, or even going back to some kind of overwork, because what sounds from the opponents here, and I am not saying that the law is completely good, but that is what the other readings are from, so that if the amendments are added or amended. However, what his opponents here want is for them to submit a law that will abolish the Šumava National Park and turn it into some protected territory of a lower category. But the ideas combined - to let it go freely, to end up like the Giant Mountains or other border mountains, it just doesn't work. And forget that nothing in nature returns to its previous state. Don't live in the past, look at the future, how Sumava can develop without human experiments. Believe that she will create greater values over the course of decades than they are now, perhaps even in the past. Of course, every nostalgia has its price, but drop it and try to look forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u46	I thank Mr František Laudát. In the debate, Mr Robin Böhnisch, not as rapporteur, but in a proper speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, candidates for the Merit Medal. I would like to partially summarize the general debate in substance now in the general debate, and then, as rapporteur, I would just like to sum up the mandatory figures that are expected of me as rapporteur. First of all, allow me to make a seemingly different remark. It has been said here several times and we have become accustomed to saying: I am a Member for the Hradec Králové Region, I am a Member for the Pilsen Region, I am a Member for the South Bohemia Region. No, we are Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic elected in which region and our role is the same, whether we arrive from Krkonoše to Šumava or from Šumava to Jeseníky. I want to go back to the substance of the law with this. To the substance of the amendment, which is intended to lay down rules for the existing four national parks in the Czech Republic, which are neither municipal nor regional, but are national. They're all unique. Unique is not only Šumava, unique are the Giant Mountains with alpinská tundra, unique is Podyjí, unique is Czech Switzerland and unique is of course Šumava. Yes, Sumava is specific. It is specific that seven municipalities are directly part of the national park and a total of 22 municipalities are affected by the national park one way or another. In the case of Giant Mountains, here I have to repair my precious colleague, in the case of Giant Mountains the villages are removed from the national park and are not part of it. I'll take a few notes on some of the performances. The first will be a colleague of the Zahradník. Right at the beginning, I'll give him the truth at least in part of his speech. I agree that the amendment that came from the Government Legislative Council does not mean by far an improvement in the proposal. In particular, I am thinking, for example, of Section 20, where the terms "negotiated" and "negotiated" have changed. It is one of the few really serious accusations of the Krkonoše communities, the mayors of Krkonoše to the current amendment of the law. I agree that it is necessary to maintain the term 'negotiated' in the final form of the law, as we will approve it, because we cannot afford to cut off the municipalities from deciding, for example, the zoning. And I believe that this will be one of the easiest acts in the Committee on the Environment that we will do, which amendment we will propose. Several times, there was a threat of fifty or more percent of the area without intervention in national parks. Of course, it didn't sound like it was a really, really long-term plan for what our national parks should look like. It could be 50 years from now, and it could be 100 years from now. I'm sure it won't be in ten or 20 years. After all, at the request of the Šumava municipalities, we have a 15-year moratorium on changes in zoning of individual national parks. The paradox is that in the last letters from Šumava, their own request for a 15-year moratorium becomes a problem. Trouble in the Giant Mountains. The local mayors told me we don't need a 15-year moratorium on zoning in the Krkonoše National Park. If nature evolves in any way, it will need to change the ionization. There's no reason to block such a change by a 15-year-old moratorium. If we agree that the new text will be such that the 15-year moratorium applies in case the parties do not agree otherwise, then we can definitely leave the 15-year moratorium there. An interesting remark was made by fellow Member Vilímec. He was talking about an idea concept. And yes, the idea, the philosophy of nature conservation, our own philosophy of nature conservation, each of us, was blamed as a red thread by most opponents of this novel. Yes, someone just has an idea of cultivated nature. Some have an idea of wild nature, in the case of the Sumava of Europe's wild heart. It's a matter of individual settings, and I don't have the slightest problem with that. Only then, let us not demonstrate our philosophical view of nature conservation with often senseless or false arguments. [[18.00 hours]] The most talk here was about Sumava National Park. To have your logic. Indeed, it has been a subject of disputes and various interests for years. It's not two groups, as my colleague Vácha said. Let us not say that there is interest in the people of Sumava as some single entity and the interest of some scientists. Even in Sumava there are a number of people who agree with philosophy as set up in the new law. For example, I can talk about the Sumava Association home. In the last few weeks, I've received about five letters from the opponents of this novel. It was interesting just to look at the address of the sender. In one case, it said Sumava. The sender is Sumava. It's not. Then there was just a letter signed by a few people who tend to speak for a kind of majority that they can't define. On the other hand, I must say that of the five letters, not all of them represented an avalanche of empty phrases, even if there were such. There have also been very rational proposals for amendments if the law goes to second reading. And believe that the Committee on the Environment will deal intensively with these proposals that have come up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u48	I'm gonna cut you off for a second, Mr. Colleague. I'll ask the House for peace. I think we can now allow the conclusion of the debate in a dignified environment. If you have a different discussion, please, in the foyer, left to right and right to left. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u49	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, but I am subjectively satisfied. I've had much more passionate discussions in the hall. Back to Sumava. I'm lucky or unlucky to be able to watch the debate for a very long time. On the one hand, representatives of some Šumava municipalities, on the other hand, part of the population, part of the scientific community, non-profit organisations remain. The discussion develops very interestingly depending on how the Šumava nature develops. We can agree that there definitely existed and there is a group that the National Park of Šumava never wanted. And those people didn't disappear. Of course, they exist and either say openly "we do not want to go to Šumava National Park" or they find a whole range of arguments and their wish to cancel the national park can only be read between the lines. At the beginning of the most passionate debate about the Šumava National Park, the threat of barking calamity and its consequences stood. There was talk of the dead Sumava, there were talk of billions for trees rotting in the growths left behind by spontaneous development. The price was different every time. Once it was hundreds of millions, once it was billions, and yet the price can be calculated entirely into a penny. The price of wood is zero, because the wood was, of course, written off a long time ago. There have been opinions that someone goes out at night to plant little trees on rotten tribes and so wants to confuse the public, to pretend that nature is restoring itself and quickly. These arguments are no longer mentioned today because it turns out that the work of nature is unbelievable and the restoration of Sumava is going much faster than anyone expected. It's exactly a lesson to see better once than a hundred times. All you have to do is check it out. That's how new problems emerged, new arguments. The conservation of nature in Sumava causes the drying of Sumava and the loss of water. Last year it turned out in materials issued by PR agencies that the spring of Šumava had dried up. It didn't dry, ladies and gentlemen! You won't believe it, I don't want to spoil your romantic fantasies about nature, but the rivers don't start in the wells. The rivers start in the swamps, in the marshes, and if we want to show the tourists some spring of the river, we'll just put the water in the well with a pipe. And the pipes are clogging up somewhere. So this is how the spring representing the Vltava spring in Sumava dried up. So even that argument didn't hold up. Another was that conservation of nature in Šumava robs people of work there. Unemployment in Šumava villages is far below the average of the Czech Republic. Another argument - the Šumava communities are poor. Šumava municipalities are twice as rich in income per capita as the average of the South Bohemia and the Pilsen Region. So here's a new argument - the argument that we are collecting the authorities' last powers. We've heard a completely absurd Filipika about the fact that the national park doesn't really exist. One legal opinion, which I presume would have been clearly refuted by the Government Legislative Council and other lawyers over the past few years. Ladies and gentlemen, that is all for now. I, as rapporteur, will sum up the general debate in technical terms. I'd like to thank all the performers. Indeed, most, even negative opinions, have great value and will serve as a basis for further discussion in second reading. I would ask all of you, even directly, to release the bill for second reading and set up a Committee on the Environment by a guarantee committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u50	I thank Mr Böhnisch. We have one point of fact and an application from the President of the ODS Club. And I'm asking the Minister whether he wants in the final word or in the debate. In the final word. Before the factual point is made, I shall state the apology received, Mrs Langšádlová from 19 to 21 o'clock, Mrs Holeček from 18 to 23 o'clock to the end and Mr Ivan Pilný from 18 o'clock for working reasons until the end of the day. And a colleague, Mr. Skalicky, from 19 to 21 o'clock. Mr Karel Šidl's point of view. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u51	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, I will be very brief. I listened carefully to the discussion. I understand that our proposal for rejection will probably not pass at first reading, but a number of comments have been made, and this amendment of the law will certainly need more time to be properly discussed in the committees, so I would like to propose that the time for committee discussions be extended by 20 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u52	I thank Mr Karel Šidl. Now Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u53	Well, I wouldn't give up, trying to dismiss this law, but that vote could be close. Unfortunately, as I announced some hours ago, there is a permanent GIBS inspection committee meeting at the moment, and I also want to allow our representatives to take part in the vote on this proposal, so I request a 30-minute recess at the club meeting. I hope that by then the GIBS commission will be over. If not, I'll ask for another break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u54	Okay, thank you. I'll round it up and meet you for 18.40 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, we will continue after a break for a meeting of the ODS Club, or to allow the members of the Permanent Commission to take part in the vote. We are at the point where we have exhausted our applications for the debate, and I ask before I close the debate, if anyone else is joining the general debate on the proposed law. If this is not the case, I am ending the debate and we are before the final word. The Minister is interested in the final word, the rapporteur also announced that he will have the final word. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u56	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if I wanted to be related, I would say that it was a bit of a Šumava chainsaw massacre. But I'm not, and I know it was very correct, even if some of those statements -- but she's already been discussed and argued before me, I wouldn't want to go back to them. I would just like to make a few comments in that final word, so I don't repeat the arguments that have already been made here, and the concept of it a little untraditional. I hope I have the right public resources, but I have been given such a special reference to an interview with Mr. Mayor Schubert of Modrava in 2008, where he said - allegedly, I have no reason to doubt it, allegedly it was for some press interview: I am not in favour of creating a special law only for the Šumava park. When there are four parks in the Czech Republic, there should have been one law for all. It's obvious that the dialectic works, and you can change your mind, and I think it's normal. But I just want to say it, and you've already proved it here, too, how this matter is developing in connection with how the conditions in Sumava change. Another point is towards the municipalities, because the Šumava is specific. It is specific that it has municipalities in its territory, and it is also specific by having some very specific mayors. I even suspect a little bit that some of these mayors don't really want to agree that they live in a certain belief that "till I'm in a dispute while I'm in opposition, it's actually a good thing, because I always have a chance to get back to you somewhere. But if I make a deal, the possibility is over." Well, I don't think that's true, but I don't want to take it away from anyone. Because you know that Sumava. Many of the Šumavák who spoke here today, you know her better than I do. But I'm very often in the Sumava. I spend almost every weekend there at my favorite Mountain Kvilda, but I've got a lot of time here. I have to say, just because you know her - do you feel like living there is bad? Do you feel that these communities have no chance of development? At the pine Lada? On the Modrava? In other villages? It's just where projects grow, where I don't think for a lot of people it's the Sumava that maybe a part of people would go for. I think that Sumava should not be like Lipno nad Vltavou, although it also attracts of course its circle of clients who like to go there who want a water park who want slopes. But then there are also other people going to the Sumava, and a total of two million are going there every year, who are going there just so that they may not meet anyone in that day. Because like us, we like to meet like this in the House, then when we're free, we just want to have peace and never meet anyone again. I've told the mayors of the Sumava communities repeatedly - they don't believe me, I'm sorry, but if we have a chance, I'll do it if the Sumava mayors feel they don't like it in the park, so in the new resonation, the renegotiation of the zoning will be an opportunity for them to leave the Šumava National Park with their built-up territory. It would seem a shame to me, but it certainly is not an objective, and I agree with that, it is not the aim of keeping in that national park the municipalities that do not want to be there. We offer these municipalities a variety of interesting grant options. Municipalities in national parks, in CHKO have the opportunity to draw special grant money from various projects. I have to say, maybe Sumava's using these projects at least. In other national parks, there are really no municipalities in the park, and it really is the reason why these conflicts are constantly created here. And I don't like conflict. I'm not afraid of them when they're necessary, but I think if they're not necessary, why look for them. So if there is a possibility, I'm going to re-pronounce here, I'm sure there will be a chance to discuss which of the mayors will be interested in staying in the Sumava National Park and using the brand - because I think marketing is an excellent brand, and I'm sorry that the mayors see it unilaterally. When we talk to them about investment plans - we were now opening two large visitor centers in Sumava in the autumn of last year, on deer, on wolves. Those visitor centers, especially the wolfhouse, came in during the first weekend after the opening of 12,000 people. The village benefits from this, of course, because there is the possibility of accommodation, catering, etc. This means that when we talk to the municipalities about their investment intentions, about how to support them, they are very helpful, but then, as soon as it's convenient, they turn around and say, "We don't really want anything to do with the Sumava Park." Šumava National Park is one of the largest employers in the area and one of the largest investors in the area, which invests hundreds of millions of crowns a year, and is an infrastructure that serves just for the two million people. And when you get there in the summer and winter, it's crowded in the Sumava. On bike paths, on hiking trails, in hotels, in restaurants. I don't feel like it's a wooded, destroyed territory. That's not what I'm thinking. And I always say to my colleagues, "Go to the Šluknovský Probe, go to other areas." There are poor communities. But you're not a poor village. And when you go to the Bavarian Forest, which some take for an example, you hardly know the difference between the Blue and the Bavarian communities, at least the appearance. And when we talk about the percentage without intervention, when it's convenient, we take the Bavarian national park as an example, so they're really going to 75 percent without intervention today. It's 22-23 percent in Sumava today. And I really said and I hold it because the municipalities wanted stability and they said, "Hey, when Brabec is here, you say something when Brabec isn't here, someone else or another park director, he's gonna take his terms again." That's why we put a moratorium there for 15 years to, regardless of Brabec or another bird, who will be head of the Ministry, or Hubený or Tlustý or someone else who will be at the head of the park, there was just a moratorium. And we watched nature and watched what was going to happen. Because, folks, I'm being very serious about this, and you, as experts of the Sumava, can confirm it to me, the Sumava is actually drying out. But it's not drying out because of the law. And it's not drying out because of Kyrill. He's drying out because there's no snow. Now, thank God and pay for nature, that snow is there, hopefully it will melt for a long time, subsidize our underground springs, subsidize us with gold. But this Sumava really, like the Czech Republic, is drying up and we will face the situation, and not only in Sumava, but in the whole Czech Republic, where things can happen in an unprecedented way, where we can really dry thousands of hectares of spruce monocultures and we will only have very limited opportunities to do something about it. [[18.50 hours]] That's something, 'cause we're not really gonna get the wind, the rain that's gonna go through everything. And it will go through any legislation. That's why I said, and I'm holding it, and I'm going to hold it, that we're ready to discuss any improvements, any reasonable opinion that, for example, will help from the point of view of the water regime in Sumava. We are now intensively stopping the melioration of the gold that has been carried out over the past decades to keep the water there. I'm claiming that within the so-called. large EIA we will also try to restore some navigator tanks, so-called. Clowns that were historically there. And we're gonna do a whole bunch of other things so that Sumava doesn't dry out. But I still don't think this amendment deserves to be rejected. Over a year, tens and perhaps hundreds of smart people have been working on this novel, and it certainly wasn't just environmental activists or scientists. The amendment has a number of things in it that municipalities and regions have long wanted. Yes, who wants to beat the dog, always finds the stick, the Sumava stick. So you can take each paragraph from another side and dissect it and wonder if this legal interpretation can make it sound different. But that again means we don't trust each other. I'm sorry about the place, and it sounded like there's a long-term mistrust. And my colleague, zahradník, is very right that Kyrill was the accelerator of the trial. If we were talking today about Sumava being basically wild, or the wilderness area is Boubín, he wouldn't have bothered anyone. It's the so-called problem. dry forest. He's not a dry forest, they're dry grown trees and under them are already growing millions of little trees. And I've said it repeatedly, I'm a passionate mushroom man, and I like the green forest, too. But that's why I know that the idea of 50% without intervention that some environmental organizations really want in the very near future, so I'm saying that she's not possible. No way. And if we're talking about the prevailing area of the national park in the regime where the natural processes of their development are left to us, we're talking - he said it here Robin Böhnisch - maybe we're talking about 50 or 100 years. So far, it's just 22, 23, there's going to be a moratorium, and our followers are going back to that idea sometime in 2035. They'll see what climate change will do. They will see how nature will help itself in unstressed territories, and they will certainly decide wisely how to move on with Sumava. We really don't want to be engineers or social engineers or natural engineers. And it's not an experiment. It's not an experiment in our concept. Believe me, I wouldn't dare. I would never dare. That's why I wanted to give it to the 15-year moratorium. I would like to conclude by saying, dear colleagues, that this is not a law for the National Park of Šumava. It's really a law for all national parks. We believe that those interests can be combined there. We are completely open to other community debates so that people live there well and that people really tell each other whether they want to be in the park or not, what it brings them and what it takes to make them decide freely. And again, I want to say that the amendment doesn't deserve to be rejected. We are absolutely prepared in a very open debate in the second reading of committees, we are ready to hold expert seminars and consider any reasonable proposal. Please give this novel a chance to live on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u57	Thanks for the final word to the Minister of the Environment, Richard Brabco. Before the rapporteur's final speech, I quote the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Jan Sedláček apologizes for family reasons after the 19th hour and Minister Marian Jurečka from 20 hours for ministerial reasons. Mr rapporteur, you have a chance to make a final decision. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u58	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Now, really, only the most necessary intelligence duties. I would say that 12 Members, including myself, have spoken in the general debate. A colleague got off twice. A total of seven factual points were made. A number of times a motion to reject the amendment at first reading was made, several times a motion to return the petitioner. As regards the proposal for an assignment to the Committee, then the Committee on the Environment, the Economic Committee, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and the Committee on Agriculture was discussed. Mr Šidlo proposed an extension of the deadline by 20 days, and Mr Zahradník proposed an extension of the deadline for committee discussions by 30 days. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u59	Thank you. We can therefore take a decision on the proposals that have been submitted. I'm just gonna repeat them because... Yes, Mr. Chairman Stanjura yet. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u60	I don't think we can proceed to the vote. Even though the end of the Commission's negotiations has been announced. Colleagues can't be here, so I'm asking for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u61	Okay. Before I call a break, I'll... I'll do it again for my colleagues. So 19.05.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u62	Dear fellow Members of the Government, we will continue. The break has passed, the members of the Permanent Commission are here, and we can therefore decide on individual proposals. I'll take the liberty of checking you all out, and I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards before we decide on individual designs. Since the application for repayment was a conditional proposal, under the Rules of Procedure Act, we will not vote on it as a first but as a second. So first, we will vote on the motion to dismiss. If it fails, we will vote on the proposal to return the proposal to the Government for completion. He's fallen more than once. If not one proposal passes, we will vote on the commandments of the committees for discussion. Next, we will vote on time limits. I have one confusion, because the Minister has not said anything about it. Mr Zahradník's proposal for an extension of 30 days has fallen. I'm asking if it's the government's approval. [[The Minister disagrees.]] So it will be impossible to vote. It will therefore only be possible to vote on Mr Karel Šidl's proposal for an extension of 20 days, because the applicant's consent is not needed for this. We are clear on the proposals for the vote. No one is questioning the procedure I have put forward. The rapporteur will be watching me. In the first vote, we will vote on the rejection of the proposed proposal, in the voting order number 51 that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 51 of the 154 Members present for 20, against 79. The motion was not accepted. We will now vote on the proposal to return the proposal to the Government for completion. I've started the vote on order number 52 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 52 from 154 for 31 Members present, against 78. Nor has this proposal been adopted. So we will continue with the proposal for the commandment. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone else have a proposal for a guarantee committee? It's not like that. We will decide in the vote the order number 53, which I have begun, and I ask who is for the commandment of the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 53 of 155 present for 152, against 1. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been directed to the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. During the debate, proposals - please, rapporteur - fell on the Economic Committee, on the Committee on Regional Development, on the Committee on Agriculture. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the commandment to these three committees. First, the commandment to the Economic Committee. I have launched the 54 series vote, and I am asking who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 54 of 155 present for 41 Member, against 75. The motion was not accepted. The next vote will be the vote on the commandment of the Committee on Regional Development. I've started the 55 series vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 55 of 155 present for 135, against 5. The motion was accepted. The third proposal is the commandment of the Committee to the agricultural sector. I have begun voting order number 56 and I ask who is in favour of the commandment to the agricultural committee. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 56 from 155 present for 70, against 31. The motion was not accepted. In this case, as the next committee, we have ordered the proposal to be discussed by the Committee on Regional Development. We will now vote on extending the deadline by 20 days in the 57 order vote that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 57 of 155 present for 147, against 1. The motion was accepted. I note that the proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee, as well as by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a further committee, and the period for discussion has been extended to 80 days. Thank you, Minister of the Environment, thank you to the rapporteur. I'm ending item number 65 and handing over the meeting's proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-20-ps2013-039-02-006-065.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, have a nice evening. We will continue to discuss the points as we have approved. I'm opening another point in today's program, and that's
