ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-001-149.u1	149. The Senate Bill amending Act No. 234/2014 Coll., on Civil Service, as amended /German press 798/ - first reading With priority, I shall ask Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-001-149.u2	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I've only had a short time. Consider, colleagues, what points you have approved of the programme. And I am very sorry that the matter of dealing with the people of Podkarpatsky Russians is constantly being pushed away. It's a disgrace to this House, I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-001-149.u3	Thank you. Now back to the point. We received the Government's position as House Press 798/1. The motion submitted will be presented by Senator Miroslav Nenutil, whom I welcome among us. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-001-149.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Member, honourable Members, as has been said here, we will be talking for a moment about the amendment to the Civil Service Act. [[There's noise in the hall. Members don't listen to the senator's speech very much.]] The bill's designer is Senator Oberfalzer, who has defended his mandate, but has not yet made a promise. That way, we'll have to settle for me as a translator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-001-149.u5	Senator, I'm very sorry to interrupt, but the noise in the House is really great. I'll ask my colleagues to keep their voices down!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-001-149.u6	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. In no way does the Senate call into question the principle of transparency and depoliticisation of state administration. Neither does the principle of professionalising a public service. However, it adheres to the principle of equal access. So what's the problem? One of the six conditions of education for employment is education. The categories of staff are divided into about six parts from the referee, expert reporter, senior reporter, advice, expert advice or board of directors. While all the latter may be forgiven for their education, according to the current wording of the law in the lowest category, i.e. a civil servant with a defined secondary education, with a teaching certificate, this cannot be referred to as a reference. An exception to education can be granted according to the current wording of the law by employees who have long been successful in the performance of their work and who have achieved at least a secondary education with a graduation exam. This means that a senior may perform duties from a specialist to a senior council. However, a person in the lowest position as a reporter had to leave his job if he failed to complete his education by the specified date. Not later than 30 June 2017. By the end of 2015, they had the opportunity to apply for employment, but many employees, and this applies to at least 550 people who knew they didn't meet the condition, they didn't even apply anymore. It is assumed that, overall, this amendment would concern some 1,800 employees. Everything essential is communicated in the explanatory memorandum, and I ask you, in the interests of equal access and equalisation of this injustice, to allow the law to continue reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-001-149.u7	Thank you, Senator. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Jeroným Tejc. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-001-149.u8	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, this law is economical both in terms of the scale of the problems it wishes to adapt and also in terms of the legislative text. The Government's position on this was adopted at a meeting of the Government on 23 May 2016, with the Government's comments on this bill neutrally. I am convinced that, even this, and certainly, as well as other laws, where various exceptions have been mentioned, can cause debate in this plenary and in committees, so I believe that the main part of the debate should take place on the Constitutional Legal Committee and, where appropriate, on other committees. I recommend that this press proceed to second reading and be discussed in committees, so that we do not reject it right now, even though there may be different opinions on this issue. There's no way we're gonna find a fair solution. It is a hesitation between whether it is fair that people who have 20 or 30 years of experience and do not fulfil the condition of education stay in that place and can do 10, 15, 20 years of work on the basis of their experience, or it is fair to demand everyone to fulfil this condition unconditionally and if they fail to comply with it to leave. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is not a matter relating to central government bodies, primarily, of course, even there, that individual persons who would be affected by this law may appear. However, the main gros will probably be at the cadastral offices, the employment offices and, above all, the financial offices. I must say that as I had the opportunity to meet a number of people in practice, I would say that sometimes education is not as important as practice and knowledge of the problems. And I say that regardless of the fact that I have a university education, I have more and more exams, but I'm convinced that yes, that doesn't in itself guarantee that I'll have the best insight into all the problems. Many people who have the practical experience and have it in decades should appreciate their experience. I recommend that we do the same in this case as we did in the other case mentioned by the Senator, i.e. those who did not meet the condition of higher education and had only secondary education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-001-149.u9	I thank and open a general debate in which I register an application with Mr Stanjura's priority right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-001-149.u10	Good afternoon. First, I would like to reassure the rapporteur. Although he has a higher education and full of other trainings, he has the key prerequisite for showing this government - he is a longtime member of social democracy. So when he needs it, there's definitely a place in the state administration. Take it easy! On the second point, before I get to the point, I would like to say that fatigue among social democratic ministers is at the top, because neither of them is present at the hearing. They're probably tired and collecting new forces somewhere. Then I want to say that unfortunately, the government coalition failed to comply with our proposal so that the person who proposed it could actually submit this bill: Senator Oberfalzer. I consider it deliberate and unnecessary. I have made it clear here that he has defended the mandate. And since the old mandate ended at this point, I suggested that we deal with the bill at the next meeting. Because, as the rapporteur said, the government had it at their disposal in May, then we got it right away - and we're in November. So there was no great danger of delay. However, I think it is a good thing that the Senate has prepared this amendment because it opens up a broad field of debate and amendments. Because we already have some practical experience, as does not work by many so much expected, so not by me, so much praised Civil Service Act. Yes, we have a comma, they don't work on us in Brussels anymore: you, you, you! You have no law! It leads to concrete existing positions. See how many tenders are actually unsuccessful, because thanks to the majority of the Chamber of Deputies, we have concluded a real opportunity for successful people to enter the state service. We're really shutting this down. I think experience shows it's a problem. And we are ready and will submit and repeat, as part of the second reading, our amendments, which will open up the civil service to many more, many more suitable to revive, supplement and qualitatively improve the performance of the public service. Because if we ever criticize unnecessary bureaucracy, it is simply understood as a struggle with officials. But it's not like that at all. I think unnecessary forms are really bothering our officials. Very often they have to fill out unnecessary and other and other reports, rather than devote themselves to what they actually want to do, i.e. public service. [[15.10 hours]] So cutting red tape, abolishing unnecessary regulations, opening up a public service is nothing against bureaucracy. On the contrary. I think they know best for themselves how many unnecessary regulations, especially towards central authorities, must be implemented. We, who have experience from self-government, could calculate dozens of unnecessary reports that must constantly be sent somewhere. Maybe the data is stockpiling somewhere. Maybe somebody's adding it up. But that's all there is to it. Nothing else is happening. The second question, which we will reopen in the course of this bill's discussion, and it is clear that we support the release for the next negotiations, is the possibility of contractual salaries. Very often we hear from some or many ministers that they cannot employ real experts because they are specialised professions where the current remuneration system prevents successful and qualified from serving the state. And in such zeal, especially for colleagues from the left, that the contract salary is something bad, we smahem rejected it, and then practical problems arise again. We will certainly return to the fact that the treasurer of the local organization on the Czech side of the Social Democratic Party or the Civil Democratic Party, I call the treasurer of the local organization, which is an ungrateful function, very difficult to occupy, cannot perform even the head of the department at the same time, because in that fundamentalist interpretation of the service law he is politically involved and could side with some of the political parties. And there are other things that I'm sure we'll come back to in the debate. I recommend that, in addition to the Constitutional Legal Committee, the Public Administration Committee discuss this, because there are practical experiences. And I would ask and ask my colleagues from the government coalition to try not to take it prestigiously but practically so that any amendments tabled do not judge whether it is a government Member or opposition, because we all see the negative experience. Or maybe there's a second chance that government MPs and ministers will defil here and say, "It's great, the law works great, we don't have to change it." I don't know which novel it is, but I'm sure it's not the first novel we're discussing. Just because it solves one particular problem doesn't mean that we can't debate other problems that we caused there knowingly or unconsciously. But since the practical experience is, for our club, I say we support the release for second reading. We're sorry Senator Oberfalzer isn't here, most of the government have taken away his chance to defend this place. At the same time, we say that we will make amendments and bring forward a substantive and rational debate, especially at second reading. And then we expect a substantive assessment of the proposals, because our common goal should be to improve the law and improve the functioning of the state administration. The election is coming. And for every member of the government, it is ideal if his office is professional and works well. It is perfectly clear and natural that it then performs the political task and political will of a particular government. So I wouldn't worry about the changes. I would have no concern at all about opening up the public service to successful people in other fields, which we are successfully defending so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-001-149.u11	Thank you. I beg you, Mr Pilný, in fact. The rapporteur shall then be prepared with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-001-149.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add to what the President of the ODS Stanjura MP said here. The Economic Committee meets virtually every meeting with the problems that have been raised here in the debate: that is the issue of competition, that is the question of contractual salaries. Several times, we called on the Government and the Interior Minister to accede to the amendment of the Service Act for this reason. So I very much welcome it. And I would just like to say that I regret that when the selection procedures were to be opened, when the service law was being discussed, the YES Members who voted in favour of opening the competitions also for business workers, from the academic sphere, lacked a few votes, for example, of the ODS Members. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-001-149.u13	Thank you. Now, please, with Mr Tejc's priority right, then in fact... [[Member Stanjure reporting.]] I'll admit it, I saw it, so I'll let you go, but it's about a second. I'm sorry, rapporteur. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-001-149.u14	I thank the rapporteur for his understanding. I just want to respond to... Mr President of the Economic Committee through Madam President, prove it. That's not true. They were our amendments. And we are not in such a schizophrenic situation as many government MPs who will suggest something in good faith, then the government majority will agree that they will not, and then they will not vote for their own proposal. So that's really not true. I really don't. And since I am signed under some amendments, I am sure that is not true. But that's not entirely important. If we change it together, that's good. But I'm looking forward to you showing me that piece of shit. It doesn't have to be on the microphone because I don't think you have the exact information. That's all. I apologise to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-001-149.u15	Thank you and please the rapporteur with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-001-149.u16	First of all, I would like to reassure President Stanjura that I have never been an employee of the state except for the mandate, but that cannot be considered an employment relationship. I was either in business before, or I was an attorney. And I confess that I may not suspect that I would like to report to the service of the state at any time in this sense as an official. That is why it gives me some freedom to express myself on the bill as I say, and to see it perhaps without focusing on making decisions about myself. So never say never, but 99 per cent of you, President Stanjur, through Madam President, I can assure you that I am not going to go into state services in this sense and under this law. Not after, not after, Mr. Stanjura gestures on me. Second assurance, and please, Mr President, through Madam President, check with the members of the Constitutional Legal Committee behind the ODS. We certainly as a whole, not as a coalition, but as a whole as a committee do not judge individual proposals according to who makes them. And I think that the success of the opposition amendments tabled in our committee is certainly greater than it used to be in the past than it was in the ODS and TOP 09. And I don't think it's special. I take it for granted that we should judge matters by their content, not by who has a majority in the committee at the time. After all, opposition ideas are free of charge. And I appreciate it. One last thing - I will briefly comment on the contractual salaries. I'm sure we're having the debate. I wouldn't even have a problem with the principle, but unfortunately the experience is clear. There have been contractual salaries in the past. There were people here who had exceptionally high salaries that exceeded standard tables. But frankly, most of them weren't experts. Look at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for Mr. Drábek. Look at the other ministries. I am certainly not convinced that the Institute of Contractal Salaries will prove itself. Unfortunately, he was abused. A good thought was abused to enable some who would otherwise not work for the state to receive a reward for which they were willing to serve the state. But that's why I look at this thing very carefully. But I'm not resisting the debate. And I don't think anyone's defending her. But personally, the negative experience has affected me so much that I do not yet consider such a proposal to be one that we should support at the moment. But let's have the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-001-149.u17	Thank you. I beg you, Mr Kučera, in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-001-149.u18	Hello. Thank you for the floor. If someone reached extreme heights in the abuse of contractual salaries, it was social democracy during the time of Prime Minister Paroubek, as long as we all remember well. However, I would just like to intercede in order for contractual salaries to find some balance so that we don't go from wall to wall, which means from that time Paroubek will be zero again. We're very limited, for example, in the city. Let me give you a very specific example. We now have quite a large investment construction and we want to find a person who will pursue this as a building supervisor, as a project manager. And we just can't pay this guy from the private sphere and we can't attract him. Of course, this guy can get in for some table salaries, we can deal with some personal evaluations, maybe he can work as an externalist, and then there's some selection procedures, etc. So I'm interrogating myself for actually finding the path of contractual pay opportunities in some compromise, that is, since Paroubek's era and the zero era that is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-001-149.u19	Thank you. That was Mr Kučera's factual point. I have Mr Klán's point of order. But it is next in the debate, so whether it wants to take advantage of the facts or use the debate. Please, you have the floor. You're in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-001-149.u20	Thank you for the floor. I will therefore no longer make use of the factual remarks, even though I have applied because I wanted to respond by your means to Mr Kučera. He mentioned here that contract salaries were the most abused by the government of Jiří Paroubek. It kind of amused me because the right-wing government abused contractual salaries. In the last parliamentary term, this has been handled. Although Mr Kučera was not here, by your means, he was not, so it excuses him, but certainly in some way in politics, so he must have known that wages were being abused. That's why we made the service bill here. And it was your government, too, but in this term, it was the right-wing opposition that made the service law fit her. And then you're always complaining that it's someone else's fault, or that it's the left or anyone else's fault, but think about yourself a little bit, of course, who actually created it all in 2014 and how he blocked it all here. The right-wing government also abused contractual salaries as on the treadmill, which is why it wanted to avoid it, because there were such disturbances, until it wasn't nice. And when it all got out, everyone was just wondering. It's only in the factual way that I feel like I've done in this proper performance of my own. Now, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President, let me introduce you to a few of my remarks on the Senate Bill on Civil Service. The Civil Service Act, when we approved it here in 2014, was adopted with high expectations. Officials promised much of him: firstly, stability and perspective in individual departments, secondly, ensuring expertise in leadership in high positions, and thirdly, in particular, reducing negative political influence on the work of ministries related to political cycles. The Service Act, which, of course, had been approved since 2002, was never effective, or its individual parts, was then prepared here in some way. The General Directorate of State Services was being dealt with here, and then, under pressure from the right-wing opposition, it was finally transferred to the Ministry of the Interior. Then it was going to explain to the European Union how we actually have it here, what's going to happen. The Service Act was given as a hostage to stop subsidies from the European Union. But here I have found that many laws have already been introduced here, that something is being smuggled in, that it must be approved and that the European Union will forbid us to do anything, it will stop us. I think it's given on purpose pretty often. But, of course, we needed a service bill. From the very beginning of the creation and discussion of this law it has been shown that there are systemic errors in the preparation and negotiation of the law, which lead to the fact that the law, after its adoption, is literally neutered in what is good in it, and usually bad things are delivered to it. I see the mistakes as follows: 1. The lawmaker, of course, of the law at the time, I do not mean the Senate petitioner now, but whether it was the government or the Ministry of the Interior, or it was at that time a group of Members who submitted the Civil Service Act did not have and probably still does not have the expertise or ability to prepare a quality bill. And it turns out that we're still here to argue about what state service is or isn't supposed to look like. The preparer of the draft government law proved to be literally and to the letter expert dilettante. This was confirmed by further developments in the law itself. 2. The lawmaker could not defend the draft government bill, which, along with the political games of the right-wing opposition that I was talking about at the beginning, led to the creation of a certain time pressure, and this all showed that it was a law specifically a scumbag and that he himself would not meet the expectations put into it. The son of a bitch who was later approved is then literally added to the letter by innovation itself. But you can't turn a bastard into a top product if you add all the innovations. But to not only speak here in general, now a few words about the proposed changes that the senator was talking about. Looking from this point of view at the proposed changes, these proposed changes are more part of a series of bad practices. I have nothing against remaining experienced employees at financial and social offices. I have no objection to this, I suppose, to the Senate's sincere efforts to prevent the departure of unqualified but experienced financial and social workers. However, the amendment opens the door to various iniquities. Politicians will concrete their ideally devoted but incompetent people into the structures of the state administration. That, ladies and gentlemen, is a real threat. As has been said here many times in the debate, various amendments will gradually come in and we will once again create a new type of service law. The fact that experienced people leave has long since come true. The quote "those who were to remain left, those who were to leave, stayed, " slowly but certainly starting to fill. It's confirmed that the law is a scumbag. I wouldn't be surprised if the next political guarantee to come to the Chamber of Deputies next year would be abolished by the law. If something can be saved, then it is a clear rule without exceptions and a detailed implementation methodology that will not allow political machination with the law. Finally, let us ask ourselves a few questions. First, we made an exception for the ambassadors, Mrs Klausová and Mrs Filipi, who were 70 years old, because the age of 70 is clearly defined as the ceiling for leaving the state service. That's the first exception we made here a year ago. That was the first exception. Now we are creating another exception, once again an exception, we will say again that it will not apply to some officials for 70 years. Then comes some other ministry with a problem, and we'll need to make another exception. Another exception will be 70 years again. So I have to ask if it's better to cancel the age altogether, because if it's there, there's going to be a problem, because there are some things that aren't going to happen on individual ministries. It's still inconclusive, and there's no clear long-term strategy of how it's supposed to be done. As you can see, the Civil Service Act is causing more and more problems, and it needs to be amended comprehensively. Either novelize or prepare a whole new one, because the one who was approved here at that time in a hurry under the pressure of the right-wing opposition led to a complete asshole. The point is for the state administration to become professional. So far, there's no indication that there's a lot of exceptions in the law. The law with its very exceptions, I'm not saying that the exception is wrong, but if there are a lot of exceptions and then we make another exception for the exception, then everyone in the finals must be lost and the law loses its essence to professionalize the entire state administration. I was talking about contract pay here at the beginning. I understand that some workers cannot, in their nature, pay for the service bill. This is a problem for IT employees, where they are really rewarded even badly, or fall into different grades. This, of course, needs to be communicated and resolved. This is one of the basic problems of rewarding them. As this law concerns the public administration, I will, of course, also propose the commandments of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Thank you for your attention. These are from me such observations from reality, which is quite complex in the field of public service. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-001-149.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I shall give priority to the microphone of the rapporteur and then Mr Plíšek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-001-149.u22	Thank you for the floor. I will allow myself only on the basis of the debate and also because I think that we are able to discuss the law very quickly, given what the law also regulates, that is to say, there are certain deadlines in which it is necessary for the employees concerned to sign up to stay with the state, so I propose that the deadline be reduced by 30 days to 30 days from the 60 and I ask that this be voted on after the debate is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-001-149.u23	Yes, I'm registering your proposal. And now, please, to the mic of Mr. Plíšek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-001-149.u24	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I would like to begin by responding to Mr Klánek by means of you. His speech revealed that perhaps the right-wing opposition was the author of the Service Act. It really isn't. It was a legislative proposal prepared first by Minister Dienstbier and then at the Ministry of the Interior. We only had some essential comments on this proposal, and some of them actually accepted the government coalition, and that is when it allowed us to vote in favour of this proposal. However, I stress that these were some comments. In a number of things that we criticized during the negotiation of the service law, we were not granted and were promised to submit a government amendment to the service law. Unfortunately, the Minister of the Interior, who is now the guarantor of the Service Act, is not here to discuss this law. And I would like to mention here what things we have advocated and which have been promised to be dealt with in the amendment. It was more permeability and openness of the public service, because not only because of the political management of the public service and the preservation of some people in the public service, but also because of the fact that it has simply taken on some existing condition that has been preserved, so many experts do not have access to the public service, whether it is in the first stages of the selection process people from the regions, from the municipalities, whether they are experts from the academic sphere, whether they are also experts from the commercial sphere, from the private sphere. Unfortunately, none of them can get into different positions in the public service in the first rounds of competitions, and I would therefore like to say that, in the second reading, things that have been promised and have not been submitted here will also have to be dealt with. I don't even know if the government intends to send its amendment to the Service Act here at all during this parliamentary term. Now we're dealing with a problem of 550, the senator said 1,200-1,300 employees, so I'm going to even want second reading to be precisely quantified. I'm not a fan of exceptions. And again, it's a wonder that the senators had to notice and the guarantor of this law is basically making a face, so I mean the Ministry of the Interior, that everything is okay, and so the Senate had to sort of explain and submit this amendment to us. I agree that if the possibility of exceptions has already been approved in other places, I do not see why it should be otherwise for employees without a high school education with a graduation or a teaching certificate if they meet the conditions. But then the question is, why are they measured on a different subway? And it would also be good to say when the exemption from the service law will end. They should not automatically be, as they say, endlessly, but there should be some date when they say that exceptions will no longer be possible, and that is correct for those whom I hope we will open up the civil service for the future. So I also call on the absent Home Secretary here, but he is from social democracy, so also his colleagues, to tell us whether the government will actually keep its promise and submit an amendment to the Service Act. Otherwise, I add that we do not have a problem with the release of this proposal for second reading for TOP 09, and I am more likely to consider whether there will be any further proposals for adjustment, whether to shorten the deadline, but of course we will decide that by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-001-149.u25	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr Plíšek. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate and I am asking the applicant's final words or the rapporteur. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-001-149.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Thank you for the Senate's hospitality so far. Just a brief response to Mr Plíšek's speech. This number will never be specified because current service data show that it is at least 550 employees, but around 1,800 existing employees did not apply for admission at all due to the current wording of the Act. If the law changes as the Senate suggests, or you modify it, then it is likely that one of them will still apply. Otherwise, thank you for your kindness and goodbye.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-001-149.u27	I thank the Senator, and we will now address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering a proposal to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee, but President Stanjura proposed another guarantee committee in the general debate, and that is the Committee on Public Administration. [[Objection.]] Next, sorry, sorry. So we will vote on the commandment to the Guarantee Committee - the Constitutional Legal Committee. There's a request for everyone to check out, so I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the commandment of the Committee of Constitutional Law as a committee of guarantee. I am opening the vote on the commandment to this committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 240 vote, 136 Members and Members registered, for 134, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that the proposal was directed to the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order a proposal to another Committee. Mr Stanjura has proposed a Committee on Public Administration. Mr. Mr. Kučera. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-001-149.u28	Thank you for the floor. Since these are the salaries of industry experts in particular, IT, construction, I would like to propose an economic committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-001-149.u29	And Mrs Pastuchová is reporting with the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-001-149.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you for a commandment to the Committee on Social Policy, on the ground that there is little medical opinion and an amendment will be tabled at second reading which will prolong the exception for these doctors, i.e. the age of 70. It's about 150 doctors, and it's because of the risk of collapse of the care allowance and assessment of the degree of disability. The Chairman of the Social Policy Committee agrees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-001-149.u31	Thank you. Mr Bendl still has a motion for a commandment to another committee. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-001-149.u32	Thank you for the floor. I know this is a general debate, but I don't think it's here. I think it's at least 50-50 when we were talking about a guarantee committee being a constitutional law committee, but who else should discuss this material but a committee on public administration and regional development? So I propose a committee on public administration and regional development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-08-ps2013-050-08-001-149.u33	So far, that was the final motion on the commandment of the committee. If no one else has one, we will vote gradually. First of all, the proposal proposed by the Committee on Public Administration by President Stanjura, as well as by Mr Petr Bendl. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Whoever is for the commandment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 241, registered 140 Members, for 110, against 11. The motion was accepted. Mr Michal Kučera proposed to order this proposal to the Economic Committee. That's what the vote is about. Who is for the commandment to the Economic Committee? Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 242, 140 Members are registered, for 102, against 21. This proposal has also been adopted. And the last proposal is Mrs Pastuchová's proposal at the social committee's commandment. That's what I started the vote on. Whoever is for the commandment of the Social Committee, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 243, 140 Members are registered, for 89, against 18. This proposal has also been adopted. I note that the proposal has been directed to the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee, as well as to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, the Economic Committee and the Committee on Social Policy. The last thing we are going to vote on is to shorten the deadline by 30 days to 30 days, as Mr Tejc suggested. Initiating vote to shorten the deadline. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 244, registered with 141 Members, for 52, against 55, the proposal was not accepted, so the deadline was not shortened. That concludes the first reading of this bill. I thank both Mr Senator and Mr Tejc. The next item is:
