ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-001-050.u1	50. Government bill amending Act No. 153/1994 Coll., on Intelligence Services of the Czech Republic, as amended, and other related laws /house print 855/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the Prime Minister, Bohuslav Sobotka, will present the proposal. Please, Prime Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-001-050.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you as a representative of the Government with a bill amending the law on intelligence services of the Czech Republic and some other related laws. This proposal could also be referred to as a draft law on enhanced monitoring of intelligence services. The purpose of this law is not to fundamentally change the functioning of intelligence services, it does not aim to strengthen their powers. With this proposal, the government is fulfilling its programming declaration, in which it has undertaken to strengthen, on the one hand, the intelligence services, both in terms of competences and in terms of budget, so that they can carry out the tasks entrusted to them today and protect the citizens of the Czech Republic. On the other hand, however, we have undertaken to balance this step in the direction that we will adequately strengthen control of intelligence activities. This step is justified in the fact that the Czech Republic is and is to remain a liberal democracy, a rule of law, and in the rule of law, state power is to be controlled as to whether it violates the rule of law and human rights. On the other hand, the intelligence services are a specific state authority. Their activities take place in a substantial part under cover and this element must be maintained. This fact is fully respected in the bill's proposal, as I will point out further. In its programming statement, the Government stated two basic facts on which the proposal was based. First of all, the government has applied to the idea of ensuring parliamentary control over all intelligence services. The establishment of a parliamentary committee for the control of the Office for Foreign Relations and Information, which does not yet exist, is therefore proposed. Furthermore, the government committed itself to creating the so-called Second level of control. To this end, it is proposed that the establishment of an independent control body, which is to be equipped with powers to control the legality of intelligence activities, should also be monitored. living things, with certain limits, which I will mention further. In the case of that authority, given its powers, the government used as a starting point the fact that it should be made up of experts who would be trustworthy, verified and respected. In this context, when preparing the proposal that I present to you today, the government has moved and held, while conscious of the sensitivity of the issue and at the same time the need to balance individual principles and interests, so that, if necessary, the control can fulfil its purpose and, at the same time, there is no threat to the functionality of intelligence services in the Czech Republic. Although this is a matter of material complexity, I believe that this objective has been achieved, even in view of the thoroughness of the preparation of this proposal. It took more than a year to prepare a proposal from the initial preparations of its concept to the submission of the Chamber of Deputies. During its course, experts from the intelligence services were consulted on matters of expertise and from a political point of view, the future form of the proposal was consulted with representatives of the parliamentary clubs in this Chamber of Deputies. These consultations took place intensively in several stages for six months. They had different forms. They began the discussion at which I introduced representatives of all the club members on 2 July last year with the intention of the government and the possible initial framework of the future draft law and asked everyone involved to express their views on both the intention and its possible form. This discussion has already been very valuable because it has shown where there is a broad consensus and which issues, on the contrary, are questionable. Detailed opinions were then sent to the participants in the meeting in writing and served as a basis for the preparation of the first draft law concept. During the autumn, work was carried out on its completion. The intention of the future adjustment, where the initiatives received were prepared, was presented to representatives of the parliamentary clubs last 16 December. There have also been comments from this meeting that have been used for further work. Those who took part in the meetings as representatives of the club members know that many of the comments made were taken into account during the preparation and, in some ways, the proposal partly changed its form on the basis of the processing of the comments made. I would like to thank all the representatives of the parliamentary clubs for this cooperation, which has been an essential contribution to the preparation of the bill presented today. As I have already said, the substantive intention of the future proposal has also been consulted from a professional point of view by representatives of the intelligence services and the National Security Authority. Their participation was also beneficial and certainly contributed to the quality of the proposal. At the final stage, the proposal for a future adjustment was also discussed directly with the directors of all three intelligence services of the Czech Republic on 20 January and I can say that it passed without any more comments. Following these negotiations, work was started on the paragrafo version, with the fact that between 21 March and 20 April the draft law was the subject of a commentary procedure. The Government discussed this proposal on 22 June this year and on 30 June this year this proposal was submitted to the Chamber of Deputies. On the first of September, an expert seminar was held here in the Chamber of Deputies. For the organisation of this seminar, I would like to thank Vice-President of the Security Committee, Mr Bezecný, where this bill was the subject of open discussion, with the participation of both the professional public and again with the participation of representatives of the parliamentary clubs. I am very pleased that even here it has come to this fact that this proposal has received relatively broad support. I mention all these facts in particular because, from the very beginning, both personally and for the Government, such a sensitive matter was important for me and for the government, which goes beyond normal political operation at coalition-position level, to discuss both politically and professionally in the broadest possible forum and reach as broad a political consensus as possible. I would also like this to be the result of the discussion of this proposal on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, because we are dealing with an adjustment which, if it is approved, will undoubtedly affect a number of other terms of office, either the next governments or the next Chamber of Deputies, and if this adjustment is not to be amended after each election, I think it is important that we achieve the widest possible political consensus across the government coalition and across the opposition. With regard to some of the interesting details of this bill, I do not want to extend the initial speech too much, but I want to mention, in particular, the powers relating to the independent control body. The independent control authority is a completely new element proposed in this bill. Its task is to check that all three intelligence services in their activities do not exceed the limits of the law and respect constitutionally guaranteed human rights. The authority of the independent control body should be substantially wider than Parliament's control committees in that it can also carry out control in its work. living things. However, the Controlled Intelligence Service will not be obliged to transmit information that could - and thus a strict restriction on the confidentiality of this information is provided here, will not be transmitted mandatory, which could thwart the purpose of the actions under way, reveal the identity of members of the intelligence services, reveal the identity of persons acting for the benefit of the intelligence services or endanger other persons whose security is in the important interest of the intelligence service, or violate the requirements of the foreign intelligence service for the non-disclosure of classified information. All the above exceptions are factually justified and do not limit any possible prosecutions which could occur on the basis of the findings of the independent control authorities. In the event of such a finding, the independent control authority would have notified the Supreme Prosecutor who would have acted in accordance with the applicable criminal rules. [[9.20 hours]] Otherwise, I remind you that the independent control body should have five members and should be elected by the Chamber of Deputies on the basis of a government proposal. The government should nominate at least two candidates for each vacancy, and these candidates should be tested for a top secret level by the time the proposal is submitted. At least so much basic information on the bill submitted. I would like to ask that the Chamber of Deputies pay sufficient attention to this proposal so that we can discuss this draft before the end of the term of office of the Chamber of Deputies in order to deal with its discussion in the Senate. And I think that this could be one of the very important changes that this Chamber of Deputies could leave in this term of office on the basis of its work in the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-001-050.u3	I, too, thank you, Prime Minister, and please take the floor of the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Václav Klučka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-001-050.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my intelligence report in a truly unconventional manner. I'll make an apology. I will apologize for the fact that in today's editorials on Czech Television you could hear from my speech that we are checking not only in the second degree, but in the basic parliamentary control, the Office for State Representation and Information. I apologized in the next part of the conversation when I said that. Czech TV didn't give it anymore. I wrote the office as it sounds for sure as well, because he really has an almost similar shortcut, and it was not my intention to invent an organization that doesn't work in the Czech Republic. I apologise to you, I apologize to the Prime Minister, I apologize to the citizens and, above all, to the members and staff of the Office for Foreign Relations and Information. Now, about the separate issue. The government submitted a bill to the Chamber of Deputies 30. 6. 2016. The bill was sent to Members and Members on the same day, 30. 6. 2016 as House Press 865. The Organizing Committee discussed this proposal 13. 7. 2016 and recommended its discussion in the Chamber of Deputies with the fact that the item was put on the agenda of this 49th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I have listened very carefully to the opening performance of the premiere, and indeed, there is nothing to add. There's no part of the law that he didn't notice, or virtually. Which he wouldn't describe more precisely. So let me just do a few things about the whole preparation. Yes, the Prime Minister on the Security Committee promised before this law began to be discussed that, in the case of the second degree of control and amendment of the Intelligence Act, he would allow each member of the Assembly to be in a working group convened by the Bureau of the Government and the entire period dealt with not only the creation of the Act, i.e. those issues that were first prepared, but subsequently with a paragrafo text. It's the Prime Minister's promise. In my opinion, this law is balanced. It enables the control of intelligence activities and does not endanger their functioning at the same time. I think that the specific details that we have already heard in the galleys, or the comments on whether or not a member of the second degree should be that person, or whether it should relate to the members of the security forces, are special topics that have their place in the committees to which the law will be ordered, and I recommend to the Chamber of Deputies to release this law to the second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-001-050.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I open a general debate in which I register two applications. Mr Seďa will appear first, Mr Benda will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-001-050.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for their greater control with the strengthening of the competences of the intelligence services, so here I see the proposal positively, especially from the point of view of the introduction of civilian intelligence control so far, if you want the Office for Foreign Relations and Information. Although the proposal does not concern the reform of intelligence services, I would like to remind you that already in 2008 the substantive intention of the Intelligence Act, which introduced the new security intelligence service, was presented if you want counter-intelligence and national intelligence, i.e. intelligence. And in this factual intention, and this is important and related to the proposed draft law, two checks are being set up for intelligence services. The first is a parliamentary supervisory body composed of five Members, always for one intelligence service. Unlike today's situation, however, these Members should have had a valid certificate of a natural person to the level of secrecy top secret. The second condition is a possible conflict of interest for persons who had some connection to intelligence services, such as the Prime Minister, the Minister of Interior or Defence, or former directors of intelligence services, etc. In addition to this parliamentary supervisory body, an independent supervisory body consisting again of five members was established for both intelligence services. These members were the Presidents of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court, the President of the Supreme Audit Office and the Ombudsman. This supervisory authority would carry out control of compliance activities and fundamental rights and freedoms on the basis of initiatives from the parliamentary supervisory authority and would also act as supervision of the processing of personal data. For your information, I present some types of intelligence checks in the world. But I would like to point out in advance that there is always a permanent dispute in all countries about whether to have services centralised or diversified. And then the scope and the way they're controlled is related to that. For example, in neighbouring Austria, the audit is addressed by the relevant Sub-Committee on Intelligence Control composed of representatives of all parties represented in the National Council and in addition the Court of Auditors controls the budget of the intelligence services. In France, intelligence services are subject only to their own executive control, which (?) They provide three grémias made up of ministerial officials, and a single parliamentary control is carried out by the State Commission for the Control of Security Detachment. In the United States of America, they have their own executive control exercised by ministries with the highest authority of the National Security Council. Parliamentary control is carried out by Congress, both by the Senate Audit Committee and by the House of Representatives Audit Committee. In these committees, there is a high number of legislators elected by individual factions. While both committees work independently, it is important to establish trust between services and supervisory authorities. The two committees shall cooperate only in the case of budgets and economic plans. Committees shall be subject to strict confidentiality obligations. In addition to parliamentary scrutiny, the courts have jurisdiction over service files, which is rather preventive legal protection against service measures. And there is also an independent supervisory committee for the control of service regulations. Finally, my speech must be said that despite the fact that the control mechanisms are different, the problems that arise in their own control are essentially the same in all states. It's a contradiction between secrecy and public control. There are executive controls in all states, as there are parliamentary controls. But there is not enough parliamentary control anywhere. Particular attention should be paid to the control of intelligence budgets. It can be noted that the effectiveness of the control stands and falls with confidence in the service in the control instance. If actual secrecy is not ensured, effective control cannot be carried out. That is why Parliament is responsible for ensuring that security gaps cannot be created in their control bodies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-001-050.u7	Thank you, too. Mr Benda, now duly signed up. Mr Gabal will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-001-050.u8	Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I have one of the quite important bills before me. But I will begin by thanking the Prime Minister for the fact that this was indeed a bill that was communicated very carefully across this Chamber of Deputies. I am pleased that the Prime Minister realizes that this is a matter that needs to be dealt with so that it does not become a political conflict, that the secret services are simply not a matter that belongs in the field of political conflict, and their control is certainly not. I am glad that he has been like this all along, and I must say that the negotiations that have been going on here across the political spectrum and where everyone has found a little bit of his point of view have been extremely useful for all of us and for understanding how services can be controlled, virtually. How to achieve a state when services will still be operational, still credible to their foreign partners, and yet there will be some way to check if we feel that some of the services are flying off the rules of the game, yet there will be such a way. I think the proposal is very balanced and very reasonable. I do not in any way question the overall concept of both the first-level control authorities and the specific control body. I just want to draw attention to a few of the problems that have gotten there more or less during the bureaucratic negotiations between the definitive conclusion, let's say, the political consensus on this House and the government's actions, when it always goes into those official circles that sometimes bring their official ideas. I would say that there was such a special combination here, when the original idea, with which the Prime Minister left the House and sent the bill to a commentary procedure, was that the five members of the supervisory body would be some specially selected personalities, let's say mostly at the end of their political, administrative, judicial, state-owned or somehow connected careers, who would be paid in some way and would basically be on alert if something were to happen. During the hearing of the Ministry of Finance's objections - and here I don't think it's the Minister of Finance's personal objections, I wouldn't really blame him for that, but just the classic official noticed, it was said, well, they can't have much money if they're not too busy, so let's give them a flat-rate... He himself has already ploughed the $20,000 proposed here, given into the law, is something very unusual and it was one of the things that was clearly criticized at the expert seminar, so that in no way we put the exact amounts of salaries into the law, because it drives us crazy. I think that's the basic problem that we're gonna have to sort out. I wouldn't mind leaning towards the lump sum being higher and unfolding from something else. But at the same time, it was argued that a member of such a supervisory body had a lot of incompatibility - a judge, any policy, i.e. The House, the Senate, the government, but even surprisingly also the council of cities and municipalities, the regional council, but it is not incompatible with the public service. I'm a little worried about that, which is why I'm saying that there's a little bit of a wiggling in the office that they just wrote it down or that the individual security experts at the ministries put it in their picture with the idea that even though there's a first request for top secret clearance, which is quite high, there's actually a couple of well-deserved men from the state service who are going to have the $20,000 as such a pleasant salary contribution. I don't think we had it originally designed this way, and I'm going to want to say, first, some reasonable flat-rate compensation and certainly not a fixed amount in the law, so that we say, in my opinion, either not to define the incompatibility of functions, or if, then, it must also be incompatible with the civil service. Either we say it's possible, or we can't pretend that the civil service is something else. And yet the problem is that education is required only in the field of law. Even here, I think we might want a college education requirement. It doesn't bother me personally, but if it has to be just lawyers at any cost, or it could be some other college-educated people, I think it's still on the table. In any event, I will propose that the bill be discussed by the Defence Committee in addition to the Security Committee to which it is ordered, because it also includes one of the services or at least one of the services. And I would like us to order him to the Constitutional Legal Committee, too, to deal with some constitutional contexts. These are my, let's say, light - and I say that it was really agreed with the Prime Minister, and I think that the proposal is very balanced - a slight reservation of the definitive text that came here and which the officials so slightly chewed up in their own image. I think it's all repairable and manageable. But let me think about one more thing, let's say de lege ferenda for future adjustment, but maybe we could think about it as part of this bill and try to find a solution. We all perceive that services and their performance are a thing that cannot be interfered with too much, which actually takes place in a very different regime, because in a secret regime, in a number of cases even top secret, in a regime of exchange of information with foreign services, where it depends extremely on whether the service has confidence that it is really impenetrable. And at the same time, we've all had the experience of spring, virtually. For the pre-flight of 2013, when a police unit comes to the Military Defence Intelligence Service under the authority of the District Court in Ostrava and is looking for something there. Even then, I was deeply convinced that a completely disastrous thing had happened. Now it's not the blame of individual actors, I'm looking away from that. Completely catastrophic thing that ordinary police officers were allowed into the Military Defence Intelligence building at all, that it was possible for something like this to happen. I have the impression that the Minister of Defence at the time should have stepped in and said: in no way must you enter the Secret Service. However, it has become and has become an extremely dangerous precedent, which actually means that we are talking here about the law on intelligence control, we are extremely worried that none of the Members must have access, the government must not have access, in some ways, even the second-degree supervisory authority specifically selected will not have access to certain materials, if the head of the secret service says no, you must not enter there - and in theory any police officer with the consent of the state's attorney and the stamp of the court may come into the secret service if he has doubts as to whether there is a violation of the law. And frankly, all over the world, we know that the secret services are just, let's say, moderate, and that there are situations where they must be violated, and it is quite right, and with the knowledge of the authorities they correspond to. I think - and that is why I say that this is the consideration of de lege ferenda, but we have to deal with it that we have to sort out this situation in some way. We cannot continue to allow ourselves to pretend that no one else can control the secret services except for any police authority. And here I would like us to keep this in mind during the committee procedure and know that really where the classified materials are of some degree, so that entry should be in a completely different regime and in completely different rules than we are used to in the ordinary criminal code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-001-050.u9	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. More apologies have arrived. Mr Petr Kudela apologizes until 11:00 a.m. to the end of the day for personal reasons, Mr Soukup apologizes and Mrs Kailová apologizes from today's meeting. Mr Gabal will also speak in the debate, Mr Ondráček will be prepared. - I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, with a factual remark, Mr. Seďa is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-001-050.u10	I'm not gonna hold you up, just because it's been here a couple of times. We have only military intelligence after the reform of military intelligence, which has a file both intelligence and actually one that ensures security in the Czech Republic. And there's still military defense intelligence. So it's just military intelligence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-001-050.u11	Thank you, and I'm sorry again. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-001-050.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleague, Prime Minister, fellow Members, I will continue with the positive reviews of the amendment, but I would like to recall a few other circumstances which have not been mentioned and which may be important for the assessment. First of all, it didn't say anything, but it should be said that at this point, we're implementing something that's part of the coalition agreement and government proposal. In Chapter XI, point 11.2, the second indent - I quote: In response to recent developments and events, we see the need for a change in the mechanisms for monitoring intelligence services, where there have been insufficient possibilities for parliamentary audit bodies, we will examine the external experience of the action of Parliament derived from the civil control body composed of credible security-tested and respected citizens, which could complement the existing control mechanisms and also carry out internal control of intelligence services and provide information on whether there has been a breach of the law and whether the services are carried out according to their mission and legal designation. In the next item: In the preparation of this qualitative change in the extension of the control of secret services, there will be scope for discussion and implementation of structural changes in the competences of the focus and division of the scope of the services towards greater efficiency and division of their work and responsibilities. Because I negotiated this part, I remember how much skepticism was at all about whether it was possible, whether it was achievable. I think that although it is originally a coalition proposal that representatives of all parliamentary parties have worked it out with all due diligence, and I believe that the system will be operational. I'm sure we'll still tune in, but that's basic here in a much wider consensus. In this context, I would point out that the assumption is that the control system will not reduce the performance of services, but will increase the performance of services, because it will motivate them to do some things and not do some things. It is also important to note that a relatively critical response to developments in the period mentioned here by both Marek Benda and we have recently experienced it during this parliamentary term, and the proposal does not have the character of crisis management, but it has the character of shifting control qualitatively further. However, it must be said that if we adopt this proposal - I believe it and support it to the maximum - that it is waiting for us, and I hope for the end of the parliamentary term, the implementation of the External Service Control Act, where I think we still have a lot of work to do, and I hope also in consensus. And last but not least, what I quoted as the second point, the mechanism, and I will not anticipate how it should look, increasing the control of the coordination of secret services between them both in terms of their mutual cooperation, and we have seen in the recent problematic case that the coordination was probably not entirely ideal there, rather the opposite, and, on the other hand, providing feedback and qualitative evaluation on how the services not only bring information, but how the information is working, because there it seems to me that we should also try to think about such things in some way. So once again, I would like to thank all those who participated in the proposal. The opening skepticism didn't give me much hope at the time that it worked. We did it, we got it on the table, and I think we got it in good shape. I will be very supportive of the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-001-050.u13	Thank you. Mr Ondráček will now appear, Mr Lank will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-001-050.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, Mr Prime Minister, colleagues, I would like to begin by thanking the Prime Minister and the entire government for the way they stood up to this bill. For myself, and I dare say for the whole club KSČM, I can say that this is how I would imagine making laws, at least those key laws that are above the political plane. So, Prime Minister, thank you for the attitude and the meetings we held at the Office of the Government. The law itself. In view of what is mentioned in Section 12, in those conditions for who may be a member of the second degree control body, i.e. a person over 40 years of age, a student of law, etc., blameless, with the fact that he would have to have a valid background check on top secret, and I was holding such a background check and I know what it takes and how long it takes, so I think it is not entirely well anchored, and I think that was mentioned by colleague Benda, the § 12h, when exactly the standard amount of CZK 20,000 is laid down in the law. I think that, for the longer functioning of this law, so that we do not have to deal with any rate of inflation or other important matters, the amendment to the law, that we might be looking for another mechanism, how to say this, for example. the average wage coefficient in the non-business sector or anything else so that the remuneration is longer. I'm a little worried about who's gonna want to go to that top-secret background check, because the limitations that such a person has, let it be permanent consent to looking into all his bank accounts, if any. the consent of the permanent wiretapping of his phone, a report to the National Security Authority on any travel to the visa state or, if applicable, contact with a visa citizen, I note, is written information that you must regularly give to the National Security Authority... I'm a little worried about some of these people being discouraged because that amount of CZK 20,000 for people in the legal direction isn't that lucrative. And if we want to have at least two candidates in one place, I'm afraid there may be a little bit of a problem here, because these people won't have such an extreme interest in doing such an activity. So I think that we may still have, and I assume that in the constitutional committee, we have room to discuss this matter. I believe, Prime Minister, that you will also be involved, if any. representatives of the Office of the Government, and we will look for a way to make it not only functional, but also to fully implement it as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-001-050.u15	I thank you, too, and now duly signed up Mr Lank. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-001-050.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm sorry, but the House printer seems to be in a long-term occupation, so I have to take an electronic thing here. Good morning, esteemed colleagues. Only briefly comments from Úsvit - National Coalition on this bill. I admit that I wasn't exactly a supporter, and I'm not really a second-level Secret Service checker until now. I would almost say that maybe we shouldn't control them at all, because I'm saying that we should have intelligence that we can trust, and therefore there's no need to control them. But so be it. I understand the reasons for this. I also understand that you have put this in the coalition agreement, my fellow government colleagues, and that is why you are promoting it. I can understand that. I say so be it. But if we're going to do this, then let's do it in a way that's really beneficial, it makes sense, and most importantly, it doesn't hurt. I strongly support the establishment of a parliamentary committee for the Office of Foreign Relations and information following the model of the other intelligence services that we have in the Republic and which this permanent supervisory body has in the Chamber of Deputies. Now that they've all got it, I don't see any reason for it to get out of hand. I am very pleased and thank you for finally listening to one of my fundamental comments and not just mine, and for giving way to the original intention that all who have ever been members of the Security Councils would have been excluded from membership of the second degree supervisory authority in advance. Basically, we'd rule out anyone who was in the fire department 20 years ago, so he couldn't be a member anymore. I think it's quite a shame. In my view, the proposed restriction that a candidate must not be in the case of security forces in the last three years is quite acceptable. However, I consider it quite unfortunate to be a condition of legal education. It is nothing against lawyers at all, but in such an institution I think that there will be a much more valuable person who has experience from the intelligence services, who focuses on the issue and maybe has a so-called good name for partner services abroad. Nor do I find it unfortunate to lay down wage conditions directly by law. If it turns out it's wrong, we're going to have to change the whole law again, which is, as I don't have to remind you here, a rather lengthy and complicated process. In my opinion, that would have been enough to deal with the government's regulation. The problem, in my opinion, will also be top-secret clearance. I don't know who you have experience with this, but it takes a plus minus a year to complete it. And the second-degree audit authority's candidate will have to apply for it in advance without knowing, of course, whether or not he'll ever succeed and need the clearance. But at the same time, I honestly admit that I consider top secret clearance to be necessary and necessary, especially at the moment that this supervisory authority is able to control so-called living things. Just a brief conclusion, the most important thing. I think the question of trust is absolutely crucial. We must realise that the country of the size of the Czech Republic simply cannot be without cooperation with foreign services. At the same time, there is always a certain degree of paranoia in this environment, which is understandable and to some extent probably necessary. However, at the moment when foreign partners suspect that the living information they would possibly provide will be accessed by people who should not, or that we have a politically motivated supervisory authority, tasked, in which case trust is often built for many years, if not decades, away at one time, and our intelligence services from foreign partners will then receive the maximum postcard for Christmas. I therefore urge the utmost caution not to cause more harm than good by this change and to treat it this way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-001-050.u17	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Chalupa came forward with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-001-050.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, members of the government, honourable colleagues, members of the ANO 2011 parliamentary club, welcomed the whole initiative aimed at two-stage intelligence control, joined it, and actively participated in working discussions in the preparation of the draft law, as the Prime Minister spoke about it here. I believe that extending those competences and discussions in the House's bodies will also contribute to the debate on the coordination of intelligence services, as Mr Gabal has said here. I think that's one of the things we really should be dealing with. If we are talking about how the two-tier control committee is going to be composed in accordance with Section 12, then if we come to the conclusion that it will be people who will be paid well, and we may also be thinking about how it will be a more permanent employment relationship when it is called this way, then I do not see any reason to argue that this second-degree commission should also be controlled by other entities related to matters relating to intelligence services, as well as by an entity such as the GIBS Control Commission, because we are also basically toothless in terms of living volumes. So I think this could be a debate in the House's bodies. We certainly don't have a problem with leaking information solved, which, of course, has something to do with it. The discussion should also be very intense. And at the end of my speech, I'm making a motion to discuss the draft in the Permanent Committee on Military Intelligence Control. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-001-050.u19	Thank you. With a factual point, Mr Urban is registered. [[Gesticulation.]] You're not logged in. Okay. I'll delete your application. I wonder if anyone else is joining the general debate. I don't see anyone. If no one else is reporting, I am ending the general debate. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. I wonder if anyone is proposing a commandment to another committee as a guarantee. I don't see a suggestion. In that case, I shall make a motion for a resolution. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that the proposal submitted be ordered to discuss the Security Committee as a guarantee committee, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 132, 145 Members and Members registered, for proposal 127, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I will just repeat the proposals that were made in the debate. Mr Benda proposes ordering this press to the Defence Committee and the Constitutional Committee. Mr. MP Chalupa... [[Member of the Chalupa reminds of the place: the Permanent Commission.]] No. [[Noise in the hall, screams that only committees can be commanded, not committees.]] I am afraid we can only order this press to committees, not permanent committees. I wonder if anyone else has a motion for a commandment to the committees to discuss. The Commission can, of course, take the press on its own to discuss it, because it decides to do so and is free to discuss it. This is a commandment to committees for discussion. If there is no further proposal, we will vote on the two proposals by Mr Benda. First, I begin the vote and ask who is in favour of the commandment to discuss this press to the Defence Committee, press the button and lift the year. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 133, 146 Members are registered, for proposal 122, against 5. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been adopted. [[10.00 hours]] I will also begin the vote and ask who is in favour of the commandment of this press to the constitutionally legal committee to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 134. 146 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 129, against no one. I am of the opinion that this proposal has also been approved. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss both the Defence Committee and the Constitutional Legal Committee as well as other committees. I thank both the Prime Minister and the rapporteur. I'm done discussing this press. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
