ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-011-038.u1	38. Government bill amending Act No. 96/1993 Coll., on Building Savings and State Support for Building Savings and Supplementary Act of the Czech National Council No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended by the Czech National Council Act No. 35/1993 Coll., as amended /house print 782/ - first reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-011-038.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly mention the government bill amending Act No. 96/1993 Coll. on Building Savings and State Support for Building Savings, which is registered as House Print No. 782. First of all, I would like to stress that this is only a technical amendment which does not interfere in any way with the amount of State aid or the conditions for obtaining it. In this respect, I would remind you that in the construction savings, 3.5 million will be saved for citizens and the Ministry of Finance paid out state aid amounting to CZK 4.6 billion last year. The reason for submitting this technical amendment is in particular to make the exercise of supervision of compliance with the conditions for granting state aid for building savings more effective. The Ministry of Finance will be able to respond more flexibly to individual citizens' initiatives, as it will have legal support in obtaining the necessary information from building savings banks outside the control system, i.e. faster and with less bureaucracy. The process will be simplified for participants in building savings themselves, who will not have to supplement their individual incentives with an officially verified signature. These are, for example, citizens' complaints that they have not received State aid. Standard checks in construction savings banks will, of course, continue to run according to the control rules. The proposed changes further regulate terminology and clarify the provisions on the transmission of information on the State aid recovered between the construction savings bank and the Ministry of Finance. Other changes include the addition of a registered partner among loved ones and will therefore be allowed to provide a new loan from the building savings also to finance the housing needs of that person. This eliminates unjustified discrimination against registered partners. Finally, I would like to point out that the draft law was also continuously consulted with the Czech National Bank in its preparation. In the light of the above, I ask you to give your consent to the proposed bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-011-038.u3	Thank you, too, Minister. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Roman Procházka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-011-038.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, the aim of the Government's bill is, in particular, to make compliance with the conditions for granting state aid to construction savings under the Construction Savings Act more effective and to prevent the interpretation of the law, according to which the Ministry would check compliance with the conditions for granting state aid only on the basis of Act No. 255/2012 Coll., on Control, so-called. the control rules. The aim of the supervision carried out by the Ministry is to ensure, on the one hand, that the participants receive the State aid for the construction savings to which they are entitled and, on the other hand, that the State aid granted to the construction savings is repaid by the Ministry by the construction savings banks if the right to provide it has ceased, respectively. It didn't come out at all. The further amendment concerns the adjustment of the deadline for the submission of an application by a savings bank for the payment of State aid advances. In the current legislation, this deadline was incorrectly set only by a decree, which the amendment of the law corrects and brings the regulation directly into the law. At the same time, the time limits for the recovery of State aid by the Ministry of Construction are adjusted so as to bring the time limits into line at the end of the month and allow the public savings banks to repay the State aid in bulk. So far, they have been returned individually during the month, depending on when the construction savings bank finds that the participant has lost the right to payment of advances of State aid. The amendment extends the circle of loved ones, which will thus be able to provide a loan from building savings to finance housing needs, including to registered partner. This will eliminate unjustified discrimination against these persons. A range of administrative offences is extended for breach of the use of the bridge loan pursuant to § 5 para. 5 of the Building Savings Act, other than the reimbursement of the cost of solving housing needs. Until now, the law has sanctioned only the unauthorized use of the building savings loan. From the position of Parliament's rapporteur, I recommend that the Government's bill be released for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-011-038.u5	Thank you. I am opening up a general debate and asking who is applying for it. I'm not registering any applications. If that is the case, I am done with the general debate. I refer to the final words of the appellant and, where appropriate, the rapporteur. It's not like that. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? That is not the case, in which case we shall proceed to the vote. I will read the motion for a resolution on which we will vote: who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee? Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 227. 126 Members registered, for proposal 109, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I wonder if anyone has a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees for discussion. I see no one, in which case, since there has been no proposal to shorten the time limit for the hearing, I am ending the discussion of this proposal. I'm opening another point, and that's the point.
