ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-005-032.u1	32. Government bill on public procurement / House print 637/ - second reading I ask the Minister for Regional Development Karla Šlechtová to present this press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-005-032.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I presented to you the Government Bill on Public Procurement at the first reading of the law held last November. I'd just like to remind you of the meaning of the law and why we processed it. The new law is a significant change compared to the current regulation and shifts public procurement in a pan-European modernization trend. It is important that the new rules are clear, and so we want to prevent, among other things, a systematic amendment, as in the present Act No. 137/2006 Sb., on public procurement, which is really his biggest problem. Our new law - it is not an amendment, it is really a new law - is more brief and there is a change in the systematics so that the law is more transparent, and it goes from general to concrete. This is really a big amendment to the law, which represents how public contracts are to be awarded in the Czech Republic. I would also like to remind you that this is an important standard and the aim of this law is to ensure fair rules for the selection of suppliers. Just fair and even competitions can achieve efficiency and efficiency in public investment. The bill significantly reduces bureaucracy, both for the contracting authority and for candidates and suppliers. At the same time, procurement procedures will be significantly more flexible. Of course, strengthening flexibility also brings a strengthening of the responsibility of the contracting authority and, on the other hand, the law is intended mainly for those who want to enter economically and efficiently. The proposal submitted was subject to a very strong debate and a very long discussion during the preparation and discussion of the committees. Although there are many conflicting interests in public procurement, our efforts to ensure that the rules are balanced, on the one hand, strongly fulfilling the principle of transparency, but at the same time allowing for a flexible approach already mentioned. We are very well aware of the risk that this is a new standard and can be expected to be a natural mistrust of everyone to whom the law is addressed. Of course, we will absolutely not prevent this, but for smaller contracts the rules remain essentially the same, so we do not change the limits for the smallest contracts and at the same time the contracting authority - for example, in the so-called simplified sub-limit procedure, the rules are also essentially identical - on the other hand, it will have many new options for its decision on how it will proceed. The bill was discussed in three committees of the Chamber of Deputies. The amendment law, which will change in connection with the adoption of the new Public Procurement Act, was discussed in parallel with it. The draft law on public procurement has been subject to discussion in committees, for which I would like to thank all Members present on all committees very much. Some of the amendments that we have adopted are really improving the law. At the same time, I would like to thank you for your active participation in the group of Members and Senators, which I have established through and through all the political spectrum of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Czech Republic. Your suggestions and experience have been stimulating to us and you know that we have accepted many of them. The committee discussions resulted in the recommendation of the Committees to approve the law, but in the wording of the proposed amendments. In view of the number of amendments I am talking about, this is 13 for the Economic Committee, 5 for the Constitutional Committee and 152 for the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, which was and is the Guarantee Committee for this Act. I would like to mention some of the issues that have been most discussed here. Amendment of contract, additional work, very discussed § 222, in a simplified way 30 % or 50 %. The big debate is being held and there have been changes to the treaty. The subject of the debate is whether we will tighten the rules laid down by the directives at national level. The Ministry of Regional Development expressed a neutral position on these changes, since the reasons are legitimate and are not against the directives. The Ministry of Regional Development is prepared to support a solution that will achieve a broader consensus. We consider a reasonable compromise to be a solution whereby a single change of 50 per cent will be allowed, but at the same time the sum of all changes will not exceed 30 per cent of the entire value of the contract. Another topic discussed was an increase in the small-scale concession limit from 20 million to 100 million. In principle, the Ministry of Regional Development cannot and will not agree with the proposal for an increase in the limit for a limit where there is no need to award concessions under the law. This is a change to one of the essential parameters of the law. The Ministry of Finance also disagrees with the increase in this area. In this case, there is a risk that contracting entities will set up contracts to become concessions so that they can enter up to 100 million without competition. That is impossible and unacceptable for us. Another topic discussed was property structure, respectively. real owners. The Government's proposal introduces the contracting authority's obligation to identify for the winner the property structure up to the actual owners. We will not agree with the proposals to delete this obligation, which also appeared in the amendments, and we are prepared to support the proposal to clarify the way in which the property structure is demonstrated. Another topic that has been discussed a lot is the so-called book shares. The government proposal for our new law assumes that only those companies with book shares will be able to apply for public contracts in the case of public limited liability companies. However, a different approach to foreign suppliers must be applied here, for which the requirement for compulsory bookkeeping was considered discriminatory, since their legal order does not have to count on it. The same approach is contained in the Act on Supported Energy Resources, whose adjustment was an inspiration for the Government's proposal on the recommendation of the Government of the Czech Republic. [[14.40 hours]] Another issue that appeared on the Constitutional Legal Committee is the ban on the participation of government members in public procurement. This is a proposal contrary to European law, it is a decision of the Court of Justice of Greece and it is a closed case. This judgment states that the list of grounds for exclusion from a public contract is limited to those grounds which are listed in the Directive and that a Member State cannot lay down further grounds for exclusion. In the Greek case, the Constitution directly prohibited the participation in public procurement by companies owned by a person who is also the owner of the media. The Court of First Instance held that such a measure was disproportionate because these companies did not even have the opportunity to demonstrate that there was no conflict of interest. Therefore, it is not possible to automatically prohibit participation in public procurement to those suppliers owned by, for example, a member of the government. If it turns out that such a supplier is in conflict of interest, then the bill allows such a supplier to be excluded in the absence of a more moderate measure. The Government's bill addresses this issue, and widely, in provisions on conflicts of interest, and more closely and strictly than the current regulation of the Public Procurement Act. The contracting authority shall always be obliged to exclude persons in conflict of interest from the decision-making process or influence on the procurement. If, on the basis of information on the actual owners of the selected supplier, it finds a conflict of interest, the selected supplier must - it must exclude. Another topic discussed was the subsidized contracting authority. The Ministry of Regional Development will continue to support the government proposal on the subject of the selection procedure, on the grounds that their contract is subsidised from public budgets, i.e. a wider range of mandatory persons than the directives require. This position was repeatedly supported by the Ministry of Finance. So our ministry will not support the proposals that narrow this circle of people. The only exception is a person who receives subsidies from a foreign state's budget and the contract is implemented outside the territory of the European Union, which addresses the issue of non-profit organisations' activities in crisis areas. We also discussed the amount of the fee for the complaint to the Antimonopoly Office, the ÚOHS, the Office for the Protection of Competition, which is also a co-president of this law. An amendment has emerged which proposes introducing a fee for the complaint to the UOHS. The Ministry of Regional Development considers the amount of CZK 1000 to be appropriate, but the amendment envisages CZK 10,000. Here we believe that the amount is really very high, and it is the amount for each initiative. We believe that this amount could also be called unconstitutional, as it would completely hinder the possibility of filing the complaint. Moreover, the fee is non-refundable. We also discussed, and it was also very publicized, the question of the involvement of companies that employ disabled or handicapped persons. With regard to the advantages of disabled employers, the Ministry of Regional Development will base its proposal on a government proposal to remove the automatic advantage of protected workshops or similar employers by reducing prices by 15 per cent in the evaluation of offers. This institute has been very abused. However, in our law, this is balanced by a wider possibility of taking into account the so-called social impact on the performance of the public contract in setting the conditions for the procurement procedure, such as the number of handicapped employees in the performance of a certain type of contract and so on. Next, we were dealing with commodity exchanges. An amendment was discussed in the Guarantee Committee, which dealt with the possibility of proceeding in the negotiated procedure without publishing on commodity exchanges. This issue has also been addressed in government discussions. On this issue, the Ministry of Regional Development will respect the position of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which is the gesture of the Act on Commodity Exchanges. We have two contradictory amendments. One of them allows purchases on commodity exchanges in the management of the so-called JŘBU, negotiated procedures without publication, only without intermediaries, and the other allows the intermediary's proposal, but only provided that their remuneration is governed by a pre-published price list. In this case, the Ministry of Regional Development will seek the opinion of the Ministry of Industry and Trade and will support its position. We also had a topic that appeared at the last minute, publishing over 0.5 million crowns. The amendment tabled introduces an obligation to publish information on the contracting authority's profile in advance on small-scale public procurement over CZK 500 000. The proposal strengthens transparency, the negative impact is an increase in the administration of suppliers. Furthermore, the Authority could be further overwhelmed after the protection of competition. He does not agree with the amendment. It should be noted that most contracting entities already publish these contracts voluntarily, even if the law does not impose this, even contracts with a lower estimated value. Neither does the representatives of the contracting authorities most concerned agree with this proposal, i.e. mayors, through the Union of Towns and Municipalities. We also discussed the area of preliminary action. In the area of review, we are based on a government proposal prepared by the Antimonopoly Office as co-submitor of the law. We fundamentally disagree and will not agree with the proposal to completely abolish the possibility of granting interim measures by the Antimonopoly Office. The possibility of issuing interim measures explicitly requires the award directives. We also discussed the introduction of an exception to the scent of the race. This is a requirement for the extension of the excess exemption provided for in the Directives and cannot be extended. The proposal is therefore in direct conflict with European directives and this proposal will not be supported by the Ministry of Regional Development. Moreover, the exemption could also serve to circumvent the law. The Ministry of Regional Development has given its opinion on all amendments and we are still ready for any discussion and, of course, for debates. I would like to thank you for your attention and thank you for your active participation in the preparation of the whole new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-005-032.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. At first reading, we ordered the proposal to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee, and the press was ordered to the Constitutional Legal Committee and the Committee on Economic Affairs. The resolution of these committees has been delivered to you as prints from 637/1 to 5. I ask that the rapporteur of the guarantee committee and, at the same time, the constitutionally-legal committee, Mr Lukáš Pleticha, take the floor. Please, rapporteur, inform us of the discussion of the proposal in both committees and please also justify the relevant amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-005-032.u4	Mr President, Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen. I would perhaps propose, at the outset, to merge the debate with the following press, 638, because these two are linked. [[turning to the President]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-005-032.u5	Yes. So I propose that we do so only after the rapporteurs have spoken and the debate will be launched. Then it is possible to make this proposal and we will take the appropriate steps. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-005-032.u6	Yes. So the House Press 637, as the Minister has already said, has dealt with committees that have been ordered to do so, while the Guarantee Committee, the Public Administration Committee, has dealt with this press repeatedly. The most important meeting was on 13 January at its 35th meeting, when all the amendments that had in the meantime come to this committee were discussed in detail. It was 120. We have really looked into this in detail for several hours and the result, the proposals that have been passed, are presented in the Houses of Press 637/5. I don't think I'm gonna comment on all the amendments in this case, because there's a lot of them. There was a change in time, there were changes in things that were already mentioned by the Minister, it was a fee for filing to the UOHS, there was a comprehensive discussion about more work and even a system of counting more work, less work. Finally, we have adopted a solution to how you have it in this press. A number of legislative refinements have been made, some mistakes that sometimes happen in such a large work, so that it is also removed. The substantial change was that the deadlines were extended so as to make it clear when the deadlines started running as they continued. Another set of issues that were being dealt with were matters relating to the terms of participation, the conditions of qualification. We also looked at the possibilities of excluding some applicants under what conditions. Qualified conditions were also discussed there. I guess I'm gonna end up commenting on this press because it's really extensive and not all things are that crucial. It's more of a press statement, as submitted by the Ministry. So much for the resolution of the Guarantee Committee, the Public Administration Committee and regional development. [[14.50 hours]] Another committee dealing with this was the Constitutional Committee, which dealt with this on 14 January, where two substantial amendments were adopted. One concerned the possibility of exclusion of a company or tenderer in which a member of the government has 10 %, which the Minister has also commented, and another concerned more work and issues where circumstances occurred during the execution of the contract which could not be foreseen during the award. So you have these resolutions in the House press 673/4. Finally, the third committee which dealt with this House's press was an economic committee which dealt with this press on 13 January -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-005-032.u7	I am very sorry, just for the record - I have here written as Mr Birke's rapporteur, who is excused, so if you are a member of the Economic Committee, you can represent him. If not, at this stage, I need someone from the Economic Committee to take the role of rapporteur. . [[Chairman of the Economic Committee Ivan Pilný takes a written document from the hands of President Jan Hamáček]] I will lend the President the resolution of his own committee. [[Written background falls to the ground.]] I'd bring you the press, but if I get out of my chair, I'll interrupt the meeting. I had to choose this less dignified procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-005-032.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, I would therefore read, as rapporteur of the Economic Committee, the resolution of the Economic Committee which has been adopted on this law and on this House press. Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after hearing the opening words of Deputy Minister for Regional Development Jan Blecha, Jan Birke's report and after a general and detailed debate: Firstly, it recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic discuss and approve the House Press 637 as amended by the amendments approved: 1) in Section 4 paragraph reads: " (2) the contracting authority is a person who uses more than 200 million Czech crowns or more than 50 per cent of the funds provided from the budget of the contracting authority, from the budget of the European Union or from the public budget of a foreign State, except where the contract is executed outside the territory of the European Union." (2) in Article 36 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of 3) in § 36 para. The second sentence of the second sentence shall read: "Where the procurement documents contain information resulting from a prior market consultation, the contracting authority shall identify the information in the procurement documents, the persons involved in the preliminary market consultation and shall indicate all relevant information which was the content of the preliminary market consultation.' 4) in § 153 para. 1 fonts. (a) in points 1 and 2, the words "or gas storage device" shall be deleted; 5) in Section 158, the following paragraph 2 is added: " (2) Paragraph 4 (2) is added. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. paragraphs 2 and 3 shall be referred to as paragraphs 3 and 4. 6) the following Section 160a is inserted after Section 160a: "§ 160a Specific provisions for the public procurement scheme. Paragraph 24 of the second sentence shall not apply to sectoral procurement.' 7) in Section 178, the number of 20 million is replaced by the number of 100 million 8) in § 222 para. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the (c) " (c) the value of the additional works, services or supplies shall not exceed 50 per cent of the original value of the undertaking, if more amendments are made, the sum of the value of any changes referred to in this paragraph shall be decisive" 9) in § 223 para. The first paragraph is replaced by the following: (b) the selected supplier has submitted data, documents, samples or models which did not correspond to the facts and had an impact on the selection of the supplier or' 10) the following Section 259 is inserted after Section 258: "1. The Office shall levy a fee of CZK 1 000 for each contract in respect of which the complaint contains an error for the lodging of the complaint for the initiation of the procedure. 2. Where more than one person has submitted the complaint jointly, the fee referred to in paragraph 1 shall be levied only once. 3. The fee shall be due with the lodging of a complaint on the Office's behalf. 4. If the complaint has not been paid within the time limit referred to in paragraph 3, the complaint shall not be lodged. 5. The fee is not refunded. 6. The exemption from the fee or extension of the time limit for payment of the fee shall not be permitted. 7. The Act on Administrative Fees shall not apply. The other paragraphs are outnumbered. 11) Sections 259 to 278 shall be referred to as Sections 260 to 279 12) in the present section 278 para. (2) the words "in accordance with Section 3 (2)'shall be replaced by the words "in accordance with Section 3 (2) '. 2' shall be replaced by "Article 4 (2) '. 1' 13) in the fourth title of Title 4, the words "without publication" shall be replaced by the words "with publication"; Secondly, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the proposer and legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic, to make legislative technical amendments which do not affect the substance of the proposed law. Thirdly, he instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present a report at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the results of the discussion of this bill in the Economic Committee. Fourth - Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-005-032.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So many speeches by the rapporteurs. I will still read Mrs Semelová's apology, but that is tomorrow from 9 p.m. for work reasons, and Mr Adam is apologizing today from 5 p.m. also for work reasons. I am opening up a debate when I am registering a proposal to merge the debate. There is a factual point. . [[Members of the Pletich outside the microphone say this is a procedural proposal]] If this is a procedural proposal to merge a debate... so I'm registering a procedural proposal, please once again on the microphone, to request that the debate be merged with paragraph 33.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-005-032.u10	Mr President, I propose a procedural proposal for us to merge the debates of the Houses of Press 637 and 638 together, as they are linked.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-005-032.u11	Yes, thank you. So I will sign you all off because there is a request for a new registration, and we will therefore vote that the debate on paragraph 32 will be merged with the debate on paragraph 33, or that we will have a joint debate on these two points. I would like to point out that only a merged general debate, because in a detailed debate it is possible to propose amendments to both prints. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees to merge the general debate with these two prints, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? The vote is 129, registered 107, for 107, against no one. This proposal was adopted. Mrs Kailová has card number 17. So I'm going to interrupt point 32 and I'm going to open point 33, which is
