ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-10-ps2013-042-07-012-131.u1	131. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the Transfer and Sharing of Contributions to the Single Resolution Fund signed in Brussels on 21 May 2014 /German press 324/ - Second reading We discussed this House press on 28 January at the 39th meeting, when we interrupted the debate until the presence of the plaintiff, Vice-President of the Government and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. Please let Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš and Foreign Committee rapporteur Mr Pavel Šrámek take the seats at the rapporteur's table. [[10.10 hours]] I'm asking the Minister if he wants to perform. It's not like that. The rapporteur? [[He doesn't want to.]] So we will now continue the interrupted debate. I have an application for it, Madame. [[Gesticulation on the right.]] So with priority rights, Mr Stanjur, then Mrs Fischerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-10-ps2013-042-07-012-131.u2	Thanks for the word. Unlike the previous contracts, which were almost all standard, this is not standard. I've been doing this before. I have suggested that we do not accede to ratification of this treaty. Among other things, if you read this treaty, I cannot say for myself and for our parliamentary club and for our political party that we are determined to achieve the creation of an integrated financial framework in the European Union, of which the banking union is an essential part. On the contrary. We think it's a wrong concept. I would like to point out that this is going so smoothly today, no one is going to speak up to actually consider this approach responsibly, because when our successors have any further step towards the creation of a banking union, one of the arguments for adoption will be: already in 2016 the Chamber of Deputies agreed. If we don't ratify it, we won't hurt anyone. It is not a treaty which other states would need ratification in the Czech Parliament to function. I believe that our task is to protect our banks, our citizens' deposits in our banks, and not to look at the potential problems of banks in other states. And this is a step towards making Czech taxpayers pay the losses of banks of other states that are not as responsible as banks in the Czech Republic. That is why I recommend for our club that we vote against ratification and leave any debate for the future, because we do not have the euro, we will not have it in the coming years, which is very good, and we will not harm anyone by our opposition. Whoever wants to form a banking union. I do not think so, but if citizens in particular of Western European states want to bail out the banks of the southern wing of the European Union, why not, it is their decision, the decision of their politicians, their parliaments. But we shouldn't be joining it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-10-ps2013-042-07-012-131.u3	Thank you. With priority rights, the Minister of Finance is reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-10-ps2013-042-07-012-131.u4	Thank you for the floor. Basically, I agree with my colleague Stanjura. But I would just like to point out that the signing of this agreement does not give us any responsibilities. And their effectiveness is postponed unless we become members of the banking union. Of course, the discussion of the banking union is a frequent point on the Council of Finance Ministers. And after almost two years, the Czech Republic is working to promote a pilot project on reverse charge and we have managed to get to the agenda with great effort. Now, of course, we'll see what happens to the next ECOFIN. And for me, it's a problem enough to go against the banking union, because it's irrelevant to us. It's none of our business. We do not count on joining the euro. I don't agree with that either, I'm speaking for myself. So I would just like to ask my colleague Stanjura to see some solidarity within the Finance Ministers' meeting, that if we do all the problems there, they will, of course, make trouble for us too. And apparently, it's always unanimity, so all states need approval. I'm not saying we can push it, but we're on our way. Of course, if I were to perform there that we were ignoring it, it would make our position significantly worse. So I just wanted to ask you for some indulgence and perceptive powers. But I agree with what you're saying. We certainly are not considering joining the euro area. It's not the subject of our government. However, we should try to be more cooperative there, if I may say so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-10-ps2013-042-07-012-131.u5	Thank you. I am now registering two factual points. Mr. Stanjura's microphone first, please. Mr Gabal will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-10-ps2013-042-07-012-131.u6	I understand what the Minister of Finance says. I don't want to make his position difficult. In that case, I will make a procedural motion to suspend the negotiations for two months. This creates space. You won't have to confront your colleagues at ECOFIN with the possibly negative report. And if they ask, you can say that this is simply a sensitive question which the Czech Parliament will continue to discuss. That is what I think is an acceptable way out today, unless we want to vote on it, virtually. if the negative outcome of the vote, if any, would affect negotiations on other issues at ECOFIN. So I'm making this procedural proposal to suspend this item by 10 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-10-ps2013-042-07-012-131.u7	Yes. I shall, of course, put it to a vote immediately. Before I do, I'll sign you all off and ask you to re-enlist with your cards. I'll call my colleagues from the lobby. We will vote on Mr Stanjura's proposal to interrupt this point for two months. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 295, to which 124 are registered, for 88, against 20. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted, and I am interrupting this point. Now we're going to look at point number
