ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-018-043.u1	43. Government bill amending Act No. 262/2011 Coll., on Resistance and Resistance to Communism, as amended by Act No. 250/2014 Sb. / House printing 570/ - first reading according to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. Under the authority of the Government, Minister of Defence Martin Stropnickýý will introduce the proposal, which I do not see here, so the second member of the Government is Mr. Jiří Dienstbier. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-018-043.u2	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, the Government, by its resolution on 29 July 2015, approved a bill amending the Act on Resistance and Resistance to Communism. The main impetus to the preparation of this amendment was the uncertainty in practice regarding the process whereby applicants for the certification of a participant in resistance and resistance to communism are often unclear from the current text of the law, which administrative body should turn to with their individual suggestions. The aim of the proposal is to remedy the shortcomings of the law and to fill some of its gaps, as I briefly stated here. The present proposal regulates in particular the procedural provisions of the Act on Resistance and Resistance to Communism and its provisions relating to the status and activities of the Ethics Commission of the Czech Republic for the valuation of resistance and resistance to communism. The proposal specifically addresses the current competence issues between the Ministry of Defence and the Ethics Commission, while, in addition to laying down the Ethical Commission's competence for the review procedure and for the renewal of the procedure, it clearly provides for the competence to deal with appeals against all major decisions of the Ministry of Defence, and otherwise against decisions on the matter, decisions on the suspension of proceedings and decisions on the withdrawal of certificates. By extending the scope of the Ethics Commission, which is now a purely appeal administrative body against the decision of the Ministry of Defence in the case, the decision on proper and extraordinary remedies will thus be unified with one administrative body, which will be more comfortable and processably transparent for applicants to issue a certificate of resistance and resistance to communism. In other cases, that is to say, where these cases are not concerned, the standard procedural role of the Minister of Defence will remain as a superior administrative body towards the Ministry of Defence. The Minister for Defence should therefore decide, in particular, on measures against inactivity and on decompositions against procedural resolutions which do not end the proceedings in the case. The draft law is also intended to fill a gap in the law as regards the definition of integrity and reliability as conditions for the performance of the work of a member of the Ethics Commission and, in order to strengthen the elements of the Commission's independence, it is proposed to explicitly lay down the grounds for the removal of its member. In the end, the Act on Resistance and Resistance to Communism also includes provisions relating to the performance of the activities of members of the Ethics Commission in relation to the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic, which ensures the performance of the Ethical Commission and its other activities professionally, organizationally, financially and materially. In the light of Article 28 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, according to which everyone is entitled to a fair remuneration for the work done, the question of remuneration of members of the Ethics Commission is addressed, and in this respect the draft law assumes that members of the Ethics Commission will be rewarded for their activities on the basis of agreements on non-employment work. I recommend to the Chamber of Deputies to approve the bill. In view of the need to correct quickly with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic the incompatible lack of adjustment of the remuneration for the work done, I also propose, in accordance with the Government's resolution to the Chamber of Deputies, that under § 90 para. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies agreed with the bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-018-043.u3	Thank you, Minister. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading by Mr Karel Černý. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-018-043.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues, Minister Dienstbier has made sufficient clear the reason for the amendment to this law. I will, in particular, recapitulate the basic points of the adjustment that we will decide on in this case. The purpose of the amendment is the legislative refinement of the status of the Ethics Commission and its members in the legal order, based on the knowledge of practice. The current legal relationship contains some inaccuracies and gaps that the amendment removes. It is proposed to clearly determine the scope of the Ethical Commission's powers in administrative proceedings conducted pursuant to Section 6 of Law No. 262/2011 Sb. It is specified which decisions issued may be appealed to the Ethics Committee. The general competence of the Ethics Commission is hereby established to carry out the review procedure or to decide to renew the procedure. This is a more comfortable solution in relation to applicants for the status of a participant in the resistance and resistance to communism, when the Ethics Commission will decide on the appeal, i.e. in a proper appeal against the Ministry's territorial decisions in the case, but will also be responsible for the decision in the proceedings on the renewal of proceedings and the review of the Ministry's territorial decisions. The benefit to the applicant can be found in particular in the Ministry's obligation to inform the applicant of the progress of the proceedings concerning his application. In these cases, there can be a great deal of time to obtain archive documents and to process an opinion. The applicant shall at least be informed of the Ministry's step in which the expert opinion has been requested. Under the provisions of Article 7 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The definition of integrity and reliability as a condition for the performance of the duties of a member of the Ethics Commission In order to strengthen the independence element of the Ethics Commission, it is also proposed to explicitly define the grounds for the appeal of a member of the Ethics Commission during its term of office. The legislation on the legal framework for the remuneration of members of the Ethics Commission for the work done is also added. It can therefore be summed up that the aim of this government proposal is to remedy, more or less, the shortcomings of the current 2011 regulation with regard to the knowledge of practice. At the same time, the Government proposes that this bill be discussed within the meaning of § 90 para. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The acquisition of effectiveness is proposed on the first day of the second calendar month following the publication of the law, taking into account the need to take appropriate measures to put the law into practice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-018-043.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate, in which Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, President Zbyněk Stanjura, Mr Seďa, entered first and foremost. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-018-043.u6	Thank you for the floor. I just want to remind you of the origin of the law. It was last term. Members of the right-wing government voted in favour of this law, and I honestly have to say that most members of the opposition Czech Party voted in favour of the Social Democratic Party. So we have approved this law by a rather pronounced majority. We thought that the legislative path would be quite simple. Sometimes we argue about who the specific law falls upon. So here I think the group is pretty clear. They're participants in the anti-communist resistance. Jim's the law. And we, dear, are speaking for the civil democrats now, and we respected the Confederation of Political Inmates has turned to us by letter, I think, we were not the only ones who got the other club members, when they asked us not to let this happen in the nineties and, if necessary, make some changes, leading us to veto a hearing on behalf of the two MPs, the ODS and the TOP 09 in accordance with Article 90 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2. At the same time, I ask that the time limit for committee discussions be reduced to 30 days. I think that at that time we are able to find the wording of the law, with which the Confederacy of political prisoners will also agree. For them, we write it. We should listen to them and try to find a text with which they will identify and will be happy to approve such an amendment to this Anti-communist Resistance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-018-043.u7	Thank you, and I'm registering the veto. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mr Antonín Seďa. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-018-043.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, fellow Members, I was just about to talk about the notification of the Confederacy of political prisoners, which concerns the first part of Article 1 (6) (1). 3. And I'll make it short. So I support it here to shorten the deadline and not discuss it in the '90s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-09-ps2013-042-06-018-043.u9	Thank you, Mr Seďa. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If no one is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. Not interested. In view of the veto made by President Stanjura, we will address the motion for a commandment to committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering the motion to discuss the Defence and Security Committee - defence as a guarantee committee. I'm asking who else has a proposal for a guarantee committee. It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the commandment to discuss the Defence Committee as a guarantee committee. I've started the vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 279 vote, 142 Members and Members registered, for 118, against one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal is directed to the Defence Committee as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee? It's not like that. There is a proposal to shorten the deadline for 30 days to 30 days, and I have taken a vote on this. Whoever is to shorten the deadline, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 280, 143 Members and Members registered, for 99 against 6. The motion was accepted. I note that the proposal was ordered to the Defence Committee as a guarantee, and we have reduced the deadline for a 30-day hearing. I'm ending reading this bill first. As the 19th hour is approaching and there is no point in opening another point that we would only open and not discuss, I am interrupting the 42nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies by 9 a.m. tomorrow morning, when we will continue with the first reading of the treaties. Have a good evening.
