ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u1	256. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations The first is the interpelation of mine in the matter of the Sudeton German Landsmanshaft print 864. I'm going to request a replacement and report to the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u2	Good morning, dear colleagues. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u3	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to return to my intervention, which I gave to the Prime Minister on a visit to the Minister of Culture on Sudeten German days. At the interview, the Prime Minister replied that it is not true that, in an interview for the Law diary of 21 May this year, we need Sudeten Němec as allies for risks in Europe and that he said that Minister Herman attended a convention in Nuremberg is proof that we want to focus on the future. It is the task of our generation to seek common ground. The risks facing Europe are many. We need allies to handle them. I must say that I was disillusioned because if the sovereign government of the Czech Republic is to look for partners in civil associations, I think that is not the direction we should take. It is, of course, possible for ministers of the Government of the Czech Republic to meet with ministers of the Federal Republic of Germany as well as with ministers of individual Länder. This is, of course, a question of their comfortable behaviour, whether they want to do so or if the representatives of our regions will do so. But, of course, I don't expect any of us to think that a partner for a member of the government is some kind of civil society. As regards the matter relating to this association, I see as a possible partner for the search for future relations between the Czech Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany at that federal level, for example, the association of expelled citizens of the Czech Republic or the former Czechoslovakia, from the borderlands in 1938. Surely they have something to say about what took place between 1938-39 and after 1945. That's logical. In this respect, when two civic associations, the Czech association, the German association, argue about what their history was and how to emerge from history, it certainly is an interesting achievement. As a result, in the past the Czech Republic, when it implemented the 1992 contract, it sent its representatives to the fund of the future and such representatives were also members of the KSČM, who worked there in a rather constructive way, I think. But it is true that it is not possible for us to deal with this by the fact that, as the newspapers in the Federal Republic of Germany wrote, it is a question of the Czech Government's helpfulness to the Sudeten German association and their interests. What I fundamentally disagree with in reply to the interpelation is the incorrect interpretation that was made there, namely that the Sudeten German association gave up territorial claims against the Czech Republic. I recall that the new statutes which were adopted were not approved by the German Supreme Administrative Court, so the statutes that were before the last meeting apply. I have pointed that out, and I therefore believe that this is not good in this regard. [[9.10 hours]] Then I was dissatisfied with how the Collegium Bohemicum Foundation works, which, in a way, is unable to cope with, for example, the control of the Supreme Audit Office with how it handles money. I asked how it was possible that Master Šícha and Master Mouralová Mouralová worked among the advisors of the Prime Minister and how the Prime Minister dealt with it. That is why I have also responded in one of the previous debates, because it has been many days since May before I have had my own discussion of the reply to my written interpelation, when the finding of Supreme Audit Office 14/10 concerned precisely the treatment of public funds, i.e. taxpayers' money in this area. I understand that Minister Herman was not responsible for this at the time, I do not question this because it was a control that concerned the funds that were carried out through this foundation to the Federal Republic of Germany, which means that the Czech funds, the money of the Czech taxpayers, actually ended up in German hands, not in a small amount, and in this respect, I believe it is wrong to avoid answering these matters. I am convinced, and so far without any political context, that Czech taxpayers' money should serve, in particular, to expand the possibilities of Czech national culture in our territory so that possible joint projects can be conceived in such a way that the funds flow from both the Czech Republic and Germany as regards the joint project, not as they were. In this respect, I was dissatisfied with the answer, because it does not indicate that the government of the Czech Republic respected the principle of sovereignty and the principle of equal treatment. Again, the main clause I have is that the Prime Minister did not reply to me whether he expressly agreed to the visit of Minister Herman on these days of Sudeton Germanism, or whether it was only with his consent or with his knowledge and in what manner the task was assigned, so that the Minister of the Government of the Czech Republic would be there or not. In this respect, I consider the participation of Minister Daniel Herman in these days as a spit in the face of all the victims of World War II who died in the fight against Nazi Germany. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u4	Thank you, Prime Minister. Prime Minister, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u5	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would first of all like to say clearly that it is important to distinguish between the Nazis and the Sudeten Němec, given the conclusion made by Mr Filip. There were a number of Sudeten Němec who went to the concentration camps first. When, on the basis of the Munich agreement, the disgraceful Munich agreement that trampled on international law, the Nazis occupied the borderlands, not only did Czechoslovak citizens have to flee this border, but very often the Sudeten Němec, who were anti-fascists, also fled from this border. They were Christian Democrats, they were Social Democrats, they were Communists. Among the Sudeten Němec were a number of people who enlisted when mobilization was in 1938, so a number of Sudeten Němec enlisted in this mobilization. They were ready to defend the Czechoslovak Republic. Once again, they were anti-fascists, Communists, Social Democrats, Christian Democrats. And when Hitler came in 1938 in the fall, these people, when they didn't escape, went to the concentration camp first, went to the prisons first. When the people on the eastern front were chosen, these people went first to the eastern front. It was just the reality of what was happening at the border. I would really like to ask that we do not put an equal between the Sudeten Němec and the fascists. Secondly, when it came to moving away, of course, some of the Němec could stay, but many of them left, even though they could stay, because their families were leaving, their relatives were leaving, the people they knew, and they couldn't imagine that in that heated environment after the war, when logically people were - after what was happening here, after the thousands of dead people who were murdered here, the Czech-German relations in the spring of 1945 were completely destroyed and reflected in each other in the worst possible way. A number of Němec simply couldn't imagine staying here in that heated atmosphere in 1945, even though they could stay, because perhaps they were among those Němec who didn't have to leave. I really want to ask that we do not apply the principle of collective guilt. When applied often against us, please do not apply it to others. There are several organizations in Germany that bring together the Sudeten Němec. I want to remind you that there is an organization that brings together exiled or displaced Social Democrats, there is an organization that brings together Christian Democrats, and then, of course, there are more radical associations of Sudeten Němec. But here we are talking about the Sudeten German compatriotic association and I think and I believe that the development - and I do not want to comment at all on the statements of the Sudeten German compatriotic association in the 1970s, 1980s, 1990s, but let us talk about what is happening there today - is positive because the current leadership of the Sudeten German compatriotic association is already trying to change the statutes for the second time so that it is in line with the reality of the post-war arrangement in Europe. They simply want those statutes to respect that today the war is over, that there is some arrangement here, that we are part of the European Union, and they have already proposed twice that they launch the objectives of an organisation that talks about entitlement to return to their homeland. So they want to waive the right to return to their homeland from the statutes and to waive the right to return property or full compensation or compensation for confiscated property. This means that they want to release this part of the statutes as well. This is positive in relation to respect for post-war reality and in relation to the position that the Czech Government, the Czech Republic, has on the inviolability of the conditions brought about by the Benešův Decrees and the fact that Benešův Decrees are part of our legal order. So this is a positive process, and the visit of Minister Herman to this meeting was an appreciation of this positive process and was a support of this positive process. As I was informed by Mr Herman, Mr Herman has been involved in these events in the past. This time it was the first time as a member of the government, and it was with my consent. My consent was given because I wanted to support the positive trends that today represent the leadership of this organization in relation to the Czech Republic. It is true that the amendment to the statutes has not yet been approved, because there is, of course, a conservative part that lives in the past, has unrealistic claims, unacceptable claims, and tries to block this amendment to the statutes. This means that within this organization there is a dispute between a new generation that does not want to return to property claims, and those who simply have a different idea and try to prevent change. That's why this thing is in court again. And it's probably gonna have to be decided by the court, but given the second time this change has been proposed, I still see it as a signal that needs to be read. And I would definitely beg, I would certainly beg, that this government has done anything - anything - to question the memory of the victims of Nazism. [[9.20 hours]] I myself participated last year in a series of events that commemorated the 70th anniversary of the defeat of Nazism in Europe. And when I was visiting in Munich, I didn't just meet with the Bavarian Prime Minister, but I also honored the anti-fascist Olga Sippl. And I also bowed to the memory of the German anti-Nazi resistance from the White Rose student organization. And I also visited a place in Munich where the shameful Munich Agreement was signed and where for the first time in history it was placed and there is a memorial plaque that reminds of this shameful event and reminds it both in Czech and Slovak. So I'm trying to make sure we don't forget. History must be perceived as it has happened. It must be perceived that there was a cause and that there was a consequence. And that it was Nazi Germany, which at the time acted aggressively against Czechoslovakia, until it destroyed it. In view of the powers, Nazi Germany destroyed Czechoslovakia. And it was the Nazis who occupied the rest, and it was the Nazis who spent many years here, for many years trying to destroy the Czech nation. Only then did the push come. It wasn't the other way around. First, the occupation, the break-up of Czechoslovakia, Nazi terror, the Holocaust, the persecution of Czech patriots, and only then was the displacement and Benešův Decrees as a response to the horrors of World War II and as a response to the Nazi occupation. That's just the way it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u6	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now, who's next for the debate? Before anyone comes forward, I'll say I'm sorry. My colleague Václav Vozka from 14:00 to 19:00 and from 9:00 to 10:00, Mr Kaňkovský. Mr Miroslav Grebeníček is now reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u7	Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the performance of Minister of Culture Daniel Herman at this year's Sudeten German Assembly has given rise to various responses. It is said that only communists have sharply defined themselves against his participation in this House. He's got a point. Unlike the situation in Germany, Czech citizens and their descendants from the Czechoslovak borderlands occupied by Munich have no support either in the media or in other parliamentary parties. Where are the times when even the right-wing opposition took advantage of the House meeting and attacked then Minister of Justice Helena Válková for her comments about the Sudeten Němec and the life of the Čech in the Protectorate. Yes, it was an answer to the question of what they thought about moving the Němec. I would like to remind myself of her answer: the worst. I understand it was a reaction to what happened to the Čech before, but it didn't do much in the Protectorate. I'm offering you, there was a Member who called at the time that I would explain to you, as a historian, what was really going on in the territory of the Protectorate, and then you'd be ashamed to say such things in the first place. Perhaps it would remind her of the words of former Henleinist Member of the Czech Parliament, Krebs, who declared following Nazi crimes in Lidice: The German population in Bohemia welcomed Lidice with great satisfaction and in many cases with open joy that officials in high places will finally understand how to treat Čech. Yes, already in the 1930s, for the vast majority of the Sudeten Němec, the great German empire of the mad leader Adolf Hitler became attractive. No, I don't want to grade anyone. Personally, I am interested in ensuring that there is peace in the centre of Europe and new values of life in humanism are born. And I also say that no one needs to reconcile us with decent Němec. However, I consider it wrong to describe all the war or postwar forced movements of the German population by the word of expulsion. Not only to the Čech, but to every reasonable person, it should be clear that this concept cannot be used as a summary for the various events surrounding escape and migration that took place at the end of World War II. They were refugees, they were evacuated, they were violently evicted, they were deported. The term banishment of different motives and forced situations obscures. The Sudeten Němec often claim to have faced the banishment of the century. I admit that the loss of a country is undoubtedly a painful matter. But there's something worse, and that's getting out of life. After all, there is a fundamental difference when deporting trains end up in the Auschwitz Bank or in the border transfer camp in Germany or Austria. Some went to their deaths, others went to their new homeland. I believe that we should not forget the fundamental historical context. And we should also look at every question from the point of view of how the phenomenon has historically arisen, what its own stages in its development have been going through, and from the point of view of its development, look at what the matter has become now. For example, the Catholic Church in Germany used nearly 6,000 forced laborers during Nazism. This results from the publication Forced Deployment and the Catholic Church from 1939 to 1945, introduced by Cardinal Karl Lehmann in Mainz on 8 April 2008. Yes, between 1939 and 1945, 4 829 foreign civilians and 1 075 prisoners of war were forced into church facilities. In hospitals, monasteries, fields, woods and cemeteries, the church mainly abused Polák and citizens of the Soviet Union. Cardinal Lehmann also admitted that this was not a final balance and that the Catholic Church had been blind to the fate of these steps for too long. I understand that. Unlike the activities of President of the Sudeten German Landsmanshafft Bernd Posselt, who do not give much evidence that he and his supporters are a direct act of admission of guilt, respect for victims and an act of reconciliation. In such a case, he would have to address his supporters in the same language at their meetings, where he constantly blathers or demands the abolition of the so-called Benešův Decrees, which established the property and national arrangements of our homeland or our country after the defeat of Fascist Germany. [[9.30 hours]] According to some German journals, even Winston Churchill was a war criminal. Reason? Because his government decided to retaliate in response to the German bombing of English cities during World War II. In fact, a call was published to acknowledge the suffering suffered by the Němec in bombing the land of Anglo-American air unions. Indeed, among the Němec there was a belief that they too were victims of war, even though it all began with Germany. The problem is that it was the Němec who came up with the tactics of bombing intimidation. For example, I refer to Coventry, Rotterdam or Warsaw. Yes, they literally wiped out entire cities, and that certainly preceded British actions. And to make the Němec say Churchill or Beneš are war criminals, that's a very strong coffee. As one of the three victorious powers, the United Kingdom, next to the United States and Russia, has rejoined a postwar decision that would make it impossible to repeat crimes committed in Europe and the world by German fascism, thereby confirming the immutability or indisputability of the Potsdam Conference's decisions. Edvard Beneš is undoubtedly a historically conditional figure. He was undoubtedly responsible for the creation of the Czechoslovak Republic. Just remind Masarykův of the words: "We shouldn't have a republic without Beneš." Beneš, however, also had a share in the undignified way of her demise in 1938. In the second year of the Protectorate, the American diplomat commented on the gig in Prague: "It is terrible to imagine the Čech' retaliation if fortune turns around." Yes, in seven years, our former German fellow citizens have been guilty of the protectorate against us in such a way that there was no other settlement than a delay. However, we cannot blame former President Beneš for this. I remember the former Prime Minister Vladimír Špidla, who, when he left for the Brussels newsroom, was still referring to the move of the guilty Němec as a source of peace and hope for our republic. After his return from Brussels, however, he expressed himself in the sense that the Czech Republic could solve its problems by joining the Federal Republic of Germany as a 17th country. And he added to the astonishing audience that he would not oppose it personally. Yes, Vladimír Špidla is Chief Advisor to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. He is also advised by Blanka Mouralová and Jan Šícha. Both have very close relations with representatives of so-called. The Sudeten German Landsmanshaft. It was because of them that Prime Minister Sobotka realized that we need Sudeten Němec as allies due to risks in Europe. So he agreed with the Czech Minister's first official visit to the Sudeten German Assembly. Yes, it is Minister Daniel Herman, who then expressed himself at the Christian Democratic Institute's seminar on 24 October this year that some felt that we could, in theory, be one of Germany's federal states. This would mean, however, the rejection of Masarykův Czechoslovakia and other unprecedented support for the Catholic Church of the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft. If anyone wants us to apologize constantly for the postwar displacement of the Němec, they actually ask for an apology for our decision for the Masarykův State, because that's where it all began. Yes, the alliance of the throne and the altar, which is being tried again today, has ended. And Prime Minister Sobotka, not only thanks to his advisors, is largely continuing where Nečasův' government ended infamously. I wish the citizens of the Czech Republic would definitely calculate it next year. Ladies and gentlemen, British historian Martin Brown, who lectured history at the American International University of London and long-term engaged in post-war movements of Němec, said in 2004 that Communists played a role in shaping the ideas of displacement. He then důrazně warned against concluding that whatever the Communists were saying was wrong. According to him, this does not necessarily lead to the duke that the opposite of their position is true. At the same time, he also mentioned that the second part of the displacement was carried out mainly by the American army, mostly under the supervision of the Red Cross and often in the presence of the foreign press. And that's all I wanted to tell you about my colleague Filip's written interview with Prime Minister Sobotka. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u8	I thank Mr Grebeníčk. Who's next for the debate? Please, colleague Jiří Valenta. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u9	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. It will not allow me to respond to some of Prime Minister Sobotka's claims regarding his interpretation of the Sudeten German border before World War II. I would like to remind him that a huge amount, of course, was not each of the Sudeten Němec inclined to Nazism, but it was really a huge amount. And to claim that there was a large number of anti-fascists is more or less a historical lie. So now let me quote something from the scientific sources, because the Communist opinion will probably not be considered relevant in this regard. During 1938, the number of members of the Sudetendeutsche Partei continued to grow. While in January 1938 the party had about 542 thousand. members, so by March their number rose to 759 289. The Sudetendeutsche Partei was joined in some places even by the old Čech, arguing that this is how they must protect their families. Economic and social pressure has also contributed to the increase in the number of party members. "Live as a Nazi in Sudeten County was pure heroism." British journalist Sheila Grant Duffová said that in 1938. In May 1938 the party members were already 1,320,193 Sudeten Němec. Given the number of residents of Sudeten, who were slightly over 3 million according to the 1930 census, the number of members of the party can thus be described as extremely high. Until May 1, 1938, Sudetendeutsche Partei organized many public demonstrations attended by a large number of Sudeten Němec. As you know, the largest demonstrations took place in Ústí nad Labem, Děčín with the participation of 70,000, 55,000 people. The demonstrations called the passwords Ein Reich, Ein Volk, Ein Führer and greeted Sieg Heil and Heil Hitler. [[9.40 hours]] Quote: "Sudetendeutsche Partei is quite openly showing its anti-state and national socialist character. In general, an early connection to the Third Reich is envisaged. The passive behaviour of the state authorities confirms this assumption. Almost all German state and public officials entered the Sudetendeutsche Partei because they do not want to miss the moment of connection." This is a quote from the report by the Frydlant official Sudetendeutsche Partei of May 7, 1938. Finally, and now listen, Prime Minister, after the Munich dictation, the Sudetendeutsche Partei was incorporated by the NSDAP. The official merger took place on 30 October 1938 and Konrad Henlein was promoted to SS Gruppenführer, appointed County Head of the NSDAP, later also as the Reich Governor of the newly established Sudetengau County with its headquarters in Liberec. And as we are all sitting here, I think we all know what the NSDAP was for the political party and where its activities were headed for the future during World War II. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u10	Thank you. I'm asking who's next for the debate. Prime Minister. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u11	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that if we compare the figures that my previous speaker mentioned here in 1938 - 1938, let us be aware of what it was a year ago, for five years now Hitler was the Chancellor of the Reich - it was not certain how it would turn out with Czechoslovakia. Germany was aggressive, going to Czechoslovakia, or at least border, to occupy. England hesitated, France hesitated. Eventually, they left us behind when the Munich deal was made. And accuse people of acting in any way? Let us compare similar figures in 1938 concerning the Sudeten Němec, and in 1948 the Communist Party concerned what was the increase in the number of members of the Communist Party after February 1948, as people flocked there. There were people from different political parties, non-partisans. I don't want to blame them. A lot of people went there out of fear because they didn't know what was going to happen. Many worried about the job, wanted to feed their families, so they simply went to the Communist Party in 1948. A lot of people went there for profit. They just knew that this would be a regime now and that they would make a better career if they went into the Communist Party. Similarly, the number of members of the Communist Party grew after the 1948 coup. And I say, I don't want to blame these people. I don't want us to have a debate here at the moment. I'm just saying that the image of the Sudeten Němec here is depicted by the Communist Party in black and white, that it wasn't real. And I want to stand up for those brave people who lived in the borderlands, there were Němec, they felt Němec, but they were Democrats. They were Democrats. And they defended Czechoslovakia, although it must have been terrible for them because they were often in a minority in their cities, villages, houses, were in a minority and defended Czechoslovakia, defended democracy, joined the Nazis. They remained Social Democrats, or they remained Christian Democrats, or they were communists. They were German communists. You shouldn't be denying this. There were German communists who didn't support Henlein, they didn't support the breakup of Czechoslovakia. Many of these people enlisted - enlisted - when mobilization was in 1938 and were ready to defend Czechoslovakia, the Czechoslovak Republic with a gun in their hand in forts. So please, let's not tell each other the truth here. I understand that when the situation was in 1938, a lot of people joined in fear, from the boom, they joined in, they went with the crowd, a lot of people got fanatical. A large part of the Němec got fanatized by the Nazis. That wasn't just about the Sudeten Němec. It was about the Němec in general. They got fanatized. The trials looked similar in 1948 when a little different totalitarianism came in. And I would really like to ask that we tell each other the historical truth so that we don't deform these things just because it currently serves some political argument or some political attack that we should be leading here. I want to repeat clearly and decisively: this government, in its policy on Sudeten Němec, is based on the Czech-German Declaration, which was approved in this Chamber of Deputies in 1997. We have come out of this, and we have also defended it during our accession to the European Union that the Benešův Decrees are part of our legal order. And we're based on how history took place, what was the cause and what was the result. We do not deform historical truth and we do not approach any interpretation that would deny the victims of Nazism that were here in the Czech Republic. Of course, I disagree with the statement that was mentioned here, which I believe said, I don't know if it was Mrs. Válková or who said it, and I think she regretted it herself, the misinterpretation. It's just not possible to counter what went on here as a protectorate or as a Nazi occupation. Anyone who does something like that is lying. We know what happened here, that there was a Holocaust, that democrats, supporters of the Czechoslovak Republic, were persecuted, that there was a communist resistance. But there was also a strong non-communist resistance, which was then denied after the war as if it didn't exist, especially after 1948. The history of the 20th century was complicated. I want to say, first of all, that I bet on the young generation, I bet on the new generation, that the young generation will not allow what our fathers and grandfathers experienced in the 20th century to be repeated. That is why it is extremely important that we have the European Union, that it guarantees peace in Europe, and that it prevents those raging nationalism, including German nationalism, from coming back, from threatening stability in Central Europe. I very much care that we have good relations with our neighbours, with the Slovák, Polák, Rakušan, Němec, to live here in peace, to work together here in Central Europe, so as not to return to the furies of the 20th century. At the same time, it is important to respect the historical truth, respect the victims, the bravery of the people who fought against Nazism, against fascism, but also the bravery of the people who opposed injustice during Communist totalitarianism, and to say and tell history as it really did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u12	That was the Prime Minister. Now Minister of Culture Daniel Herman. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u13	Thank you. Mr President, fellow Members, since I have been addressed indirectly, Mr Grebeníček, I would like to explain here what I should have said at that seminar on 24 October. As I recall, I've already spoken about it here in the interpellations once. At that seminar, I said that, economically, if we just took the numbers, we could be one of the federal states. Probably by mistaken transcription or by misheard it, someone wrote that I said theoretically. I understand that words sound purely phonetically similar economically and theoretically. So I'm just explaining here that I didn't say theoretically, but economically. And I insist. But if I have the opportunity to comment on this question, as you know, I have also mentioned it a few times, I come from a family that carried on its body in a very personal way the horrible crimes of national socialism, but also communism. This means that I have not only studied some theoretical reports or drew, say, from the press, although the period is also an interesting source. But for example, my uncle Jiří Brady, who was so mediated, still bears the number of Auschwitz hell that survived on his left arm. And he wasn't the only one in our family. This means that I have had and still have the opportunity to talk to people who have experienced what we are talking about. And I am indeed a conscious advocate of dialogue and reconciliation. It must not be forgotten. Those are crimes that have happened and are inexhaustible. But we belong to the family of European nations. And we are not the only country that had to deal with Nazi heritage. Let us consider how the settlement took place between France and Germany, between Holland and Germany, between Denmark and Germany. [[9.50 hours]] I have been invited since 1997 to participate in the work of the Coordination Board of the Czech-German Discussion Forum, where I am meeting today, on the basis of a declaration signed next year, which will celebrate the 20th anniversary, so I was invited by my respected predecessor, Pavel Tigrid. And one of the central projects of this council then was a comparison of the legislation of individual European countries, as they dealt with the question of Nazis, Němec, collaborators. This comparison clearly shows that the countries that decided to follow the path of free and democratic development after World War II dealt with this issue by political optics. So whoever was guilty, who was collaborating with the Nazis, was rightly punished regardless of their ethnic origin. While countries that became part of the Soviet power zone went through the optics of ethnicity, i.e. regardless of the personal guilt or innocence, who was the origin of German or Hungarian Czechoslovakia, was affected. Again, I can document this on the basis of my own family, when some of my relatives, German-speaking žid who survived Nazism, were taken away after the war as so-called Sudeten Němec - into parentheses luckily for them to Western Germany. I want to underline what the Prime Minister mentioned here. There is no equality between ethnic and political affiliation. When we mean Nazis, it's wrong to say Němec. Yes, most of the Sudeten German population, or they themselves, even a hundred years ago, would probably not understand what they meant, simply the German population of Bohemia, Moravia and Silesia, unfortunately, on the basis of fear and later terror, joined this Nazi propaganda and also politically organized, but a small percentage of them, just in 1939, were about 20,000 people, as has already been said, affected by Nazism. About what Mr Grebeníček said about the prisoners who worked in the service of the Church in Germany. I didn't specialize in this question, but after all, I've read and heard about it. I know that some church institutions at that time deliberately wanted to employ captives to facilitate a very difficult fate, and they were also thanked for it after the war, just as many Jewish families were saved thanks to the helpfulness of, for example, the clausor monasteries. And not only on the territory of Germany, but also on the territory of some other Nazi countries or fascists controlled. I could speak here again on the basis of experience from my own family, when my grandmother saved a Jewish girl from her imprisonment, who, after my grandmother's imprisonment, found asylum in a Catholic monastery and survived the war. In addition to the German anti-fascist opposition camp, Dachau was also founded as a concentration camp for the clergy. There were thousands of clergymen not only from Germany but also from Czechoslovakia. Unfortunately, there were such terrible things that the Nazis crucified some priests every year on Good Friday. That was a terrible bloody theater. I don't want to talk about it here, you can imagine. It may be interesting that it is from the mouth of the Communist Members that these thesissies are heard here, because, for example, two prominent prisoners from Dachau, later cardinals Josef Beran and Štěpán Trochta, after World War II, after the Communists came to power in our country, again victims - this time communist repression. As after 1948, a number of Czechoslovak soldiers who fought against Nazism in the ranks of, for example, the British army, the air force was imprisoned along with Nazi war criminals in the same cells. These are also testimony that tells us what kind of relationship the Communist regime had in dealing with its own past. I am here calling for reconciliation, friendship, dialogue without forgetting in the spirit of David Ben Gurion, who, in this sense, spoke in the 1950s in the Bundestag and spoke about the need to look for the future. Again, we must not forget, but we must distinguish and live in the present, not in the past. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u14	That was Minister Daniel Herman. I'm asking who's next for the debate. I want to sign up, but I can't do that because I don't have anyone here to replace me. Please, Miroslav Grebeníček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u15	Dear ladies and gentlemen, when the Němec, who were moved from Poland after World War II, responded as follows: Why wouldn't we start since 1772, when Prussia attacked Poland and began Germanizing Polish territory? The requirements of displaced persons are equally unfounded, and yet most people who make demands have not been expelled. These are children or grandchildren banished. Why do I say that? Because I like the many ideas that Prime Minister Sobotka has presented here. I'm just missing concrete practical steps. For example, when the head of the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft hears that Beneš is a criminal and that they do not recognize Benešův's decrees, I have never heard any of the coalitions of government say: "This is what we categorically reject! I've never heard that before. When I hear this, I will say that they are serious about our Republic and that they want to defend the rights of citizens of the Czech Republic! Dear people, after World War II the Czechoslovak citizens of Croatian nationality were evicted, it was from several villages of South Moravian border, and their dispersal among the population of Moravia. It was related to the fact that, after the Sudeten's separation in 1938, part of the Chorvat applied to German nationality and together with the local Němec welcomed the arrival of fascist occupation forces. Some joined Nazi organizations, others were called to serve in Wehrmacht. Despite certain complexity, most Chorvat eventually accepted to move. But after November 1989, the Chorvat came forward with certain demands. Their association filed a notice in February 1996 to the unidentified perpetrator at the Office of Documentation and Investigation of Crimes of Communism requesting that the case be investigated. However, the investigator of the competent authority after examination in January 1997 pursuant to § 159 para. 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure has postponed the matter. This was not a criminal offence, as the whole action was in accordance with the laws of the day. The Regional Prosecutor's Office in Brno also rejected the appeal in the case as unfounded in May 1997. According to this Decision, displacement was carried out on grounds of public interest, which was the security of the border zone, and supported the laws in force at the time. Yes, I say this for the simple reason that we already have support in specific cases where specific institutions have responded. The Prime Minister should know that too. [[10.00 hours]] When Daniel Hermann appeared here a moment ago as director of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, there was some tension soon after his arrival. This was not a fight between the left and the right, but between those who wanted the said constitution to have a normal academic phaseon, and those who wanted it to be an instrument of ideological perversion and political intrigue. Daniel Hermann was then told that he had been removed from the institution because he was an anticommunist. He probably didn't realize at the time that anti-communism had become the determining weapon of Adolf Hitler, both within Germany and internationally. And two more points. I greatly appreciate the Němec who were members of the so-called. Republicanische Wehr, Republican Defense. And they were Social Democrats and Communists. I have never forgotten them, and I often publish on this subject. I say this to Prime Minister Sobotk to realize it, as well as to realize that what happened in our Republic after the war, elections in 1946, was not out of fear, but it was a lesson from what was happening around Munich, what was happening during World War II and what was still threatening even in the postwar era. Yes, in time, people who had a slightly crooked character have also appeared and purposefully joined one or another political party. Of course, if I'm still saying something about it, I'm just saying it for the simple reason that my family was affected, too. Three members of my family were executed by fascists in the most brutal way. And even one member of my family passed both Osvětim and Buchenwald, miraculously survived. And his left wrist was 99633. That explains that we all have some experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u16	I thank Mr Grebeníčk. I'm asking, who's next for the debate? Please, colleague Leo Luzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, the debate of today's interventions seems to have caught up on the past. I don't think there's gonna be anyone here questioning the past who would want to read it differently. I firmly believe that, and I want to believe that there is no one in the Czech Republic to rewrite that history. But the foundation of the matter has vanished. The fact that the Minister of the Czech Government officially, let's say for the first time in his capacity, I don't want to use the word legalized, but let's say he has raised the ranks of the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft with his presence and brought into them a new belief in their goal, in their struggle, which they have declared in the past. Yes, I want to talk about what the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft represents now. It's an association that brings together three, someone says four groups if we divide Christians and Protestants. It brings together, say, social democratic members, but nationalists are the main forces of this association. Sudeton German nationalists. They're called Witikobund, as I found myself, although I don't have much German. Already in 2015, efforts were made to release the shameful sentence from the basic document of the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft and the demand to return what these German collaborators lost in the Czech lands by decision of the powers after World War II. And as you know, this decision has been challenged by a part, precisely by the nationalist part of the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft, that it does not agree, and this decision remains in the legal vacuum of this society. It is forgotten, however, that it was not the main declaration by the Sudeten German compatriots... The Čech, when they call themselves that, have. Since, in 1961, on 15 January, they approved a declaration that has 20 points so far in force, the 2015 decision, which they made as a kind gesture, again pointing out that the decision is not valid in their statutes, they have much more in their request. It is 20 points that concern the Czech Republic, precisely claims in the Czech Republic, precisely claims in the management of property, because this is the main issue in this country's association today. It is very generously subsidized, they receive funds for real estate and movable things that they believe they have lost illegally and incorrectly, and they make these demands. It is therefore problematic for me today to give them some legitimacy of the Czech government, even if perhaps, as the Minister has said here, a courtesy visit to their activities and events, but I consider it a rather dangerous precedent for the Czech government to say you are the standard regional associations that we have around the world and forgot that this association is constantly having property claims against the Czech Republic. Their members reject some reconciliation with what happened in 1945 and constantly invite their members, yes, their nationalist members, to apply their claims in former eastern locations that they consider their home. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u18	Thank you, Mr Leo Luzar, for the speech of Minister Daniel Hermann. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I just want to comment on some of my previous speaker's comments. I'm asking the so-called question. I have been dealing with the Sudeten German compatriotic association for years. I said a moment ago, I've been a member for 20 years, or almost 20 years, of the coordination board of the Czech-German discussion forum. It is true that Witikobund exists, it is true that it belongs to a broader organizational structure under the roof of the Sudeten German compatriotic association, but it is absolutely not true that it is dominant. I participated out of interest sometime before, I don't know, five years, maybe more, one of the seminars of this organization. It's an organization really revansist, whose opinions are completely obscure, and just when I talked to them, I said - and now I don't want to touch anyone - that's the kind of wave of demagogy I've last heard in a communist school. It is a marginal organization that has only a few hundred members, and none of the rational people take it seriously. So the dominant forces in the Sudeten German compatriotic association are, above all, a Christian democratic and social democratic current. And these are above all the organizations Ackermann-Gemeinde, Seliger-Gemeinde, then there are some organizations rather folklore or such ethnographic, such as the Association Adalbert Stiftra, some from Chebsk, from southern Moravia, which rather have the regional character. But those political opinionists are Christian democratic and social democratic currents. [[10.10 hours]] I am my visitor, official, at this meeting, or the central convention of this association wanted to express that we are heading for the future. I have deeply regretted the crimes of Nazism, which no one is questioning. And I also regretted some of the crimes that took place in the name of anti-German nationalism after World War II. I identify with everything I said in there. And I also use this interpelation to advance the announcement that on 12 December this year I will be awarded the Czech-German reconciliation award in Germany. So that it doesn't need to be perceived from the press, I'm calling it in. I appreciate this and, in the spirit of Czech-German reconciliation within the European Union, I intend to continue working. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u20	Thank you, Minister Herman. Another colleague Leo Luzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u21	Minister, I am glad to hear the division of the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft. And I will believe what you say is about the future, until this association of Sudeten German landsmanshaft publicly distances itself from its nationalist part, which, as you say, is smaller or not majority. But they haven't done it yet. It's part of them that raises these claims. When he does, I may believe that he really is serious about reconciliation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u22	I thank Mr Luzar. Now, Mrs Marta Semelová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u23	Thank you. Dear Minister Herman, you have no shame! You really go to Germany... [[A note off the microphone.]] No, I can turn to you directly. And you should know the rules of procedure. You go to Germany to bow to the judges who ask for property called Beneš a criminal. And you're still bragging and you're gonna tell the citizens, the Members, that they're gonna give you a medal or a medal or a prize or a prize, and you're still proud of it. Shame on you! You should step down. And you, Mr Prime Minister, through the President. I'm not surprised your electoral votes are dropping as a social democracy. The Němec may applaud you, but the Czech citizens certainly won't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u24	Thank you. And now Mr. František Laudát's application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u25	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, if a normal, mentally healthy person is looking at what's been going on here since 9:00 p.m., they have to think we should really take a shortcut to Bohnice. Don't be mad at me. If anyone should be ashamed, it's Mrs. Semelová. Please stop playing wars that don't exist anymore. I heard - I mean, I wasn't here - Mr. Herman. If only it were true that we could, in type and economic terms, become one of the Länder. If I forget the communist paradise in the eastern part of Germany they were building there. They just couldn't. We're somewhere else. We were recently with my colleague Pilný and Pflégr in Bavaria. They're roughly two million more, but they don't have four-fold GDP. They don't really care about us that much. What's convenient for them is - and don't be mad at me, there's no risk anymore, the world is somewhere, stop doing this clowning around. kašpařina. There's no other way to say it. I understand you're gonna kick us to the ground, which, besides looting its mineral wealth, isn't capable of proving anything. His population is soaked with alcohol, he's dying out. I'm sorry, but what you're doing here... Say one thing to people: yes, we want to go where we've been forty years... You were even involved in supporting the regime that tolerated the occupation. The occupation of our country, if you get it. And here you're still playing World War II. I think this country has other problems than playing it over and over again... This country must face completely different problems, completely different potential crises. And what you're doing here is really embarrassing, ridiculous and shameful. Cut it out and let's go deal with some serious stuff that burns this country. And I'm just surprised. I'm going to be in the place of the Němec today, so I'm going to say good, so if you're like that, so well, we'll work together somehow economically. But if you don't want to, it's always the right to choose. And I'm surprised. If I were in their shoes, I wouldn't end up getting dug up like that forever. Every nation has some pride. And what's happening here is really eclephant. And every time in every country, you might find some crazy, shy after 70 years, or so they were raised. You'll always find them. But to build that it's worth it... I don't know how many there are, maybe 200, 300 scumbags who just don't give a shit... That's in every nation... If it's worth it. By paying attention to them here and you're blowing it up, you're just giving them legitimacy and sending a message to the world that the Czech nation is small and ridiculous. Nothing else. And I don't know if we should afford this. Let's be proud, normal self-esteem. And stop playing these comedies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u26	That was Mr. František Laudát. Even Minister Herman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I just want to respond through Mr President to Mrs Semelová. Yes, I really appreciate someone's appreciation of work in the spirit of reconciliation, and I want to continue to work in this spirit. I'd just like to remind you that I'm not at all surprised by what my colleague presented here a moment ago. And I hope that at least the night viewers from the House will play it, because that is exactly in the spirit that she approved the execution of Milada Horáková, celebrates Clement Gottwald, and I think it shows where the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia stands today and that it is simply irreparable. I just hope that as many people as possible notice this and show it in the next election.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u28	That was Minister Daniel Herman. My colleague Gazdík has arrived, and I will ask him for a replacement and make a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u29	Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u30	[[Farther away from the speaker's desk.]] Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, members of the government, I have a reason to reject the Prime Minister's reply. I won't be here much longer to talk about my grandfather's merit in the fight against fascism or my grandfather's history of my mother's party, who has a rehab file for the 1950 political process. It doesn't matter. The important thing is that the Prime Minister did not answer me if there was a balance between sending. And the Prime Minister here said for the first time before this forum that it was with his approval to send Minister Herman to the annual meeting of the Sudeton German compatriotic association. So I ask, and I did not receive an answer to that in writing, and I therefore ask him to answer me again if he believes that this has not damaged the sovereignty of the Czech government. Because I do not know any case where the Minister of the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Germany or at least the Bavarian Government would attend the annual meeting of citizens expelled from the Czechoslovak border in 1938. I don't think I'm supposed to remind you of that beautiful movie and the Train of Happiness and Hope series. I think that the same respect for those forced to leave our borders could also be given to the ministers of the Federal Government or, at least, to the Bavarian government towards our citizens, when we give such respect to sending Minister Herman to the annual meeting of the Sudeton German Regional Association. [[10.20 hours]] And since I don't know it, it wasn't in the answer, let alone how the government of the Czech Republic will deal with the audit conclusion of the SAO 1410, how the money of Czech taxpayers will continue to be treated in the Bohemicum Foundation. I am convinced that I have the right to have the Prime Minister answer me in truth whether or not Czech taxpayers' money is flowing into the Federal Republic of Germany, and that I have the right to have him answer me at least when he acted in Michov, and I don't blame him at all, it is his political responsibility that one of the ministers of the German Government will come to us on a reciprocal basis to apologize to those people who were forced to leave the border after 1938. I think that anyone who respects the Czech national sovereignty and dignity of these citizens has the right to such an answer. That is why I reject the Prime Minister's written reply to my interpellation. Thank you. [[A round of applause for Members of the KSČM.]] [[Already from the seat of the President:]] I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. Please, my colleague Benešík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u31	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the government, Prime Minister, I first heard here today that the meeting of the Czech, Moravian exiles from Sudeten in 1938 was never attended by a German party representative, namely Bavaria. I think that would be very valuable. But I also ask, and it is a rhetorical question of whether the representatives of such a meeting have ever invited such a person. It's just kind of important because he can't sneak in. And I think that if such a meeting is really taking place and they want such a visit, it would be worth it if the representatives of the German party come to such a meeting and say theirs, and if possible they regret what happened. I totally agree with that. But the key thing is whether or not anyone invited the German side to such a meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u32	Please, who's next for the debate? If no one, I am done with the debate. I suggested in the debate that the Chamber of Deputies reject the Prime Minister's reply and that the Prime Minister be obliged to answer me once more on the questions I asked in the interpelation. We will decide on this proposal in the vote. I'm gonna check you all out and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards, and as soon as the number of entries is settled, we will be able to vote. Just a minute. [[There are not enough entries for the time being.]] Just a moment. [[Kvora reached.]] It will be vote number 39, in which we decide whether the Prime Minister will answer Vojtěch Filip's interpellation one more time. I've started voting number 39 and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 39 of 73 present for 24, against 41. The motion was not accepted. That's it. That's it. That's it. Another intervention is the interpelation of Mr Miroslav Grebeníček to the Prime Minister on the same matter. I'm asking Mr Grebeníček if he's interested in a performance. [[Yes.]] Before she comes, Mrs Bohdalová has a replacement card number 15. And now Mr. Miroslav Grebeníček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think I can please František Laudát. Maybe it's because my life's principle was: man is my name, the other last name. Yes, then perhaps the fact that I am a Čech and then the whole other thing, even political orientation, could follow. Which is why I still want to respond to the problem that we are dealing with here. This May, as mentioned earlier, spokesperson and chairman of the Sudeten German Landsmansaft Bernd Posselt appreciated the presence of the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman at the Sudeton German Landsmansaft convention. According to Posselt, the participation of a member of the government of the Czech Republic at the Landsmanšaft convention actually meant that the Czech government rejected the principle of collective guilt applied in the postwar displacement of the German-language minority. After Hermanův's speech to nice compatriots, Posselt specifically said: What we experienced was a historic moment. It was a clear refusal not only to banish but also to the principle of collective guilt, which so plagued the 20th century. landsmanšaft, ladies and gentlemen, from the visit and appearance of the Czech Minister of Culture concludes that the Czech Government, and therefore the Czech Republic no longer insists on the key decisions of the winning anti-Hitler coalition, nor on the legality and indisputability of the displacement of the German Nazis and those Němec who betrayed the Czechoslovak Republic, have appealed for Hitler's Third Reich and have not opposed Nazism. The decisions of the victorious powers that defeated Nazi Germany in World War II, the displacement of the German minority and the confiscation of German property, among others. on the territory of Czechoslovakia, i.e., it is obvious that the Sudeten German activists are no longer able to accept. Unfortunately, not just them. Their false interpretations of the past now find supporters in the Czech government. The results and consequences of World War II, as well as the historical fact of punishing the traitors of the Czechoslovak Republic and Nazis, question not only the Minister of Culture but even Prime Minister Sobotka today. How else can you explain the trivial response of the Prime Minister to my intervention to the active participation of Minister Herman at the Landsmanshaft convention, after the Prime Minister had already been able and should have had further subsequent comments from Minister Herman. Those statements that openly take over the rhetoric of the tombs of Nazism and grossly distort historical facts. Minister Herman even attacked the decrees of the President of the Republic of Edvard Beneš and the President himself. [[10.30 hours]] Daniel Herman is helping himself with the following statement for greater effect and in a fundamental contrast with historical reality: Countries that have become part of the Soviet Empire have addressed these issues under Moscow's dictation by optics of ethnicity. So guilt or innocence was not examined. It wasn't to see if Hitler's people stood up during the war. But it was based on ethnic cleansing. In the case of Minister Herman, I'm not surprised. Since he was ten years old he has been actively listening to foreign radio and the theme of Free Europe has allegedly been his morning wake-up call for many years. Soon he made contact with some Catholic clergymen and gradually developed the belief that the Church offered an effective platform to combat the regime. At the family cottage in Šumava, a few kilometers from the Bavarian border, he was told to often look over barbed wire into neighboring Bavaria and realize the absurdity of the iron curtain of the divided world. In Šumava he established a number of contacts with displaced natives, which significantly helped him to focus on the issue of their displacement. After his admission to the Roman Catholic Cyrilometodea Faculty of God's Word, he also devoted his church history in modern history. But he was never a professional historian. His appearance is far too often depraved in the compilation of amateur exercises from history and with the remission of ideological perversion, which is reflected in the interpretation of the period when the decisive majority of the German population of our borderlands accepted Hitler Nazism as their program and actively disrupted the Czechoslovak Republic, while much more Němec remained faithful. No, the more guilty the Sudeten Němec were not pushed away because they spoke German, but because they armed with fascist ideology smashed Czechoslovakia. Ladies and gentlemen, there are a lot of things that might be worth recalling today. For example, the words of the founder of the Pan-European Union, Count Kalergi, who wrote about reconciliation between Czechs and Němec in 1921: If this reconciliation fails, Czechoslovakia will go through repeated crises when German Čechy, with better political constellation in the world, will break off and the rest will be created by two small states, Czech and Slovak, which will not have enough viability and will soon fall to the level of German and Hungarian vassals. Today, a document, which is said to have reached 120 true Evropan from Madrid, called the Action Front for a New Europe, is also taking note. It states: Millions of exiles need to be used as important cards in our German power restoration policy. The removal of ten million fellow Germanics was a blessing for the Empire. The exiles have strengthened the biological substance of our race and have become one of the most important arguments of our propaganda. The exiles dissatisfied with their fate have been given new dynamics to our demands. Very soon we will be able to suffocate the noisy propaganda about German crimes by accusing the other side of the atrocities committed on the 10 million members of the German race. It is also worth mentioning the words of Otto Habsburg, an ally of the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft, with a new element of ideological face - Europeanism appearing at the beginning of the 1950s. Instead of restoring the Habsburg Empire, a united Europe. A little later, he said that no agreement could be signed that would recognise existing borders in the East. The Soviet Union then is said to have to push beyond the borders of Brestellite peace and to join the people's democratic states to the Western world, and Austria's connection with Germany is said to be inseparable. I will also recall his words from his speech in Hanover in 1960. The Němec are a Central European nation that has no natural boundaries. The German settlement is not exactly bounded in the east or in the west. Otto von Habsburg did not deny the political line of his family and the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft on the liquidation of Czech statehood even in his interview for Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung of 3 October 2004, in which he called Edvard Beneš a traitor to his own nation. It is also worth mentioning what was said on May 17, 1959 at the convention of the Sudeten German activists in Vienna. The Sudeten Němec have the right to return to their liberated homeland, which will be part of a united Europe with Germany. One of their leaders, Lodgman von Auen, even said that the Czech nation wanted to wipe out the Sudeten Němec and that the Sudeten displaced Němec were waiting for the return and exercise of the right to self-determination. Vienna also heard these words: The dead Hitlerův army fell for us, the last link of this chain was us. Their struggle is our struggle, their activities, our activities. On top of all this, I would like to take into account the content of the Sudeten German day in Ausburg, which took place in 2005. This whole Habsburg act was clearly conceived as a new phase of aggressive accusation of the Čech and the former Czechoslovak Republic for postwar displacement, even the alleged genocide of the Sudeten Němec. This was also illustrated by the unilateral or regretful manifestations of the priests during the Mass that preceded the meeting itself. This is mainly illustrated by the speeches made by representatives of the Munich segment of German politics Bernd Posselt, Johann Böhm and Edmund Stoiber, whose speeches were in the spirit of the developed concept announced by historian Ernst Nolt in the mid-1980s. That's what he demanded for German victims, without distinction, the same dignity that he devotes himself to the victims of fascist monstrosities. Are the murderers from the Mautensen quarry or Auschwitz gas chambers and crematoriums supposed to get the same dignity as the deaths of millions of their victims? Is the fate of the Sudeten Němec and the state secretary in Frank's office entitled to the same dignity as the death of the brave opponents of fascism? Ladies and gentlemen, it bothers me that the contemporary neo-Nazi scene is trying to present Adolf Hitler as a person who meant well for Europe. He said he wasn't a criminal and a mass murderer, and he even made social peace and everyone was supposedly satisfied. I will also remind you that on 1 October 2009 the first Czech-German meeting took place in the Czech Republic, which was prepared by the relegated Catholic Němec from the association in Ackermann-Gemeinde. Adolf Ullmann, then president of this together, was told that they wanted to know what had changed in our country in the last twenty years since November 1989. As part of this meeting, Pilsen Bishop František Radkovskýý took over from Ackermannův's community its highest award, which was mentioned a moment ago - the Medal of Reconciliation. [[10.40 hours]] I remind you that the Christian organization Ackermann-Gemeinde was founded in the 1950s and was founded by the Němec from the Czech Republic after the end of World War II. Later, the same-minded Čech, including Daniel Herman, began joining this organization. Today, Martin Kastler, who worked between 1996 and 1997 in the foreign policy department of the Office of the then President Václav Havel, is headed by Ackermannův. In doing so, they report to the initial program documents of the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft, which state that their inalienable requirement is the return of their homeland to the 1937 language borders. Ackermannův's municipality has had its branch in the Czech Republic since 1999, in the form of the Ackermann-Gemeinde association, which is the main transmission of Landsmanšaft influence in the Czech Republic next to the Prague office of the Sudeton German Regional Association. Since 23 February 2014, this association is headed by Minister of Culture Daniel Herman. I don't know how Prime Minister Sobotka feels about this, but it seems to many of our citizens that, in the person of Minister Herman, there is actually a representative of the Sudeten German Landsmansaft in the Czech government. I don't know about you ladies and gentlemen, but it seems very strange to me, at least. In May 2010, Erika Steinbachová, president of the German Exile Union, called on the Čech to take full possession of their supposedly terrible legacy, the fate of the Sudeten Němec and their inhuman expulsion. And Bavarian Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Christine Haderthauerová first wondered why statues of former Czechoslovak President Edvard Beneš were still erected in the Czech Republic, in order to cynically declare: Benešův's sculptures and Benešův's decrees do not belong to Europe. And no one's heard from the Czech side. Yes, the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft has been calling nationalists not only to Beneš but also to Masaryk for decades. And that part of the Czech political scene, which blames Masaryk and Beneš for failing to agree with the so-called Sudeten Němec, could not even agree with the Slovák after 1989. In March last year, German Chancellor Angela Merkelová spoke the following words: Germany succeeded in earning a recognized place in the community of nations because it was trying to cope with its share of the atrocities committed during World War II. Yes, it was incredible atrocities. I wish that even those who, by appealing to the moral guilt of both sides, would have realized that even the very results of World War II. It is a clear attempt to turn the historical truths about the crimes of the Nazis upside down. Of course, immediately after the war, the oppression of the Čech caused a wave of anti-German sentiments for the protectorate. It was so-called defense nationalism, unlike the German offensive. In some places there was also a so - called wild move. Ladies and gentlemen, the past, both ancient and later, is undoubtedly a serious and sensitive subject, and therefore should be discussed with soberness and mainly responsibility. Of course, political stalkers cannot be prevented from dragging complex and sensitive problems on the counters of their conjuring fairs. However, it is reasonable not to succumb to such campaigns without helping them catch their breath. Prime Minister Sobotka often repeats that we are members of the European Union and that we must act like one. So I do not understand why President Edvard Beneš's decrees have recently been in favour of the views of the Sudeten German Landsmanšaft and its Czech minions, when already on 30 September 2002, the European Union has reached the following conclusion on the basis of legal expertise: both the decrees and the associated legislative texts do not prevent the Czech Republic from being admitted to the European Union. According to these experts, it is not necessary to repeal Act No. 115 of 1946, which amnestyd the negotiations from 30 September 1938 to 28 October 1945, the purpose of which was to contribute to the fight to regain the freedom of Čech and Slovák, which led to a fair retribution for the actions of fascist invaders or their helpers. Of course, the exponents of the Christian-social union and the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft did not enjoy it and banged on the table. And they're banging today. We are here again, we are the topic of the future, for example, the highest representative of the displaced Němec Bernd Posselt. It's for whom. That is why I have a duty to ask, and I am specifically asking the Prime Minister who empowered the minister of his government - I stress - to disregard the views of the European Union and to question the circumstances as well as the factual and legal facts of the end of World War II. I want to believe that I'm going to get a substantive answer to a substantive question. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Before I open the debate, I'll read the apologies. I am correcting the apology of the Minister of the Environment, Richard Brabec, who today apologizes from 14.30 to the end of the day. Also today and tomorrow, for reasons of work, Mr Ivan Pilný apologizes. On this day, Mrs Martina Berdychová apologizes for reasons of work, today from 9 a.m. to 13 a.m. for reasons of work Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek, today from 9 a.m. to 9.45 apologizes to Mr Ondřej Benešík, for reasons of work today Mr Radek Vondráček apologizes for the whole day, from 11.30 a.m. to the end of the working day for reasons of work Mrs Bohdalová apologizes today, today and tomorrow for reasons of participation in the business trip, Mrs Květa Matušovská apologizes, today from 14.30 a.m. to the end of the meeting Mr Igor Jakubčík, from 9.30 a.m. to 11 a.m. and from 12.30 a.m. to the end of the meeting is apologized by Mrs Pavla Golasowská. I therefore open the debate and register Mr Laudát's application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u35	Thank you. Some of the colleagues here from the House asked me if we would take a rain check if Mr. Grebeníček was offended. So, technically, I just want to remind you - it is already a precedent for a mandate and an immune committee to be insulted by the party, but it is not possible to insult individuals. So if you want to send someone to hell or somewhere else, then insult the party, not the individual, so you don't have to pay the money. It's just so much. [[10.50 hours]] If it is blamed on my colleague Herman for listening to other stations, then I will confess that I consider myself a pupil of Free Europe. I listened to it except from Monday to Friday, when I was in college and I lived in Strahov under the tracks, typically block 11. That's the tower downstairs, so there was a rope that was holding one of those jamming stations that were stuck above Prague. It was typically called the communist constellation, because of course they had those red signal lights upstairs so someone wouldn't bump into it. I really beg you - we're getting ridiculous with this. Find a different subject than this, comrades. I think it's a real waste of time. I'm afraid of a lot of other rages. And when someone is talking about the threat or dismantle of Czechoslovakia, you start rationalizing, and if I blame Beneš, then why did he give the little Soviet Union the Podkarpat Russian, and more and more? Why you teamed up and here you tolerated and supported the occupations. The occupation of his own country. They've been stuck here for over 20 years. What's left of them? Infested land. A state that was the eighth most economically advanced in the world between two world wars, so you sent it to some kind of average that we can't get out of until today. So please, just stop it. And maybe not in front of 70. I wonder how people are getting more quiet today, what happened 27 years ago, how people were suffocating around here. The papalas had access to better medical care, the bonds here for the chosen, someone was allowed to go. And if Mr. Herman was looking over there, I'll admit I was watching your paradise too, there's no hole in the wires, and I'm running away from here. In the end, I didn't do it, and I regret it until today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u36	Thank you, too. Now Vice-President Filip. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. and gentlemen, I'd put the situation back. I understand that we can debate this from an ideological point of view, but I can't accept it. And, of course, I will take my own picture of why the resolution I proposed was not adopted, which means that the Prime Minister will answer me again. I can only say so much to my colleague Laudát: Yes, we can say that former Czechoslovakia was the eighth industrial state in the world between 1920 and 1938. I would have to mention here the words of the former Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Industry and Trade Vladimír Dlouhý, who said that the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic was the 14th most advanced state in the world in 1989. That's his statement, find him, I've got him hidden. That made me very happy back then. Because, of course, if we evaluate the history without historical context, we can't do anything. I was glad that my colleague Benešík performed at my interview because this is exactly the moment that needs to be addressed here, if the Czech Government is to send its ministers to a meeting of some associations. I'm saying on purpose. And if we are to reduce our degree of sovereignty. After all, I do not question the question of different behaviour towards each other of the European nations. You never heard me say that. I just want us to try to find a way in which the Czech Republic will communicate with the Federal Republic of Germany as a state, how we will communicate with Austria, how we will communicate with Slovakia. Some still do not understand that there are two sovereign states, the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic. And if I were to talk about the Podkarpathian Russians, as my colleague Laudát here has tried, I would have to say yes, at this point, if Czechoslovakia were to exist, it would be the best moment to have the original borders as in 1918. But the chance is not here, because it has occurred, forgive me, to a rather strangely organized division of the Czechoslovak state. I lost my country. I am a typical federal child, a mother from Slovakia and a father from Bohemia. But, of course, the search here, even through this interpelation, has a rational core - the way the Czech Republic performs sovereignly on the international stage. And if we are to go down, forgive me, to Germany, if we are to blame on other occasions, or if we are to act in an equal manner. And I have no doubt that it would be those who are in the very association of citizens expelled from the Czechoslovak borderlands in 1938 who would be the dignified partner of the Sudeton German compatriotic association. I know a lot of people who have been pushed away and who haven't been moved. If you want, I will take a historic tour here, as the national socio-socialist ministers in the Czechoslovak government behaved after 1945 to postpone, i.e. to decide the winning powers, and how the then Prime Minister Klement Gottwald acted. He was the one who didn't allow those who wanted to stay here and who were anti-fascists. If you want that entry, you can find it in the digital library of the then National Assembly. I mean, the show's famous. So I was simply insisting that we find a way that would be sufficiently dignified by the sovereign Czech Republic as one of the states of the European Union. We joined the European Union on the basis of a referendum. And that's not a common thing. It was the only referendum allowed in this state. After all, most of the time, it is argued that we would get rid of responsibility. Other things are also often argued that perhaps we would make the wrong decision. Okay, if we're scared as politicians of our own citizens' decisions, then we're not supposed to be here. I am in favour of the referendum, and I will be willing to push for individual referendums if the referendum law is not a general one. And I didn't want to talk about it that wide. But the principle of interpelling Miroslav Grebeníček, my interpelation is exactly about the dignity of behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u38	Thank you, too. I am now asking who else is reporting for the debate. Please, Mr. Laudát. Just for the record, I'm warning you that the interpellation ends at 11 o'clock. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u39	I only have tech. It's in vain, it's in vain. I would rather call on democratic parties' politicians, whether out of stupidity or for whatever reason, not to join these opinions and blow into the past. I was really shocked again by Mr. Boss' behavior, the Senate Chief Štěch again in Terezín. It's pointless, and there's really no problem. And let's not deal with things that are completely unnecessary, stupid extra and ridiculous. I think we've got enough stuff to deal with somewhere else and some other time. Look at the state we're in... I'm more interested in Mr. Took finally admitting the truth about what's going on in D8 and other things. As for this, I really think, I am pleasantly surprised that today, if we are talking to the Němec, there is no problem. When they come here, even official visitors, unlike your friends from China, no one here demands any embarrassing flags, some masquerades, and real messages that are from beyond the grave. Just remember what happened yesterday. That was absolutely incredible, even Husák would blush. And speaking of national dignity, please let's build that dignity now and at this time and not towards what was 70 years ago, however tragic it was, crazy, so please, let's build that pride now and here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u40	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. We have 10.59 hours. If no one reports, I will conclude this debate and, in agreement with the one who gives this interpelation, I will interrupt this point. Okay, thank you. That concludes this morning's point of interpellation. [[11.00 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is 11 o'clock. Now we should focus on the fixed points, and this is 172, 178, 179, 176, 182 and 243. It is Parliament's press 870, 896, 897, 894, 932 and 907. We would then discuss points from the Treaty block, second reading, according to the approved agenda of the meeting. We'll discuss paragraph 257 this afternoon, which is oral questioning. I'm asking if anyone wants to come forward with a motion to change the agenda. Mr. Sklenák. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u41	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you for the floor. I would like to propose one change on tomorrow's agenda, which I would like to respond to, that we have not yet been able to discuss this week's 911 House Press, which is the first reading of the Employment Act. The press is quite important because it addresses the issue of people with disabilities. And even though tomorrow we have a day that is usually devoted to third reading, as I consulted the representatives of the MPs, I would like to place this point firmly in the block of third reading tomorrow. In particular, three third readings by Minister Brabec, to be specific, before the block of third readings that we are now to place there firmly points 187, 188, 189 and then point 34, which is the House's 911 press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u42	That means, do you want to place it firmly after paragraph 189, House press 211? Okay, thank you. Now, Mr. Klučka, prosit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u43	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. My proposal is very simple. We have a fixed point 243 on today's programme, which is House Press 907. Please withdraw this fixed point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-001-256.u44	Okay. Just to clarify: withdrawal from the agenda or only from a fixed classification? [[The answer's off the microphone.]] Yes, thank you. I wonder if anyone else has a proposal to modify the agenda for the meeting. I don't see anyone. I will call my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby to vote on these proposals. I'm registering a request for your check-out. So I'm going to sign you off, and I'm going to ask you to re-enlist with your cards. The number has settled. Before I vote, allow me to welcome a new member of the government, Minister Jan Chvojka. Welcome! [[A round of applause and approval in the O.R.]] I don't see the Minister of Health here anywhere, so it's not until this afternoon, we'll welcome him later. We shall now proceed to the vote. First of all, a suggestion was made that tomorrow, 2. 12., item 34 was firmly inserted, House press 211, after fixed item 189. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of the motion to press... So sorry, I declare this vote confusing, but at the request of President Stanjura, I will mention it once more. It's item number 34, House press 211. It is a point about employment, employment of people with disabilities. 911! I'm sorry, I misheard. House printing 911, item No. 34. I will repeat once again what we will be voting on. The point is that tomorrow, 2. 12., we will include paragraph 34, House press 911 after already firmly classified paragraph 189. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against this? A proposal? It is a vote with order number 41, 116 Members and Members registered, for proposal 97, against no one. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been approved. Furthermore, we have another proposal here, and that is that we cancel the fixed inclusion of paragraph 243 today. That's the point of migration, first reading. The report on migration. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 42, 121 Members and Members registered, for proposal 81, against 3. I am of the opinion that this proposal has also been approved. I'll read the apologies. Today, from 11 o'clock to the end of the day, for personal reasons, Mr. Josef Uhlík apologizes. From 16 a.m. to the end of the day for personal reasons, Mr Adámek apologizes. Today, from 12 o'clock to the end of the day, Mr Robin Böhnisch apologizes. And on 1. 12th from 14.30 to the end of the day, Mr Lukáš Pleticha apologizes for working reasons. Furthermore, today from 14.30 to the end of the day, and for personal reasons tomorrow, Mr Jaroslav Borka apologizes. Mr Kostřica will be voting today with a replacement card 22. According to the approved programme I open the first point of today's negotiations, respectively. negotiations after the morning interpelations, and that is the point
