ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-002-195.u1	195. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratifying the Protocol on Montenegro's Access to the North Atlantic Treaty /German press 870/ - first reading The submitted proposal will be presented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-002-195.u2	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would like to present to you the Protocol on Montenegro's access to the North Atlantic Treaty. It is quite an essential press in which we should agree to ratify this protocol, in which we would apply for Montenegro to accede to the North Atlantic Treaty. Montenegro embarked on a Euro-Atlantic trip in 2006, when it joined the Partnership for Peace programme. Since 2010, it has been undergoing the process of the so-called membership action plan. In 2014 Montenegro launched a strengthening (?) dialogue. In December 2015, the meeting of the Alliance Foreign Ministers was invited to open talks on its approach to the North Atlantic Treaty. We then signed the protocol in May of this year, all the countries, the Contracting Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty, at a meeting of foreign ministers in Brussels. I attended that meeting. It was May, and that's where we all signed it. This accession of Montenegro is actually an expression of the Alliance's open door policy. It is a policy enshrined in Article 10 of the North Atlantic Treaty. It says that any country in our space that shares the same values can become a member of the Alliance and can contribute to the security of the entire space and be able and willing to sign up for the obligations arising from membership. Let me just remind you that six rounds of enlargement have already taken place since the Alliance came into existence in 1949. At the beginning, the Alliance had 12, currently having 28 member countries. I would like to stress before voting or deciding on ratification in the Czech Parliament that Montenegro is a small state, but it is an important part of the priorities of the Czech foreign policy, the Western Balkans region. We have excellent relations with Montenegro. We have not only excellent political relations, but we also have considerable economic and trade ties with Montenegro. You probably know that Montenegro is a major tourism for us, but also transport infrastructure and energy. I would like to give you a specific example. Montenegro chose the Czech Republic as its strategic partner in the energy sector when it assessed Škoda Praha's offer as the most advantageous for the construction of the second block of the thermal power plant Plievlja. It's a $338 million contract. EUR, so it is an absolutely fundamental investment in energy. I am telling you this as a proof that relations with Montenegro are not just some cosmetics, but they are quite deep relationships and are of fundamental importance to our industry. Speaking of good relationships, I would like to prove that these are also important relationships. In view of the fact that Montenegro is not a large country, this is a relatively large strategic opportunity for the Czech Republic. We certainly want to continue our relationships that are this good and to be a predictable, reliable and understandable partner for Montenegro. [[11.30 hours]] We have been supporting this accession of Montenegro to the Alliance all along. I'm not doing a long lecture. I'll give you one reason I'd like to say here, because it seems absolutely essential to support Montenegro. The reason is that the region of the Western Balkans is not in a very simple state today, because when you look at those countries of the Western Balkans, it is often not easy to make elections there today, to have a political vision that will unite the population and act as a stabilizing impression on the individual countries. In some of these countries, the political situation is quite serious, almost at the edge of the political crisis. And one of those reasons is that, thanks to how the European Union needs to solve its problems, there is not enough time for policy between the European Union and these countries and for creating and perspective for these countries in terms of the next process of integration. In those countries, there is often a great deal of interest in integration into the European Union, the Alliance, but actually we are not able to offer them much today. Because enlargement is not on the agenda today. Today, enlargement is promoted by several states, as in Central and Eastern Europe, who are aware of the importance of the stability of the Western Balkans for Europe. I guess I don't have to tell you that. Everyone knows what the Western Balkans and sparks ignited in the Western Balkans in the 20th century meant for the entire continent. So we know how important this is in terms of stability. And think of it as this ratification and accession of Montenegro to the Alliance is one of the few positive things that we show are partners to us and that this partnership has a specific outcome. Because in the area of enlargement, for example, the European Union, today, we are unable to offer many such concrete reports to the Western Balkans. And the interest in the Western Balkans is. The embarrassment or the uncertainty is more on our side. The number of countries involved in the Western Balkans is simply limited. And Europe and the European Union are overwhelmed by problems such as migration from Greece, such as economic, financial problems, also related to Greece, and, of course, there is still an unconsolidated situation in terms of combating terrorism, etc. So this makes the integration process, the expansion process more or less frozen, and it's not a good situation for the Western Balkans. That is why I would very much want us to be the next countries, because I think there is agreement in Europe that will support this particular offer here and the opportunity offered by one of the countries in this region. That's what I'm telling you is one of the key things. If we didn't, that means we're not very capable of offering anything, or that there's really nothing to be reckoned with as an offer from our countries. I'm putting together the European Union and the North Atlantic Alliance here, but I hope you understand that these are actually two institutions. There is a great deal of interest in both countries, and we have one particular opportunity here to have a result and to show that whoever meets the conditions gets a certain result. So I consider this psychological-symbolic moment to be very important. And then I stress the one I've already said that we have excellent relations with Montenegro, and I wish it were in the future. That is why I would like us to approve this ratification. So I'm saying these are basic things, and I hope there's a match in the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-002-195.u3	I thank the Minister. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Pavel Šrámek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-002-195.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think the Foreign Minister explained the whole protocol in detail. Allow me just a few brief information and a conclusion. The signing of the Protocol was the first step in Montenegro's approach to the North Atlantic Treaty, which is subject to the ratification of NATO member states. After signing, Montenegro is already involved in NATO negotiations as an invited country, but without the right to participate in decision-making. He will attend almost all formal and informal meetings of the Alliance, including ministerial and summit meetings, unless a member of NATO or the chair of the Committee has been asked to hold a meeting in 28 members. Montenegro is already contributing to NATO and the European Union's operations and is undergoing major reforms in which it is desirable to continue. Montenegro becoming another member of the Alliance will also contribute to strengthening stability and security in the Balkans, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs has already mentioned. Montenegro's access to the North Atlantic Treaty will not have an impact on the state budget of the Czech Republic. Therefore, I recommend ordering the press to further discuss the Foreign Committee of the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-002-195.u5	I thank the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Foldyna was the first to come forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-002-195.u6	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I listened very carefully to the words of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek about how it looks in the Western Balkans and that it is a very problematic region. Well, it has been very problematic since the early 1990s, when the Western Balkans, or the Western Balkans - stable - which was called Yugoslavia, divided into different states and mini-states, different nationalist strings began to play in this former Yugoslavia. Montenegro was one of the last countries to come into existence in this way. I wish the Černohorec their freedom very much, but ladies and gentlemen, weren't we a little bit responsible for the division policy? Today we want a united Europe, we want the states to join the European Union. But there was a state that was multi-national, multi-religious, prosperous, one of the most powerful states in the world - Yugoslavia - and yet we supported the Art Nouveau and we said that we support the right to self-determination, we support democratic processes. I would like to tell you that the Balkan states have paid the greatest tax for this political doctrine, thousands of deaths, streams of blood, and to this day the big problems that are there. I would like the policy of us Czech politicians to be a follow-up policy to the idea of Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk, who has maintained the best relations with the countries of the Western Balkans. Ladies and gentlemen, maybe I'll surprise some, I'll take a vote for Montenegro to join NATO, stay behind and not express myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-002-195.u7	Thank you, honourable Member. Now, President of the Foreign Committee, Mr Karel Schwarzenberg. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-002-195.u8	Mr President, honourable Members, I understand that in the Balkans, because of its complex history, opinions differ on Montenegro's approach to NATO alliances. I just want to say one thing, from our own experience. Money is always the most cowardly thing in the world. Money only goes where it feels safe. And if we look into our recent past, we could observe that the first big investment in our country came as soon as international capital felt secure, and that was after joining NATO. Then came the investment, for purely economic reasons, because the most necessary thing the West Bank needs is investment. Look at unemployment in all the countries of the Western Balkans. And even Montenegro cannot live only on tourism, although the hip di Cattaro is beautiful, this whole country cannot live on it. Therefore, it needs investment and they will only come when people feel that this country is safe. For this reason, I strongly recommend that we support this proposal, even if one or the other State has reservations about this for other reasons. But it is the only option I can see that the Western Balkans will gradually get to a certain prosperity and that terrible unemployment in this region will be eliminated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-15-ps2013-049-07-002-195.u9	I thank the Prime Minister. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for final words. Not interested. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed, by his decision, to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. I'm signing you all off, please sign up with your voting cards. [[11.40 hours]] We will vote on the commandment to the Foreign Committee. Initiating vote on the commandment to the Foreign Committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's serial number 215. 92 Members and Members are registered, for 86, against 2. The motion was accepted. I note that this government proposal has been ordered to discuss the foreign committee. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next proposal that we will be looking at is the point
