ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-004-165.u1	165. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Paris Agreement /German press 932/ - first reading I would like an opening word for the Environment Minister Richard Brabec to present it. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-004-165.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the main points of the material presented, which is called. The Paris Agreement adopted on 12 December last year by the World Community under the UN Framework Treaty on Climate Change, which regulates the basic framework for international climate protection after 2020. This agreement, among other things. It formulates the long-term objective of climate protection, which is to contribute to maintaining an increase in average global temperature well below two degrees Celsius compared to the period before the industrial revolution, and to strive to ensure that the increase in temperature does not exceed 1.5 degrees. At the same time, this agreement brings a significant change with regard to commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The agreement not only obliges developed but also for developing countries to establish national reduction commitments to maintain this objective. Every fifth year, these commitments are to be assessed with the following commitments to represent progress compared to the previous ones. The Czech Republic, and this needs to be stressed, has committed itself together with the other Member States of the European Union to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40 per cent by 2030 compared to 1990. So far, we have succeeded in this effort, because last year we managed to reduce emissions by approximately 35.5% compared to 1990. By accession to the Agreement and this commitment, the common objective of the European Union and its Member States, adopted by the European Council in its conclusions of October 2014, will thus be fulfilled. [[11.50 hours]] Furthermore, the Agreement introduces a periodic global evaluation of the state of compliance with the Agreement and the obligations of the Contracting Parties, and also formulates a global adaptation objective strengthening the adaptation capacity and resilience of countries to negative climate change expressions, defining the framework of measures at national level and also the area of cooperation with developing countries. By ratifying the Paris Agreement, the Czech Republic will join the efforts of States to achieve more effectively the objectives of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. It shall also encourage the enforcement of a long-term requirement applied jointly with the European Union and its Member States to cover commitments for all major producers of greenhouse gas emissions, i.e. in addition to the United States or Japan and the Russian Federation, for example. China, India, Indonesia, Brazil or Mexico, because the European Union is not a leader, virtually. it is not the largest polluter from the point of view of greenhouse gases and the total EU emissions are somewhere between 12 and 13 per cent, whereas e.g. China's emissions of around 24 percent of global emissions, the United States around 20 percent. The agreement entered into force on 4 November this year, i.e. less than a year after its adoption in Paris. And I have to say that it was earlier than many expected. This also points to the importance attached to this agreement by the international community, including those countries which were not participants and did not join the Kyoto Protocol, i.e. the predecessors of the Paris Agreement. According to the latest information, the agreement has already been ratified by both world's largest greenhouse gas issuers, China and the United States, and it is clear to me that the debate will be open to the question of how the United States will deal with it after the election of the new US President. That's definitely a relevant question. But what I'm saying is that so far more than a hundred states have joined the agreement, and these states represent almost 80 percent of the world's CO2 emissions already, at present. At the moment, 14 states of the European Union have ratified the agreement, among others. already Hungary, Slovakia, Poland, i.e. even countries which, frankly, were not the leaders in the enforcement of these measures within the framework of the V4 have ratified this agreement within one day following the Government's approval in the House. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we will certainly discuss the meaning of this agreement. But I think the point is the only one - regardless of whether speculation can be about the extent to which the anthropogenic human activity is involved in the faster warming of our planet, whether it is from 80 percent or 70 percent or 50 percent, for which there are various scientific opinions, it is quite clear that human activity is involved. I'm my original education geologist, so these are things I'm interested in outside my job. And from those past geological periods, it is very clear that such rapid warming of the planet is extraordinary. This means that the world - and this is happening with this Paris Agreement - should be solidarity in respect of climate commitments and the Czech Republic should not be a party to this process. In view of the above, and also of the speed of ratification in other countries, I would like to ask you, fellow Members, to shorten the time limit for the negotiation of the draft ratification of the Paris Agreement in accordance with the provisions of Section 91 of the Rules of Procedure to 30 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-004-165.u3	Thank you, Minister. Please, without questioning your introductory words, so that the proposal should still be heard in the general debate. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Robin Böhnisch. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-004-165.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, dear students, allow me also briefly to report on the Paris Agreement. If we were a more positive country and a more positive parliament, it would probably be a matter of day-to-day, but I think we'll be fine in our currently defined time. Allow me a few facts, then. The Paris Agreement was adopted on 12 December 2015 at an international climate conference in Paris. The Agreement is an implementing treaty to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The agreement replaces the current Kyoto Protocol. The Government agreed to negotiate the agreement on 11 April 2016. The Minister of the Environment signed it on behalf of the Czech Republic on 22 April in New York. On the same day, the European Union and its Member States became signatories. As of 22 September, the agreement was ratified by 60 Contracting Parties, including the largest producers of greenhouse gases, the USA and China. There are more of these countries now. Ratification in the European Union and in individual Member States is already under way. The agreement has already been ratified by some of the neighbouring and V4 states - the first Hungary in May 2016. The agreement wants to improve the implementation of the UN Framework Convention and to contribute to maintaining an increase in the average global temperature below at least 2 °C compared to the industrial revolution and maintaining an increase in the average global temperature of 1.5 °C. The Agreement obliges the Contracting Parties to establish and implement national contributions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These national contributions are to be revised every five years, with the following being higher than the previous one. It recommends the Parties to maintain greenhouse gas storage tanks, for example. forests, and implement measures to reduce emissions caused by deforestation and forest degradation. It sets out the basic principles for the mechanism to support the implementation of mitigation and adaptation measures. It confirms the obligation of developed States to provide funding for mitigation and adaptation measures in developing countries. It is clear for the first time, and it is important that the economic situation in developing countries is evolving and some are already able to participate in the financing of climate protection. It shall impose on Contracting Parties appropriate measures in the field of climate change in the field of education, access to information and active public involvement. A Committee shall be established to monitor the fulfilment of commitments. The Agreement is open for signature for a period of one year, i.e. until 21 April 2017. The Paris Agreement addresses the issue that is regulated in the European Union by the so-called regulations. climate-energy package, which are already implemented in the law of the Czech Republic. However, the implementation of the Paris Agreement will require partial adjustments to EU law in the area. As regards the common national reduction contribution established by the Czech Republic as a member of the European Union, it is based on the common objective of the European Union and its Member States, which was already adopted by the European Council in October 2014. The agreement is an international treaty, the ratification of which requires the approval of Parliament under the Constitution of the Czech Republic and subsequently ratification by the President of the Republic. A compulsory contribution to the budget of the Agreement, which will be similar to that of the Kyoto Protocol, is envisaged, with the contribution to the budget of the Agreement being paid from the budget chapter 315, i.e. the Ministry of Environment. So many important remarks on content. Personal note. Thanks to the way I watched the preparation of COP21 in Paris last year and talked about positive-tuned countries and positive-tuned parliaments, I have to bow to the diplomacy of the French Republic, which prepared for COP21 incredibly perfectly. French diplomats have managed to change the views of a number of emerging economies by making themselves known and signing commitments equal to those of the European Union, not some other developing countries, for example. The Philippines, where this rapid change in access to the Paris Agreement took place. Currently, COP22 is taking place in Marrakesh these days, where our Moroccan friends are trying to move a number of commitments that have been accepted in Paris just last year. [[12.00 hours]] I have noted that the proposal has been classified as a guarantee by the Foreign Committee. If possible, I would like to propose that we remove the debate on this material from the foreign committee's shoulders and recommend that we assign this contract as a guarantee committee on the environment, with the fact that I would remain rapporteur on this committee as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-004-165.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. I am sorry, Madam Vice-President, but the President is not excused. [[Black]] Procedure proposal - please, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-004-165.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I wanted to ask my colleagues, because the ranks behind me, the ministerial benches, are completely undignifiedly empty. And does it seem normal to you that we are discussing a matter as serious as the Paris Agreement and that the Minister of Agriculture, the Minister of the Environment and the Minister of Culture are sitting here? Where is Minister of Industry and Trade Mládek? Where's the Prime Minister? Where are the other ministers on whom this Paris agreement will have an impact to tell us their position? For this reason, I propose a break to the presence of Minister Mládek, at least.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-004-165.u7	This is a procedural proposal that I will put to the vote without debate. I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. I am opening the vote on the suspension of the House's negotiations on this point in the presence of the Minister of Industry and Trade. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 339 vote, 99 Members and Members, for 53, against 36. The proposal has been adopted and I am interrupting this point in the presence of the Minister of Industry and Trade. The next item is the item
