ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-014-017.u1	17. Government bill amending Act No. 114/1992 Coll., on the conservation of nature and landscape, as amended /house print 501/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposed bill will be introduced by the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-014-017.u2	Thank you. Colleagues, co-workers, because I am grateful for every minute that this law receives in the second reading, I will allow myself to pass on my opening word and give room to my colleagues for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-014-017.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee. Furthermore, the press was assigned to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as House prints 501/1 to 501/3. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, Mr Robin Böhnisch, be given the floor, to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in committee and to justify any amendments. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-014-017.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Like the Minister, I will try to be as brief as possible to get my colleagues to hear their words in a detailed debate. So I will briefly remind you that the first reading of the law took place on 7 October 2015, again on 20 January this year, with the deadline for committee discussions extended by 20 days. The Act was dealt with by the Environment Committee and the Public Administration Committee. It should be said first of all that the Committee on the Environment dealt very closely with this standard, held two round tables, held a seminar by the Ministry of Environment, as well as a meeting of the subcommittee on conservation of nature and landscape. The Committee then discussed the press at its exit meeting in the National Park It will include 30 March 2016 and have approved several amendments included in the committee resolution. As I said, at the same time the press has been dealt with by the Public Administration Committee, and I will, of course, leave this report with its rapporteur. Finally, three petitions have also been sent to the committee concerning this law from 60,000 signed under one petition to a petition signed by 26 citizens. So much for me so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-014-017.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Jan Klán, to inform us also of the discussion of the committee's proposal and to justify any amendments. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-014-017.u6	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, Mr. Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen. Let me introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development of the 40th meeting of 13 April 2016. Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic at its 40th meeting following the justification of the proposal by . Vladimír Dolejský, Deputy for the Management of the Department of Nature and Landscape of the Ministry of Environment, after the report by Mr Mgr Jan Klán and following the debate, adopted a resolution by which: (a) recommends that the Chamber of Deputies discuss and approve the 501 press as amended by the amendments adopted. I'll read them to you briefly: 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 1 (1) (b) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 1 (1) (b) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)))) (v))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v) (v)))))))) (v)))))))))))) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 1 (1) (b) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) It is then certain changes, when in Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. I § 22b para. In Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: I point 2 is deleted. These amendments are based on the requirements of the mayors of Sumava in some way. I note that we have had a rather extensive discussion on the committee. I also held a discussion with the mayor's representatives from Sumava. I note that not with everyone, but only with some. Then I spoke to the representatives of the Ministry of the Environment, as well as the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, and we found some compromises, but I believe that there will probably still be quite a long discussion, especially about Šumava, which we discussed also on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-014-017.u7	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate in which, first of all, Mr Fiala, may vote. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-014-017.u8	Hello. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, my fellow Members, I have been late to discover the results of the vote before I voted, so allow me to say publicly here that, in the vote 415, where I am on drugs, that I voted against, I voted in favour, and in the vote 416, where I am on drugs, that I have abstained, I voted against. I'm not questioning the vote, I can't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-014-017.u9	Thank you. It's just for the tape. And now, in the general debate, first of all, with priority rights, Vice-President of the TOP 09 and Mayor Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-014-017.u10	Hello, thank you for your word. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with interest to the opening speeches by both the Minister and the rapporteur. I agree with the rapporteur that this law has been very thoroughly discussed both in committees and in subcommittees, it has been discussed on round tables, and I think it has been given very thorough attention to him. I cannot agree with the fact that Minister Brabec is calling us here to discuss the law quickly today if I paraphrase it a bit or that he is glad that it is finally coming to the House meeting. I mean, the first reading here was in October 2015. I suspect it's a record of this House when six months passed between the first reading and the second reading. Meanwhile, Minister Brabec was preceded by a number of his fellow ministers from the ANO movement. I don't know why it is that he has such a weak position, or if the others have stronger ministries, I don't know, but I don't think it's right to leave such a long lock between first and second readings. This was October 2015, today we have May 2016 and we are at second reading. I have never secreted that I am the supporter of this law, at least the original version submitted by the Ministry of the Environment here, because the standard that has been put forward here is a really modern standard that meets the latest environmental requirements. Unfortunately, in the meantime, within five or six months, I am beginning to feel that the law is slowly becoming a law that should comply with all and no one. These are, of course, the various amendments that appear here in various ways...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-014-017.u11	I'm very sorry. Dear colleagues, I'm asking for peace of mind. Please, Mr. Ambassador, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-014-017.u12	I told you, no one here cares about nature conservation. [[With a smile.]] This means that it is not only the six months when different amendments are coming, but it is the different signals that both the Minister of the Environment and the Ministry are sending, which will be adapted by the very different sub-legal standards. And that's what I'd really be afraid of. So I believe that in the amendments, the very reasonable part will pass, which sets out what it has in the law and the Ministry, whether or not the Minister, will, of course, allow it to work with some sub-legal standards, but, of course, maneuverability will not be as high as the Ministry thinks it is today. What are we talking about here today? We are talking not only about the law on conservation of nature and landscape, but in a simple way, it is clear among all that we are talking about the Šumava Act in particular. This is about Sumava, we all know it, we don't have to hide it here. The question is whether in the second round that we are experiencing here in the present House - the first round was the Senate Bill on Sumava, when the developers lost it - the developers will win, or the conservation of nature and landscape. In other words, whether we will have a carnival and a golf course and some wellness centers in Sumava or whether we will protect wildlife there. Meanwhile, I have a feeling from the Ministry of the Environment that they are leaning towards the side of the wild, for which I would like to commend them in some way, but I believe that they will continue to do so. This means support, as I said here, from TOP 09 is now conditional. It is highly dependent on what amendments will go through and how the law will be amended by the amendments. Of course, the law contains a number of shortcomings and this is a sort of, I would call it the absence of a guarantee that what is strictly protected today will be strictly protected in the future. That is what I think is not clearly defined in the law and should be. That's what the law is for. And the next question is how well the national park destination is. Several times we discussed how colleagues from the Committee on the Environment might remember that section 15. I think it is a matter that is also a question mark, whether competence should be on each individual minister or park director, or whether they should be legalized. The absence of these two constraints means that the rules of care can change depending on each new minister of the environment. I don't know the Minister of the Environment who put forward a good standard. In the next government, it can be won by another populist party, which will get 45 percent and build the government itself, and the minister will change everything himself. I would really appeal here again to move more of this into the law, that is, by the proposed amendments. [[17.40 hours]] The draft amendment limits the possibility of further sale of state land. That's right. The question is, why doesn't he completely forbid it? That's the second question. The fact that it makes it possible is precisely in those built-up and stopable territories of municipalities, it goes there that it is the biggest interest from the point of view of investors and developers. I don't mean it pejoratively here, it's just the right interest from investors that they're interested in such lucrative land. I think that's a perfectly legitimate matter. On the other hand, it should be dealt with by law in the national park. I am pleased that my colleague Klán here, after this - excuse me - the horror he has put forward here in his amendments...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-014-017.u13	I'm very sorry. Dear colleagues, please bear with me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-014-017.u14	...who was presented here by colleague Klán, so he wanted to allow the sale of all the land on even larger areas of national parks, in the entire cultural landscape zone. It would be such a privatization of the national park. This really surprised me that the Communist Member is taking these proposals. I believe that those amendments that somehow appeared in that system will not be read and will not have to be voted on at all. I would like to say that it is not quite clear from the amendment how we will protect the most valuable territories, which are now partly privately owned. It is, of course, the Lake Slat, Interforest Slat and some other bogs. There I think it is a question of how to proceed further in the consolidation of the very fragmented first zones and those zones that are on private property. Other problems - I will just briefly name them - are partly addressed in the amendments that will probably appear here in a few moments. It is a lack of regulation of construction activity in the free landscape. I really have to pause here over the Moratorium that Minister Brabec is talking about. I do not identify with him, although I understand, of course, why he wants to have a 15-year moratorium, but I am actually leaning here to deal with it in the law, not by some ministerial decree. We will certainly support it if there is a solution here in the amendments other than the moratorium, because it is merely a ministerial promise. More trouble. It's a first-class road chemical sprinkler in a national park. The reason it's there has been explained several times. It is indeed a first-class road which must be salted, however I suspect in CHKO, in protected landscape areas, with all roads with salt for exception and not solved by exception in laws, but by exception to another. I think it should be dealt with in the same way as it is in protected landscape areas, which means ban on chemical sprinkles and then solve the first-class roads concerned with exceptions. The question, of course, is to allow game hunting in natural zones. This is an untraceable solution to the collision of nature protection with the forest law in the centralized care zone. As I said before, the shortcomings we are discussing here are addressed by the amendments. One of the amendments is coming from the Committee on the Environment, which is supposed to eliminate some of the shortcomings. I believe that we will find there support for the amendments to the Committee on the Environment. The second such package of amendments was prepared by environmental organisations, and I think my colleague Junek has taken them up and will in some way present them here. I believe that most of them will also find support, because the things that are there are reasonable in my opinion and are in the spirit of what I was talking about here. As I was saying, I have been subject to partial criticism here, especially from the point of view of the procedure, because the almost six-month prolude between first and second reading and some of the promises that were made by the Ministry of Environment by Minister Brabec, they dismantle the original modern standard, so for that reason the criticism. However, if this law passes and passes in this or in a better form, I would like to say that it is indeed a modern standard that will shift the protection of nature and the landscape a little further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-014-017.u15	I thank Mr Kučer. First of all, with a factual remark, Mr Jan Klán, then with priority rights, Mr Jan Zahradník. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-014-017.u16	Thank you for the floor. Let me respond by your means to Mr Kučera about my comprehensive amendment, which has been recorded in the system for some time. You know, I wouldn't even record him in there if they were sticking to the deal, the original deal. This was because the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development discussed this proposal, which came from the mayors of Sumava, on the committee, and was only to discuss it on Tuesday night, which means sometime before, and he was included on Tuesday afternoon. And we had it Tuesday night. That's why he was uploaded into the system to talk about him here. Since we only managed to do so on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as originally intended, when I had just appealed to the Minister that we needed to discuss it, I withdrew him from the system. There is no comprehensive amendment under my name. It was simply resolved in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, and period. And that's where it ended up. I'm saying there was a real mistake in communicating with the Ministry. We figured it out, and we figured it all out. And after all, I've dealt with the Rainbow Movement. I used to talk to them on the radio. I didn't have a problem with that. I quote, these were amendments from the mayors of Šumava, so that all this is discussed. But since we discussed all this, I consider it a closed chapter. If you guys are still having trouble spreading this place, spread it out, but I'm not doing it anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-014-017.u17	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Michal Kučera. After that, with a factual remark, Mr Václav Votava. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-014-017.u18	Thank you for your word. I will only briefly respond to my previous speaker, Mr Klán. Of course, the way we were discussing it was a little weird. I don't want to say he wasn't legit. It was rather strange, because the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee has already concluded its negotiations, first of all, on all amendments, secondly, in order to discuss the amendments in committee, you certainly do not need to read the amendments into the system. I spoke to them on the basis that they appeared in the system, not that they appeared somewhere on the committee as one of the possible variants. We all know that the mayors of Sumava are the author. Why the Communist Party took over, I don't know, that's a real mystery to me. And the contents that were there were absolutely rusty and devastating to Sumava. That's all on my side.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-014-017.u19	I thank Mr Kučer. Mr Václav Votava, Mr Jan Zahradník, then Mr Jan Klán.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-014-017.u20	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to turn against Mr Kučera's words through you. He said that the previous proposals concerning Šumava, and they were from the workshop of the Plzeň Region and the Senate, that it was the loss of developers. It offends me, my colleague, by your means, Mr Vice-President. I raised my hand for this in the Plzeň Region at the Plzeň Region council, and no developer influenced me. I assure you of that. So please, if you comment on this, leave out the developers. She's such an obsessive idea, and it was used, even though we wanted to open up Brd's military space, that, of course, developers want it, and we're manipulated by developers. No way, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-014-017.u21	I thank Mr Votav. Another point of fact - Mr Jan Zahradník, Mr Jan Klán, followed by Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-014-017.u22	Mr Vice-President, I have, with permission, taken advantage of the opportunity to sign up with a factual comment on the speech by the Member for the TOP 09 Kučera. I would first apply, contrary to him, that I am a long-term critic of this proposal for an amendment to the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act. First of all. Secondly, I was a little surprised when it came out of his mouth that it was actually the Law on Sumava. I mean, it's not a law on nature conservation, some noble, all-embracing law that should solve nature protection. Or more, which should define other national parks. Indeed, it is lex Šumava and as such we must, of course, also perceive it. And I join a colleague of Votav with regard to what he has said about those who have tabled a Senate proposal, who are trying to make amendments in some way. He called them developers. That they want to build golf courses on Sumava and that they want to cement it all. These are the people who live in Sumava, those who support the amendments tabled. They're their representatives of the authorities, the mayors. And they're not the ugly developers that Mr Kučera seems to imagine. I think that he should consider and humbly apologize to the Šumavák for his comments when he describes them in this way and presents them here in the House of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-014-017.u23	I thank Mr Zahradník. Another factual point, Mr Jan Klán. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-014-017.u24	Thank you for the floor. Once again, by your means to Mr Kučera. Why were the amendments that were once recorded in the system by the mayors of Sumava? There was a threat that the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development would not discuss them. Because the original intention of the Ministry was to discuss it on Tuesday. And the committee wasn't supposed to meet until after the House tonight. That's why they were put into the system so that we could talk about them here in plenary. But the intention was to discuss it with the committee. This was also done in agreement with the Minister of the Environment. That's why we put this point here for the variable week of the House. You realize that. There was no purpose in any way that I was manipulated or hacked by developers. That's not true! I dealt with the mayors of Sumava. They came to me and gave me an amendment that was complex, let's call it whatever it was. I have adopted it so that it can be voted on, because otherwise it could not be voted on or discussed. That is why I adopted it as rapporteur on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, and we also discussed it. We discussed everything with the Ministry of the Environment and with the Committee of the Environment here in the House. And we found a compromise. That's just the way it was. Well, then, Mr. Ambassador, you must understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-014-017.u25	Thank you. Understand only through me, please. Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Michal Kučera. After that, Mr Igor Jakubčík. After that, the rapporteur with a factual remark. After that, Mr. Jiří Junek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-014-017.u26	Thank you for the floor. I understand, of course, what Mr Klán said, and I do not want to comment any further. To my two previous speakers, Mr Votav and Mr Zahradník, through Mr President. Dear colleagues, I do not consider the word investor and developer to be a pejorative word or an insult. They're perfectly competent, I'll say companies that invest for a living by investing somewhere, that they're building something, that they're developing something, and their business is completely legitimate. The fact that this is an insult is only in your perception, not mine. The fact that the possibility of Šumava developing just under the developers' baton is also completely legitimate. Completely legitimate if we want to have more amenities. To develop the recreational industry there. That's a perfectly legitimate position. It can't be insulting. On the other hand, there is a legitimate position, and that is the position that says: we want nature protection, we want wildlife protection. We want the protection of Sumava nature to develop as it is. Those are two perfectly legitimate positions. And if I say... If I'm saying the developers lost it, I'm not saying it's wrong at all. That's no insult to developers. Totally legitimate business. And here I stand on the side of those who want to preserve Sumava in its natural, natural development. If anyone wants to build recreational areas, please. It's his real right. I'm not making any excuses for him. But of course I'll be on the other side. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-014-017.u27	I thank Mr Kučer. With another factual remark, Mr Igor Jakubčík. After him, the rapporteur. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-014-017.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will not address anyone in particular through you. I think everyone will understand who this is about. To one of my previous speakers. I wonder who he's being bullied by, who he's being paid for. Because some Members are allegedly paid by some developers, some pressure groups. I wonder who this previous speaker of mine is being paid to. Who he is lobbied by. Thing number one. Thing number two. This Member concerned, I wonder where the city lives and if they are there for example. Anti-flooding measures are being implemented. If so, I think it should be stopped immediately and cancelled, because water is a completely natural element that should go where he recognizes it. And it shouldn't be regulated. I mean, that's nature, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-014-017.u29	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, the rapporteur. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-014-017.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I volunteered to try to get back to the debate, because we spent most of the time we were given, in fact, on the procedure and the way it supposedly went backstage. Well, I'll introduce you to the progress of the event in more detail. And I have to say, against the way things are going at the plenary right now, I'm guessing in both committees, behind the scenes, with all the concerned, let it be environmental organisations, mayors and others, it's been very peaceful and very correct. I would like to reject Mr Kučera's remark that this is lex Šumava. It's not. He mentioned it was a modern standard, and I agree with that. And it's a standard for all national parks. The proof is that the director of the Podyjí National Park Administration, Mr. Engineer Rothröckl, sits at the top of the gallery. Not the director of the Šumava National Park Administration. It is indeed a law for all national parks. The first round table of the Committee on the Environment was held on 4 February 2016. It lasted about six hours. We discussed the section after the section with the participation of mayors from Šumava, directors of national parks, numerous Members, environmental organisations and professional public. Another round table was then held on 10 March, where we finished, paragraph after paragraph, whole law, whole novel. In the meantime, Mr Kučera's subcommittee was held, where the same one took place. On 25 February 2016, a large seminar was held, organised here in the Chamber of Deputies by the Ministry of Environment. The Public Administration Committee has dealt with the law twice. I think we have reached a very good amendment, which we can continue to work with, as well as with the amendment of the Committee on the Environment, at the limit of the deadline set by the law, but in agreement with the rapporteur, I think we have reached a very good amendment. I also welcome some of the proposals that have appeared in the system. I'm sure we'll still be talking about them, even if it's not today. So much more detail on the debate that took place in the committees, especially in the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-014-017.u31	Thank you. The last point of fact before the break announced by the Civil Democratic Party - Mr Jiří Junek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-014-017.u32	Mr President, thank you. Of course, I didn't want to comment until the debate, but it doesn't matter now. I will try to respond to my colleagues in my point of fact. I'm just a fellow Zahradník. You're the one who told us we're trying to push something around for the Sumavian mayors. That the developers are being hacked and they want golf courses on Sumava. That they want to concrete it. But the problem is, we don't really know what they want, or at least I didn't know. At first reading, I asked what your idea was. I asked the committees what the idea was. I didn't know. And then I see their proposal made by Mr Klán, it just doesn't matter, and there I see that they want to sell state land in that cultural zone, etc. Well, then it's hard to imagine or think. A note to Mr Jakubčík. It's a good one, but please, the analogy with the flood control measures - of course they're in those cities, but those cities aren't in national parks. So, please, let's not mix this up. And I would probably mention the last thing that the law really isn't lex Šumava, that it solves the issue of all national parks comprehensively, and so it needs to be approached. Of course there are the most problems in Sumava, it is the biggest, so logically it will be talked about the most, but it is not the law on Šumava. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-014-017.u33	I thank Mr Junek and that was today's last contribution. I am interrupting this item in the light of the request from the Civil Democratic Party to take a break at the meeting of the MP and, at the same time, interrupting the 44th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies by 9 a.m. tomorrow morning, when we will continue this meeting by replying to written interpelations. Have a nice evening, dear colleagues.
