ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-008-225.u1	225. Proposal for the Commemorative Medal for Merit on Parliamentary Democracy, Medal of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic It is House document 4667. We will continue with the interrupted general debate. The next priority was the President Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-008-225.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I basically want to apologize to Vice-President Bartošek, because I have no doubt that he meant well and well. Indeed, I was prepared to support this proposal at the first signal, and I have already publicly said that unlike President Schwarzenberg, I am not afraid of devaluation. I don't think decent thanks to decent people are enough. And so I considered the first naive thought. On the other hand, when I imagine political decision-making in this House not only during this period, but also in the coming years, I realized that I would really, even as a mother-in-law outside this House, would not like to see the situation when the Members of the Czech Parliament of the Czech Republic would receive the award of the Czech Border Club for shot-up people, thus benefiting parliamentary democracy in this country. This and a number of other similar risks prevent me from raising my hand and I ask the President to understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-008-225.u3	Thank you to President Kalousek. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Kováčik. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-008-225.u4	Thank you for the floor. The discussion that is being held here, colleagues, and colleagues, is a clear view of what the House should not look like and act. Vojtěch Filip said it quite clearly here in the morning part of this point. The Chamber of Deputies, as one of the highest institutions, an institution that can overrule the President, can overrule the Senate, should - at least that has a basis - control the government, these are all serious powers, serious powers, let itself be dragged by various passions, whose common denominator is "hunt your Member" or "shoot your Member or at least slander him, just do whatever he devalues and disrespects" and maybe some of us are also doing this to record some of these tendencies. But in fact, in general, it does not apply to exactly the same citizens of the Czech Republic, except other individuals, composed by other institutions, constitutional or other... That the Chamber of Deputies, as a decisive and constitutional institution, has been the target of a particular focused - let us say, gentle action to arouse passion in the civil society - in turn, to put it mildly - against the Chamber of Deputies as an institution. I remember, and many colleagues and colleagues from the KSČM MP often remember how, at 10, 15, 20 years ago, when a Member or a Member arrived somewhere, so with awe was heard, he was discussed, discussed, discussed, anything wise he said was considered a reasonable thing, sometimes it was not even reasonable things, we remember it, Slávek, right? - through Madam President - Mr President. But what is happening now, including with the help of some of us, is simply something that, in my opinion, borders on the attack on parliamentary democracy. I know it sounds weird from the mouth of the Communist, maybe, I also know that I may be criticized for defending bourgeois democracy here. Let everyone think what they want. The fact is, however, that any dictatorship that would threaten, any monarchy that would threaten, any other form of participation of citizens in the administration of its affairs, i.e. relatively democratic, at least relatively free, given only the content of the party treasury or the party sponsors' treasury, that the competition is, after all, a competition of views, a competition of approaches, a competition of civil views, is, after all, the widest possible, is, after all, the most objective, and everything else is very, very limited and reduced by civil rights. I would like to ask that we go back to the beginning of this discussion, think about it from this point of view, which together with the President of the KSČM and Vice-President of the House of Filip, does not sound very often here, let's calm down the passions and let's choose one that might be positive. It must be clearly said that it will not be that Members will reward themselves among themselves. Or that someone will be subjected to a disgraceful assessment by other people, constitutional agents, therefore, by Members and Members. Let's think about whether it wouldn't be a good idea to let this material go on, in the committee and subcommittees concerned, to assess whether it's a complete nonsense, as some here say, and I say that many, a while before they said it, were determined to support the matter. I think those guys got off here too, I don't want to touch anyone's conscience, everyone has that, let them try it on their own. But because the atmosphere at the beginning of the discussion of this point just looks like what it looks like, just like we've leaned towards what the media likes. Right? [[14.40 hours]] Because when they write something bad about us, that the last day of the Chamber of Deputies meeting before the parliamentary holiday was even more - oh, how morbid, oh, how stupid! That's why I'm saying let's get back to the other stuff we have there as quickly as possible. They're not exactly little things. So if we are to act on the last day, let us continue this matter. Let the committees decide, decide, specify, and we can reject the matter at other stages of the legislative process. But let's stop worrying about people and the media and each other here, about something that's gotten a whole different setup than it should be. And in conclusion. If we allow ourselves to be dragged like this, then we will come, not as the Chamber of Deputies, not as institutions, not as Members, but as citizens of this country, not just as a parking lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-008-225.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Jan Zahradník, then Vice-President Bartošek with priority. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-008-225.u6	Mr Vice-President, dear translator, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is a good idea that even such a commemorative medal makes sense. It just seems to me to be quite an experienced municipal and regional politician in this direction, this way as somewhat unhappy. Perhaps it would be better, however this vote will turn out now, and I even think and I fear that this proposal may not pass happily through the process of voting, so that the House's leadership will think about changing the title of the medal a little bit, so that it will be the commemorative medal of the President of the Chamber of Deputies for the merits of parliamentary democracy, so that the President of the House grants it, and that the only act that would, on the outside, show that his decision will be put into the budget of the Office of the President of the House, will give the appropriate amount to produce these medals. And the Speaker of the House will decide who he's giving the medal to. And this will not be discussed in plenary. We will prevent what we representatives in Budějovice witnessed a short time ago at our meeting, where the proposed candidates for the award of the city submitted the praise, the criticism, the vote, the votes were counted on how many votes were considered and I will find difficult or light in the vote. Thank you for your attention. So with this proposal, I come up informally.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-008-225.u7	Thank you, honourable Member. With priority rights, Mr. Vice-President Bartošek. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-008-225.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, when I listen to the debate, the words of Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk came to mind, saying: "We already have democracy here, so that we still have some Democrats. And I, as my colleague Černochová said, through you that I did not respond, it was because I listened to the debate underway, and I took notes so that I could respond to what was said, so that I would not enter into an ongoing debate with you, and we would not go back to some things repeatedly. I took notes, and so allow me to answer them to those questions that have been raised here. I might want to start by saying one more sentence from my introduction, which was that the way in which the Chamber of Deputies and to whom it will award these commemorative medals will also be to some extent a statement about the Chamber of Deputies and the state of democracy in this country. For my part, democracy is not a question of who is from the left or the right spectrum. If someone is a democrat, it's about some values of life, a lifestyle. And I know people from both the right spectrum and the left, who would deserve this award, because they really helped this society in the transition from totalitarian to democratic. But at the same time, I'm saying that the process we're going through is far from over. The question was that this commemorative medal should be awarded to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Believe that we have dealt with the method of granting the subcommittee. We discussed all possibilities, including this one. There were two positions - whether it is given by the President or by the Chamber of Deputies as a whole, because if it is to be a medal of the Chamber of Deputies, let the Chamber of Deputies as a whole comment on this. It is the opinion that was expressed there that was overvoted. For this reason, it was transferred to the Chamber of Deputies to decide on this award by the Chamber of Deputies as a whole. Next, the question was whether we would have to appreciate three people every year. That proposal's up to three people. This means, not that the Chamber of Deputies has to appreciate three people every year, but if they are suitable nominees, it can be up to three people who will be awarded. What else is said here, and I fully agree that the Chamber of Deputies and its main role are legislative. I do not question that, but at the same time I think that the Chamber of Deputies also plays a representative role, whether in the field of foreign delegations, I think that the award of this commemorative medal also has value. Because I think that... and perhaps because of what my previous speakers said. It's like it's still being shown how something's going wrong, how something's not working. I liked the parking comment. But I think that it is important for democracy in this country to work. The Chamber of Deputies with all its shortcomings and everything that we are going through. But unfortunately, as Winston Churchill said, democracy is the worst way of government, but nothing better people have ever invented. Or something like that, I paraphrased it easily. If I continue with these questions, who should be appreciated? When we were thinking in the subcommittee about who should be appreciated, let me remember Václav Havel. We thought that it would be good for them to be people who live, that they are people who really deserved, and that it would be good for them to personally take over this medal as an appreciation that they contributed to this society. There was a question for the Senate. Silver commemorative medals are awarded within the Senate. Just for the sake of order - 25 were granted for 2015 and 17 for 2014 for 2013 18 and 2012 23. Otherwise, it is said that the Silver Commemorative Medal of the Senate has been awarded since 2007 by an important figure from among scientists, artists, athletes and other public officials who excel in their fields or their special actions or abilities. From those awarded I will name a few names here from last year: Professor Delong, scientist, Professor Havlas, chemist, Professor Hejnar, virus researcher, there is Jiří Bartoška, there is also Professor Syka, Rybka, Professor Syka, neurophysiologist, and others. I could name another one. The names are listed on the Senate website. This means that when we approached this from the perspective of the Chamber of Deputies, we really wanted this award to be clearly determined, for the benefit or for the merit of parliamentary democracy. I understand that this appreciation raises great controversy, great passions, and I return it to what I said at the beginning. The debate on how this Chamber of Deputies can appreciate someone is being held here for several parliamentary periods. This time, the subcommittee decided to try to bring this idea to an end and to follow up on the work of the previous Chamber of Deputies, when it succeeded in creating a logo of the Chamber of Deputies, which will be incorporated into graphical representation. So much for me. It is about some personal courage, political courage, and that we can look away from who is from what political party and say that democracy means more to us than just being a member of the political party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-008-225.u9	I thank the Vice-President. I'm asking who else is joining the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for the final word. Not interested. We will proceed to the debate in detail. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-008-225.u10	I will read the motion for a resolution approved by the Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies. What I want to say here for the sake of order is not in the regime that it will be ordered further to the committees for discussion, but either it will be approved or it will be rejected. I will read the motion for a resolution which should be put to the vote: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the motion for a commemorative medal for merit on parliamentary democracy, the honour of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, and the procedure for granting these honours according to the annexes to this resolution'. This is a motion for a resolution which I would then like to put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-008-225.u11	Thank you. I ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. If no one is reporting, I am ending the debate in detail. There's no interest in the final word. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. I'll check you all out and call our colleagues from the lobby. [[He's waiting for a while.]] We will vote on the resolution, as Vice-President Bartošek put it. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? The vote is serial number 224, registered 129 Members, for 52, against 35. The motion was not accepted. I thank the Vice-President and conclude on this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-008-225.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, as a Democrat, I respect the decision of the Chamber of Deputies. It was a process that lasted a few parliamentary periods, maybe it will happen sometime in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-008-225.u13	I thank the Vice-President. We'll continue with the next point. The President of the TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek reports with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-008-225.u14	Through the President, Mr Vice-President Bartošek, we do not have a medal to give to you, but we want to thank you for really trying because we believe that you really meant well. We who voted against - there was absolutely nothing personal about our position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-07-13-ps2013-048-06-008-225.u15	Thank you. We'll continue with the next point, which is the interrupted point.
