ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-004-006.u1	6. Government bill amending Act No. 56/2001 Coll., on the conditions of operation of vehicles on roads and on the amendment of Act No. 168/1999 Coll., on liability insurance for damage caused by the operation of the vehicle and amending certain related laws (Act on liability insurance from the operation of the vehicle), as amended by Act No. 307/1999 Coll., as amended, and other related laws /house print 683/ - second reading We discussed this House press on 7 September 2016 at the 49th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when, on a proposal from the rapporteur, Martin Kolovratník, we interrupted him and adjourned him until the next proper meeting. The general debate has not been initiated. On 7 September, under the authority of the Government, Mr Dan Ťok, the Minister of Transport, and the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Martin Kolovratník, spoke and gave the opening statement, which I would like to ask them to take their place at the rapporteur's table. If they are not interested in a re-enactment - the Minister is interested. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-004-006.u2	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, the draft bill tabled brings, in particular, a change in the local competence of the municipal authorities of the municipalities with an extended scope for the implementation of entries in the road vehicle register, the approval of the technical competence of the individually produced and individually imported vehicle and the construction of vehicles, following the model of the trade law. The local jurisdiction, which has been established by the registered office or residence of the operator, is proposed to revoke and leave the choice of the competent authority to the applicant, i.e. the application can be lodged with any municipal authority of the municipality with extended competence. In the case of registration operations, the proposed step is enabled in particular by the gradual electronisation of documents attached to applications for registration, linked to the previous amendment of Act No. 56/2001 Coll. In conjunction with this step, the overall revenue from administrative charges is not expected to be reduced, but a certain redistribution of operations and associated charges between the municipal authorities concerned is expected to increase the concentration of operations in larger cities. The proposed step will bring positive effects on natural and legal persons, mainly linked to financial, time and administrative savings. Another aim of the bill is to eliminate some of the partial shortcomings and gaps of Act No. 56/2001 Coll. following its amendment by Act 239/2013 Coll. In addition to the above proposed amendments, the necessary implementation of the law of the European Union, namely the adaptation of the law to the EU regulation on requirements for tractors and forestry and agricultural machinery, wheels and tricycles, was also introduced in the preparation of the proposal. The Economic Committee formally adopted 21 amendments to the 683 press. The Ministry of Transport agreed with part of them, not part of them. Here, let me mention in particular the fact that part of these amendments is heading towards the partial implementation of the European Directive on periodic vehicle technical inspections. I am aware that, in particular, the issue of organizational security of the performance of technical inspections, i.e. the maintenance of STK and SEM, these are emission control stations, has become the subject of intensive discussions with representatives of station operators and the subject of conflict of views on the correct procedure. The Ministry of Transport is aware of the controversy associated with this area and also sees the concerns of the operators of the STK and SEM associated with the implementation of the European Directive. We have therefore repeatedly communicated with the representatives of the European Commission over the past two months to see what solutions to the organisation of carrying out technical inspections are still acceptable to the Commission in terms of compatibility with the Directive. The last meeting took place last Friday and there is an alternative option for merging STK and SEM. On this basis, the Ministry of Transport will prepare material for inter-ministerial commentary proceedings in a short time. In view of the above, I consider it more appropriate to wait for a government proposal to address comprehensively the implementation of Directive 2014/45/EU. I would add that my negotiations with the Commissioner have shown that there is no requirement for merging, and we are looking today for a way in which both things could work separately, with the fact that all the provisions of that European directive need to be complied with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-004-006.u3	Thank you, Minister. I am opening a general debate to which Mr Martin Kolovratník was the first rapporteur. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-004-006.u4	Colleagues, colleagues, good evening. I, therefore, am now in the general debate, so I will not be acting as rapporteur, but perhaps I can only recall the timing of the negotiations. The Economic Committee has a deadline for the submission of a proposal by 17 August, namely the resolution mentioned, a comprehensive proposal or an extended amendment by the Economic Committee, is already listed in the system under number 683/2, where you can read its content. I would say for myself that there are about two such main areas addressed and discussed. One area, as was also dealt with in the Economic Committee, concerns so-called historical vehicles, to which he has dealt with and asked a colleague, a Member, and also Vice-Chairman of the Milan Urban Committee. Now I see in the system that there is an additional amendment to Jeroným Tejc's proposal, so I assume that the colleague himself may have it in general or then in a detailed debate, when he applies, comments and explains what is meant by the refinement. I confirm for myself the Minister's words that we have spent quite a long time in committee on the technical solution of how to determine or determine how to proceed newly in the issue of licensing, i.e. procedure, virtually. numbers and quantity of how many technical inspection stations, respectively. emission measurement stations will be present in the Czech Republic. At this stage, if none of you are interested in this, there is probably no need to go into detail here in plenary and continue to explain everything in detail, although of course I am ready for it and I am happy to do it now or during the third reading. I would like to say for myself that, so far, with the procedure which has received great support from the Economic Committee, of the 18 votes in favour present, I am still in agreement. I'm sure I'm ready to continue to discuss my position with the Ministry of Transport. Perhaps now I will just add - and apply to the amendments - that, therefore, in communication and joint preparation with legislation from the Ministry of Transport, I have prepared two further amendments to the system, which will alleviate, virtually. improve the wording of the Economic Committee. The first concerns the entry into force, respectively. the validity of the law. You may well remember that he's been here in the House for a really long time, it's our debt to executives since December 15th, so we've already de facto missed out, so forgive me for the expression, the deadline for the entry into force and the entry into practice of the law. That is why we have chosen the so-called floating deadline, where we say that this would be from the first day of the third month after the declaration of the law in the Collection. The second proposal reflects some of the comments of the Ministry of Transport and introduces them into the law in the transitional provisions. In particular, this concerns firstly the possibility of carrying out an inspection of the technical equipment of the STK at any time during their existence, i.e. even if they theoretically move, and in the latter case gives a simplified half-year deadline just for emission measurement stations to join the online system. Well, that's just a brief thing to do for the next set of intentions. In a detailed debate, I will then sign up for the amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-004-006.u5	Thank you, Mr Kolovratník. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. Not interested. I do not see the proposal for a re-negotiation of the law to the guarantee committee and I am initiating a detailed debate, which was also the first Mr Martin Kolovratník. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-004-006.u6	At this point, I am not going to hold back, and I am merely going to apply to my amendments that are being tabled in the system. I therefore apply to Amendment 4857, and I also apply to Amendment 5129 and finally to Amendment 5130.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-004-006.u7	Thank you. Another party to the detailed debate is Mr Jeroným Tejc. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-004-006.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, let me apply to Amendment 5134. For the sake of completeness, I add that this is an amendment drafted in cooperation with Mr Urban and at the same time with the Ministry of Transport, the Legislative Department, with the agreement of the Minister, who was kind enough to mediate the communication. This is an adjustment to what has already been adopted on the Economic Committee in relation to veterans, let us understand veterans' vehicles. What aroused emotions was the implementation that was chosen and that is why we agreed with the legislation of the Ministry of Transport on how to fulfil the purpose that has already been given and to do so in a way that it is legally, technically and functionally possible. Basically, it's two basic things. Today, if you have a vehicle that's a veteran, it's registered on those white plates, so if you want to convert it into a special mode, into a historical vehicle mode, to those green plates marked V, then you can do it by checking the vehicle out of the vehicle register, but in order to unsubscribe it, you have to then ecologically dispose of it. Then you don't have anything to write into that historical vehicle register anymore, because the vehicle doesn't exist. So we're fixing this to make it possible, the transition between the different registers. The second problem that arises with tightening up the technical checks, which are definitely in order, but can occur with historical vehicles, is that these vehicles are registered, they should meet all the conditions of operation, but unfortunately no one remembers that the vehicles were manufactured 40, 50 years ago and are registered on the original brands. Therefore, the law introduces a model where these vehicles will be technically tested, tested in the same way as the vehicles in operation, but will be taken into account as to what the original requirements for their operation were. So it is again a thing that should allow the jewels of our roads not to disappear just because they do not comply with the strictest regimes applicable to today's vehicles. It's a step towards historic vehicles, their owners. I believe that this is a step in the right direction. I hope to support this proposal, which, as I say, has been developed across the spectrum and supported. So in that sense, it's a collective proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-004-006.u9	Thank you, Mr Tejc. I ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. If there is no such person, I will conclude a detailed debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. There is no interest, I do not see any proposals for a vote and I end the second reading of this bill. The next item is the item number
