ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u1	17. Government bill amending Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on preschool, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education (school law), as amended, and Act No. 200/1990 Coll., on infractions, as amended / House print 611/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft law will be introduced by the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Kateřina Valachová. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, given that I have presented in detail the proposal in the first reading, I am simply briefly reminding for second reading that the bill concerns pre-school education, the gradual introduction of pre-school education rights from 4 and from 3 years of age, compulsory pre-school education from 5 to 6 years of age, it also covers the uniform entrance exam for secondary schools and also the common part of the graduation exam from Czech language and literature, foreign language and mathematics, up to 2020/2021. The present proposal was discussed by the Education Committee, some parametric shifts took place within individual headings, as well as amendments were supported by the Education Committee concerning other legislative technical and practical problems from practice or the possibility of forest schools entering the school register. That's enough for an introduction for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. At first reading, we ordered the proposal to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee and the committee resolution was delivered as House Presses 611/1 to 3. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Mrs Bohdalová, take the floor. There has been a change in the rapporteur because Mr Kořenek apologizes and is ill. Since we're at second reading, we don't have to vote on it. I will ask the Member to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in committee and to justify any amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u4	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. This press 611 was discussed in the subcommittee on regional education and was discussed in detail in the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. All possible amendments have been discussed, voted on, and a resolution was finally adopted at the 23rd meeting of 3 February 2016 and I will brief you on this resolution. The Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, following the reasoning of the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, Kateřina Valachová, Kořenko the Chamber of Deputies to agree with the Government Bill amending Act No. 561/2014 Coll., on pre-school, basic, higher vocational and other education, school law, as amended, and Act No. 200/1990 Coll., on offenses, as amended, press 611, as amended by these amendments, as you have these amendments in the Chambers of Press No. 611/3. I'm not gonna read them all here because there's about seven pages of them. I think that colleagues in their speeches will introduce you to them, and I would like to enter into a detailed debate afterwards.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u5	I thank you, Madame, and I am opening up a general debate in which I record eight applications. I will now ask Mrs Nina Nováková to speak in the debate, and Mrs Marta Semelová will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in a detailed debate, I will apply to three amendments in total, but now allow me to make a brief comment on what I will not express in the form of amendments, and this is still a bowed inclusion, or, I think, more appropriate, joint education. Ladies and gentlemen, we should have started inclusion a few years ago. The inclusion does not apply only to pupils who have specific needs in the direction of, say, some disability or disability to health or mental, but also to pupils who have specific needs because they are talented. This also applies to pupils who have a different mother tongue than the Czech language. And we should have started with all that. I would also like to draw attention to one thing. For example, it is often said that inclusion is definitely not about eight-year or multi-annual grammar schools. Ladies and gentlemen, which one of you has been to school in the last few years knows that these are also relevant. So there is no school that doesn't concern the need for inclusion. However, I dare say, there is no school that has a sufficiently staffed professional team that is required to be present in the school next to the professional educators. Now let me try to explain my amendments. The first amendment I apply to is nothing new from me. Its content is a disagreement with the introduction of compulsory education into the final year of kindergarten. We juggle here with the concepts of attendance and compulsory education. I repeat once again, there is no restriction on parental rights regarding education other than compulsory schooling in our education system. And by some expression of compulsory preschool education, we can't fool that. So the way I see it is that if there is an obligation, it is wrong and we interfere with the rights of parents. On the other hand, I strongly support the possibility for each parent to have a guaranteed, guaranteed right to place his child at the preschool age of five, or even better from four and perhaps in the future from three years. This is the first amendment. [[18.10 hours]] The second amendment may be a little distant for you, but since I have worked and worked in high school, I am constantly in contact with young people, so I would like to support this amendment with their great will to participate more in the running of the school. We've been talking here long enough about the need to strengthen civil education. I thank the Ministry of Education for this very much, which has created a working group, and in short, many of us across the political parties know that it is really important for pupils to be led to be independent citizens. When they try to do something themselves and have the opportunity by law to create such an autonomous body of the student or student self-government, I would like to ask you for the support of my amendment, which actually extends the number of partners for these institutions of the student and student self-government to parents, founders and educators, or school board. In the law, pupils still have the right to address their suggestions and suggestions of the Director and he is obliged to deal with it. I'm not saying he's obliged to listen, but he's supposed to deal with it. I would like to propose in my amendment that their initiatives should also be dealt with by the school board. It would be presumptuous of me to say that this is only my idea, it is discussed with the Czech High School Union, the Czech Council of Children and Youth, that they all really want to participate in making the school environment the best possible. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Third amendment. - I would dare to ask my favourite Mr Schwarz to concentrate, through the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u7	If you don't mind my asking you, Mr. Ambassador, not to disturb the lady's speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u8	The third amendment, which I would like to put your attention to, concerns something that was not originally in the MŠMT's intention, but I think that is something that is very resonating in our society. Ladies and gentlemen, we have in some sort of preamble, or rather the general principles and objectives of education right at the beginning of the school law generally spoken, so that it does not concern the study or anything like that, and formulated the principles and objectives of our education system. I would like to propose, to one point, point C in Section 2, where the objectives of education are referred to as understanding and application of the principles of democracy and the rule of law, fundamental human rights and so on, I would like to suggest that pupils should be guided to understand and apply the principles of the fulfilment of civil obligations. It kind of has something to do with what I was talking about earlier. It is because I believe that it is not possible for us to just stress from a young age what rights they have, but that it is essential that we also sometimes tell them that they have some responsibilities and shape them in this sense. The second part, which I would like to propose as a change in educational objectives, is, I must say, very important for myself. Ladies and gentlemen, in the general objectives of education, we have the objective of knowledge of world and European cultural values and traditions and the formation of respect and so on. I believe it is the right time to say that it is right to know the world's cultural values and traditions, if this is at the level of knowledge, to get the best information about it. Only this level of learning should not, however, concern European values and traditions. In my reasoning, I would like to point out that the school as a public service is actually the most influential and versatile and systemic integrating institutions in the society of this country. That is why I think that all our pupils, whatever nationality they are, whatever culture they come from, should be led to understand and adopt the principles of European cultural values and traditions in our schools, which are recognised by our educational system. This is in no way affected by religious freedom or anything. At the same time, I do not want to say that when I talk about European values and traditions, and I talk about three fundamental sources of European values and traditions, and when I name Christianity among those sources, I do not want to say in any way that our children are to be led to Christianity as a Christian religion. I personally believe that religion does not belong at all in schools, that we are to learn about religion, but not to learn about religion. Now, once again, what I'm specifically suggesting there. The educational objective is to understand and adopt European cultural values and the traditions of humanism based on the spiritual legacy of antiquity and Christianity. Humanism in several historical stages actually connects the legacy of antiquity and Christianity and gradually sets out some three basic circles that we talk about when we talk about our state, and that is where we must maintain freedom, in what is absolute equality and in what we have to be solidarity. And it is this humanism that stands on the spiritual legacy of the antiquity, because the legacy of the antiquity includes trust in the intellectual knowledge of the world, the permanent presence of moral principles, and the awareness of the co-responsibleness of citizens for the state and the state's establishment. The legacy of Roman law includes pursuit of justice. There is also a requirement that no legal standards conflict with reasonable practice or with higher moral principles. And the legacy of Christianity includes social sensitivity, the willingness to help the weakened, consistent respect for human dignity, the provision of a chance to correct mistakes, the ability to forgive. There is also a fundamental addition to life and positive human emotions and the resulting effort to bring about a constructive and peaceful resolution of conflicts. [[There's still a lot of noise in the room, especially in the left side.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I often hear about the basics of humanitarian education when I lecture seniors that they say, "Yeah, I'm an atheist, but I'm actually a Christian atheist, and in all of us, this is something. I dare ask you to sign up to these values and traditions at the beginning of the school law. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u9	Thank you, Madame. I am now registering the application for registration first to the rapporteur and then to Mrs Putnová's point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to join the general debate later, but since my colleague was talking about the mandatory last year of kindergarten school and she was talking about the fact that what we have so far in the law is that children are entering the kindergarten from three years of age, so when we were discussing the whole law after the meeting of the school committee, we still took the liberty of preparing an amendment based on practice. By allowing a three-speed maternity leave, many mothers return to work after two years for financial reasons and because they need to continue their profession. These mothers would often receive two-year-olds, but this is not yet possible, because in Section 34 para. 1 school law is a formulation - usually from 3 to 6 years. I will then apply to my amendment, which deals with the fact that pre-school education would start at about two years, from two to six years old, and would be entitled to a child's entry into kindergarten at two years old. I can hear it now - and I know it myself - as you say, but there aren't any places. We're aware of that. That's why you've studied the school bill, so you've got there that first it's five years old, then you're entitled to children from four years old, one year after another. And since we know and have been calculated, we dare to suggest that this right would apply from 1. 9. 2020 so that municipalities and schools can prepare for this legislation. Then I'll read it in a detailed debate. But now that there was talk of pre-school education, I wanted to draw your attention to the content of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u11	Thank you. I'll read the note. Today, before the end of the day, Mr Stanjura apologizes. I'm recording two factual points. First Mrs Putnová, after that, Mr Pavera. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u12	Good evening. Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, however much we will only express our support for the amendments in the third reading, I think that what Mrs Nováková has said as her third amendment deserves attention is the anchoring of humanitarian European values in the preamble to our education system. Remember, for example. for a scarf affair. At a time when it was discussed as the predecessor of the Minister, whether or not women or girls are allowed to walk in shrouds, such a comical and undignified reasoning was raised by the Ministry of Education, e.g. that in chemistry classes scarves can be an obstacle. Why not say that the Czech school is not only a house where children receive neutral objective information, but it is a place that also shapes them? It's called parenting. It brings mental and moral development and it is built on values. And there is nothing strange in the Czech school when we demand that European values based on humanism be passed on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u13	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Pavera. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u14	Nice and good evening, dear colleagues and colleagues. Madam Minister, Mr President, I would only briefly respond to my colleague Mrs Nováková and to the rapporteur, Mrs Bohdalová. Of course there are kindergartens in every village, there are schools. And as a parent, because I have two children, I have experience with children who go to kindergarten and who don't go to kindergarten. Personally, I oppose the requirement for children to go to kindergarten from the age of five, even for one simple reason - because some children simply do not want to go there or do not need to go there. And my daughter didn't just go to kindergarten, graduated from college, and successfully communicates with people as well as those who went to kindergarten. It's individual. Really ordering something, I think it's completely pointless. Also, what the rapporteur has said here - to introduce compulsory school attendance from the age of two. Yes, but then you have to tell A that you will give money to other children's care, that there will be more teachers, because two-year-olds require much more care than three-year-olds, who often can't even go to the bathroom and have to take care of them by themselves. Maybe you don't even know it, so go to those kindergartens and see how they take care of those kids there and how much the teacher has to do to teach those kids in the first year of schooling everything children have to do! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u15	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Vácha. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u16	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to the rapporteur. I would just like to remind you that she was the Deputy Minister for Education for Social Democracy. And during its reign in České Budějovice the optimization of the number of kindergartens in the city was promoted and kindergartens were interrupted in České Budějovice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u17	Thank you. The rapporteur is now reporting for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u18	It's been following me through my entire political life. It's 1998. In České Budějovice there are 668 places available in kindergarten schools. At the same time, a new health legislation is approved. The City Council of České Budějovice and the City Council decided to limit the operation in kindergartens. The buildings didn't sell. And now that there was a need for places, they're going back to their original purpose, that is, kindergarten. We all say that we should act in our political positions with care of the proper economy. At the time, we needed money to improve the quality of children living in those kindergartens, what hygiene made up for us - touchless batteries, etc. So we had to limit the 668 seats. We fixed kindergarten for that. But I have to say - and no one will say that again. I was talking about two-year-olds. During my time in Budějovice there was no cancellation of the nursery. There were 110 seats left in the nursery, and the nursery is expanding today. So I guess it's gonna follow me around my whole life. Yes, I know that I've been optimized by a network of kindergartens. But it optimized because 668 places were empty!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u19	Thank you. Now, with Mrs Černochová's priority right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, let me also justify one of the amendments made by my colleague, Marek Benda, who has apologized, and to which I will, of course, sign up in a detailed debate. But for me to perform here, too, with the experience that I have as a long-time municipal politician. I would like to start by saying that the Municipal Part of Prague 2, which I am the mayor of, is the founder and the manger. Prague 2 gives parents the luxury of setting up a nursery, so we have provided care for these children. We have eight, respectively. Nine kindergartens, we have ten primary schools. I think I can speak to this subject with my experience - and the Minister, who visited us in Prague 2 from the beginning of January, passed with me two primary schools, kindergarten and knows how it works in Prague 2. I therefore strongly warn against this - and I join the proposals that have been said and justified by colleagues from TOP 09 in order to actually introduce a compulsory year of education in the form it was submitted. Let's not steal children from our parents. Every parent has a right, every mom -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u21	I apologize, Madame, for entering into your speech, but I will ask you, colleagues, to keep your voice down. And if you have something important, go deal with it in the lobby. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u22	Thank you. Every mom, every dad, has the option and the right, his parental right, to take advantage of those days before entering compulsory school, i.e. first grade primary school, and he can and has the right to be with his child and raise that child. With this draft law, this parental right is withdrawn from parents and this right is taken upon by the State. I don't see a single reason, and there isn't one strong argument that we should support this as the Civil Democratic Party. I'm going to give you another example that has been raised here, which is completely irrelevant. Supposedly this issue, as proposed, will solve the problem in so-called. socially excluded localities. That's not true. How are you gonna get those parents to bring those kids to kindergarten? What happens in practice? What happens in practice is that paper - paper - you keep those children in your mother's books, but no one can physically show them to you. So, on the other hand, parents who want to sign up for their child in kindergarten won't be there for them, because our kindergarten will be full of children, paper children, who unfortunately, because of irresponsibleness, parents decide not to bring them to kindergarten. There was a discussion about whether this topic, the subject of preschool education, compulsory preschool education could be linked in some way to social benefits, so that those parents who do not want or cannot, or are looking for reasons why they would not take their child to kindergarten, so that the state would have some executive power to enforce this obligation. By being a provision which interferes with personal rights, it is a provision which affects the Constitution of the Czech Republic, so it is not possible to link social benefits with this obligation. And you know it. So in practice, it doesn't really bring anything. It doesn't help anybody at all. On the contrary, you will make life difficult for parents who want to give their child to kindergarten because there will be no room for them. What do we have self-government for? I think that every mayor and deputy mayor who pursues the field of education as I do in Prague 2 has an overview of the needs of his inhabitants and is able to, if he is capable or able, be able to saturate the needs of these citizens. Also, I never thought I'd be a right-wing politician that we'd keep a nursery in Prague 2 this long. Now I'm not bumping into the words of our former President Václav Klaus that it's a left-wing decoration. I just think that we are living in the 21st century and that there are a lot of women who are in the work process, but also men, not only women, to avoid discrimination, there are a lot of parents who want to go into the process early, which, of course, force them to do it for economic reasons, but also other reasons. A woman has a run-in business, she decides to come back, or she can't afford to have someone else in that business for a long time. So we're the service organizations as self-government for the parents. But don't force us to do it by law. Any one of us who sits in that town hall for a while so walks among the people, lives in his community, lives in his own district and knows that if he does not do what the needs of the people are, he will not be elected in the next elections. Yes, even in Prague 2, we optimized in the past when the demographic development was really low. This is consistent, and I can confirm the words of the rapporteur, Mrs Bohdalová, that really demographic developments in those years were very low, we did not go the way of interference, we went the way of merging primary schools with the fact that the buildings were preserved. And today, we even used one of those new buildings for school. So these rumors, like one of the opposition always says, "They're gonna sell it." They're gonna make it a hotel. They just don't know what. Then no such thing is true. Always in education, these changes create enormous emotions in citizens, in parents, they care about the most valuable things they have at home, about their children. And I really beg that the reasonable of you, try, hate to give someone homework, but if I may ask, before the third reading, colleagues and colleagues, you are each in your region, you have your own parliamentary office there, you have your days there. [[Fun especially in the left side of the hall.]] Take advantage of that parliamentary week, or at least that parliamentary Monday, and go to some kindergarten, talk to the relevant principal or director and ask them for an opinion. Ask them what they think of this bill. I really don't know any of our pre-school facilities in my area that would support this proposal. These are people who have 20-, 30-year experience from our education. They are also women who may have studied special pedagogy and who know that the argument that a child learns to eat cutlery and may be in the collective is completely odd. These things, these skills, these skills, they have to be learned by the child much sooner than they were at the age of five. I don't think any of you can argue with that. There are studies that are publicly available. Please go to kindergartens in your districts before the third reading, talk to the management and support the proposal, which is presented not only by me, but also by colleagues and colleagues from TOP 09. You will be able to choose from different options. I don't think it's complicated. My colleague Nina Nováková mentioned inclusion here. Yes, inclusion is a huge problem in our education. Speaking of Prague 2, I would also like to mention that the Minister has visited schools where inclusive programs have been going on for years. I think what the principal said, too, has learned some lessons from it. Prague 2 has never rejected children for inclusion with any health disability. We build wheelchair elevators where we can. On the other hand, we are a Prague sightseeing reserve on half the territory. On the second half of the territory we are a landmark zone. So the incriminating paragraph and paragraph of that paragraph, which will order the founders to always ensure what the parent imagines, that is, when to some school where I can't build a barrier-free elevator, because the landlords won't let me do it, and the parent will choose this school for his child and the child will be in some inclusive program, so I'm afraid that both the directors and we as founders will face a number of lawsuits, because we won't be able to comply with the parents. And the fact that Prague 2 is really trying to suit my parents as much as it can, perhaps the secretary will confirm that. But not everywhere it goes. And please, let's not make these directors sheep. They're managers. These are people who have adequate education, who have experience, who actually pursue a profession that I highly appreciate. And these people are getting completely sidetracked. It is not possible in our education to admit that the founders and teachers will have to adapt to everything. We're trying to accommodate. We're doing everything we can. But to adapt and to make senseless decisions is simply not in our power. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] None of my previous speakers have mentioned the financial implications yet. Do I really think that the financial effects, whether in the context of inclusive education or also in the context of the compulsory year of education, of the last year in kindergarten - will be what? Can the Minister or the rapporteur answer me what will be the financial demands, who will be to those municipalities, the founders of these facilities, who will pay for it? You know, it's so modern, and I'm not saying that we're--
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u23	Again, I apologise, Madame, for entering into your speech, but I will ask the particularly left part of the hall to keep it down. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u24	Thank you. I'm not saying that we didn't do it at some point when we were in the government, but the impacts, the impacts on self-government, they're huge, and we have to stop this, we have to stop -- sorry about how you started talking here, so you pulled me out of context -- so I just wanted to stress that the delegation of powers without delegation of funds has to stop. I do not know if the Minister has ever participated in budget discussions in the field of education at the borders, when unfortunately it is happening that he still has - I am talking about the capital of Prague, we are the city part of the capital city of Prague - so the funds are becoming less and less. I was just signing a resolution where, more or less, we're just -- it's mandatory expenses where you don't have...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u25	Colleagues and colleagues, we are discussing a very important standard and that is the school law. I'm going to ask you to keep your voice down, and if you have something important, really respect it and go to the lobby, because otherwise I'm going to start naming those who cancel this point, namely. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u26	Where was I...? I'm done funding, thank you. As I was saying, I wonder if the Minister has ever participated in budget discussions concerning the relevant urban areas. Maybe she's interested in the South Moravian region. I, of course, am interested in this as mayor of Prague 2 and a Member for the Prague region in our capital. There's a huge financial deficit going on here. And we're in a situation where I can't - because it's actually signed by the Authority as a founder - approved by the relevant council of the district - so I can't even give the directors what they deserve. I can't give them the full value of the so-called leadership bonus, because if I did that, you know what's gonna happen? Nobody's running the school, the subject, even though it's a management fee, which - the man is the headmaster, he's running the school, so he's entitled to the full management fee. But if I give it to him in full, I'll tell you exactly what's going to happen. What's going to happen is that he's not going to get it, he's not going to raise the amount that's coming to us, and that principal is going to be forced to take the funds at the expense of someone else in the package. So the principal's gonna do better, but he's not gonna get any more money, so he's gonna have to take the money and cut the optional part of his salary and take it away from the other educators. And you can't ask us to do this, Madam Secretary, to play the role of founders with such insufficient funds, when even at this time, as my fellow Members have spoken about it... at this time, when the educational process really matters so much. No less matters to the parents, I'd turn it around. It's always the family in education that comes first. Except in some other place, there might be a school. These matters are crucial to me. They're crucial because we're talking about things that affect school law today, and I don't know when this law will be opened here the next time. And I would really like everyone who has something to do with these authorities and you care about having high-quality educators in those schools, so that you can help the mayors in this. Because the system isn't set up properly, and it's not just the wiring surcharge, where, as I described a moment ago, the incident where this is happening. This is also happening with personal supplements. I can't put a full rate on a personal supplement, even though I'd like to, if I don't do it from the city's budget, which I'm afraid I'm doing. . [[Mr Schwarz disagrees]] My colleague Schwarz yells at me that this is nonsense. It's not. Mr Schwarz, through the Vice-President, please take a look not only at kindergarten but also at elementary school next week and ask. It may be different in your region than in Prague, but I don't really get funding from the capital city of Prague, because it tells me that they don't get them out of the Ministry of Education in full and we just have to hate to touch the teachers in this way, unfortunately. If we can change this matter, I'd be very happy. As far as mandatory files are concerned, those listed as non-facultative are concerned, there is a colleague named Schwarz right. That's where we really need to be on the payroll - so that's where the amount must be. But those files are really faculty and non-fakultative. And where it is...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u27	I'm going to ask you, colleagues and colleagues, once again, to keep it down. Ambassador, sit down in the bench, I'll ask you to listen carefully to what's being lectured here. . And I'm begging you, Mrs. Černochová, continue. [[The President is heading to the benches of the members of the YES]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u28	Thank you. I would really like to know and to know the answers to questions which, on the one hand, concern the effectiveness of this law in terms of what it will bring. If it brings anything to the parents, if it brings something to the Ministry of Education, if it brings something to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Because there will be really fewer people on different aids, and suddenly the system will change, and the parents will say, "Okay, so we, when the secretary is a sympathetic lady, will we decide to bring these kids to the kindergarten"? What does the Ministry of Education expect from this proposal? How can he be sure that the children will actually be brought to kindergarten by their parents? I went through all our kindergartens, and as I was saying, we have nine of them, and we have them at 16 detached workplaces, and not one principal, not one kindergarten teacher disagrees with this proposal. Everyone is desperately turning to me and saying, "What are we supposed to do, who are we supposed to meet?" I say, write to the Members, contact your legislator. It's not just Prague. But do we really want to destroy something that works? Why do we want to destroy something that works? Consider that educators are still among those who are least rated financially. And we constantly raise other responsibilities to them. And we're not gonna kid ourselves that parents aren't more demanding. I've intervened with the Minister of Education in a request that would make life easier for our children and our parents. Unfortunately, although it is a sub-legal standard, it could be decided directly by the Minister and it would not have to go into law, so apart from getting a decent answer from the Minister, nothing happened. But these are exactly the proposals that I am writing to the Minister and which I think could be an asset, not like this proposal. But that's not gonna happen. Unfortunately, this will not be reflected in our education system. [[18.50 hours]] As I'm sure many of you remember, back in the '70s after the Husákův children's boom, when they started getting into kindergarten, kindergarten and going through that educational system, it was a complete disaster to get anywhere on the mountain. There were no other mountains at the time, or there were no mountains other than the Giant Mountains or the Šumava Mountains. [[Voice from the O.R. to Beskyd!]] . Beskyd. Yes, to Beskydy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u29	I am asking you, Mr Member, not to shout for Mrs Černochová, both you and other Members.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u30	Although I would expect my colleague Birke - by your means - to say the Orlické Mountains. Anyway, there were mountains in Bohemia, Moravia and Silesia, perhaps in Slovakia, but unfortunately the mountains were so crowded that it was necessary to set a period of two weeks when children took turns in Prague. It was always said - then Prague was 1 to 10 - so Prague 1 to 5 will go on this date, Prague 5 to 10 will go on another date. And what didn't happen? Everyone took turns, everyone went back from the mountains happy. But this old rule of law still remains. And you know what's causing this to parents? That one child goes to eight-year-old grammar school in Prague 5 and another child goes to elementary school in Prague 9, so those parents have to separate two weeks from their vacation so that they can take both children to the mountains or to another holiday. I wrote to the Minister that this really seems quite redundant to me, because today the opportunity for parents and their children to go anywhere on spring break, not only, praise God, the Czech Republic and the countries of the Warsaw Treaty, is really wide and I would not be afraid that there would be snow on one hill, one mountain, and there would be no snow. This is something that I think would help my parents, not by hurting them by stealing their baby. I know a lot, and I have a lot of friends who are now on maternity leave with a third kid and don't want to give a baby to the last year of kindergarten because they want to enjoy motherhood and find it unsolid and unfair to burden them and use the system for themselves when they're on maternity leave, at the expense of another single mom. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] As you know, the obligation to place children in preschools for self-government is already in effect. It was our government that suggested that... at the time of the babyboom...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u31	I'll start by naming Members who cancel the speech. As I said before, respect the fact that he lectures here on the issue. And I call on you, Madame, to some extent to discipline, to speak more specifically to the law. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u32	Vice-President, I think we have a bill to amend Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on preschool, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education, so-called school law. Can you tell me from what I've said here one thing that doesn't concern me? I'm in pre-school education so far. I mentioned basic education lightly. Wait till I get to those secondary and higher vocational schools.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u33	In that case, please proceed if you are convinced that you are speaking to the point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u34	Well, at least I think my colleagues are having fun. [[Laughs in the hall.]] The members of the government coalition also nod to me that they enjoy it and that they want to hear stories from Prague 2 about how education works in Prague 2. And I'll hope...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u35	I beg you, Madame, to continue, and I call on other colleagues and colleagues to keep your voice down. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u36	Thank you. So I would go back to the fact that, on the basis of a change in the law of the school under our government, the authorities were obliged to provide a place in kindergarten for children who are preschoolers, although the places in kindergarten were completely full, so those municipalities had to deal with it on the basis of this regulation. They deal with almost everything the Ministry of Education or other departments propose, and here they have to deal with it at the expense of buildings in primary schools. And as the rapporteur, Mrs Bohdalová, has just said here - in order to get her back into the game and to get her entertained - so within the optimizations and reductions of some of the school facilities, we have just paid off that those buildings have remained for the school subjects and pre-school education that we had as a self-government obligation to provide, we could have placed in those primary schools. And it had one big positive effect for the parents and for the directors, and the effect was that the five-year-old had already started to go into the big building, usually already had classmates there, with whom he then joined the first year, when he got to the age when he joined the first class, and we actually solved the very excess capacity in primary schools and we had a problem with those kindergarten schools. In fact, not even mentioned in this law, but among pre-school education - I think it is certainly useful for municipalities to have so-called boarding schools in their territory. And here again, I can say a very positive experience that one of our kindergartens has a boarding school and this kindergarten is a really big service, a huge service for parents who work, whether it be security forces, armed congregations. And these are really things that no one, neither Madam Secretary nor its predecessors, had to order, here we really, as representatives of the self-government, said that we wanted to buy a building where it would be possible to run such a facility, we didn't even ask for any money from anyone, because we are the urban part that isn't trying to burden the state budget, and that boarding school works. This method of education is not even described here, nor is it mentioned here in what Mrs Nováková said in the preambles. Personally, I think that this should certainly be useful for every mayor just because unfortunately, dear colleagues who are still listening to me sometimes happen, and maybe it's happening to some of you, and maybe it happened to you today, because you're here because you were unable to get to kindergarten on time for your child. Did that happen to any of you? If not, but certainly like mayors and local politicians, do you know that it happens sometimes, and then what happens? The relevant director or teacher with the child must wait until the arrival of the parents, or she may call the Police of the Czech Republic and the Police of the Czech Republic in these cases unfortunately calls kangaroos and other devices, and the child unhappy without the parents, in kindergarten forgotten, ends up in a kangaroo. And I'm proud that it can't happen with us, because we just have a boarding school, so if any of the parents of Prague 2 were to do this, we're always trying to talk to the principal at the Spanish kindergarten. [[19.00 hours]] In Spanish, it is a house that is actually very beautiful. We are glad that the Czech Railways sold it to us years ago and that we can operate pre-school facilities there. And I think that if the Minister next time too, but again I don't want to usurp the Minister only for Prague 2, the Minister will definitely want to visit not only other parts of the city but also other regions in the Czech Republic, but if he is interested, the operation of the kindergarten -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u37	I'm sorry to enter your speech, but it's 7:00. Given that we have not agreed to the negotiations after 19 o'clock, I will be forced to interrupt the negotiations on this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u38	I'm sorry. I'll finish my performance next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-10-ps2013-039-08-013-017.u39	Thank you. I'm interrupting this point. Before I interrupt the meeting by tomorrow morning, I'll read the note. From 19.45 until the end of the day, Mr Karel Fiedler apologizes for reasons of work, and from 19.00 to the end of the day, Mr Ivan Gabal apologizes. Thank you, honourable Members. I'm interrupting this meeting until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. I wish you the rest of the day.
