ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u1	211. Government bill amending Act No. 159/2006 Sb., on conflict of interest, as amended, and other related laws /house print 564/ - third reading I ask that Minister Dienstbier and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, who is the Constitutional Committee, Mr Vozka, take the place of the rapporteur's chair. The amendments are published in the press 564/10. It was delivered on 1 July and the resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as press 564/11. I will ask the Minister if he wishes to speak before the debate is opened. That's right. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal that is just beginning to be discussed at third reading is a proposal that is one of the priorities of the government in the fight against corruption and transparency and is based on several fundamental principles. For the first time, a single electronic notification register shall be established instead of a number of thousands of registration points where such returns or notifications have been submitted in paper form. This, of course, has to do with improving control, because we now do not even know if in those thousands of places the announcements are actually being filed and recorded in the way the law predicts in the present form. No one is even designated to exercise control over compliance with the law in its current form. Of course, the control is twofold. First of all, since the data in this register should at least be available to the public for public officials in simple terms of political positions, that is to say, the public should also gain control over whether public officials fulfil their obligations under the Conflict of Interest Act and report as they should and should improve official control, because the law also determines the central administrative office responsible for this agenda, namely the Ministry of Justice. Even such an office has not yet been established by law, that is, no one has driven this area, methodically directed it, and this has also led to disunity in a number of directions in the application of the conflict of interest law. Another point that I would mention is, in simple terms, the entry of the property notice on the date preceding the establishment of the post, which was entered by the public official, where the aim is to create a kind of input benchmark, so that from the very beginning it can be clearly and publicly controlled whether the public official does not abuse the performance of his office for personal property benefit. The last thing I would mention is to some extent tightening up and improving the resolution of sanctions, so that it can be better taken into account what error has been committed against the law, and so those sanctions have been better answered, and it is also obvious that the sanctions have come in an appropriate amount if a public official or another person violates the law in the future. In view of the fundamental principles of the law, I would like to make it clear in advance that my position as a representative of the government responsible for bringing the law here will be negative on those proposals that will go against these principles. Clearly, in the case of amendments that propose to launch an electronic single system and maintain the existing fragmentation of registration points. Undoubtedly, these proposals also include, from my point of view, a problematic amendment which complements judges and prosecutors, but especially in relation to judges. In itself, extending the circle of officials to these positions, i.e. the prosecutor and the judge, I would not see as problematic. The problem is a way of keeping records where the principle of the introduction of a single electronic register is being broken, and I think it is creating an unnecessary alternative form of filing in writing, where even one amendment, in addition to public control, precludes the use of public authorities, for example, in criminal or criminal proceedings, so that it would completely lack meaning. Nor would there be an amendment against the meaning of the law, which excludes from public control the entry notification of property, because then we would introduce it unnecessarily. Because why would it be served if it didn't fulfil the role of a benchmark base and it wouldn't be possible to check whether a public official has been using his functions from the very beginning. So much for the part about the government bill and amendments to them. Several amendments have been tabled here, which quite fundamentally extend the ban on the continuity of the duties of a member of the government and certain business activities, whether in general or in relation to the media area. I must say that I also consider this debate legitimate. I can even imagine stricter proposals than the ones made. It is, of course, a question of reflection. And I must also say that this is based on the fact that we see in practice that there may be large conflicts of interest among members of the government, albeit admitted, so it can still be considered a social problem. And there is also a big problem, and this is also related to the sanctions that I mentioned when a public official, a member of the government, is still in office after a few years as a member of a law-making body, albeit prohibited by law, and, of course, in that situation he is expressing himself, so he is somehow going to take the $500,000 penalty that is at maximum risk. [[9.20 hours]] This approach to the law, of course, legitimately raises a debate about whether the regulation is sufficient and whether it should not be tightened up in this area as well. However, I would point out that, of course, any conflict of interest will not rule out a more rigid and better-established law in itself. That it is also a question of political culture that some things should not be done if someone is performing a public function. However, if this bill is adopted, I think that the priority of the government that I was talking about, which results from the coalition agreement, will be fulfilled by the fact that there will be a significant improvement in legislation in this area, there will be improved transparency and perhaps a better penalty if some public officials do not fulfil these legal obligations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u3	Thank you, Minister. So I am opening the debate. I have here an application with priority rights and this is the application by President Kalousek and then with priority rights by President Faltýnek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor. I will also read an apology - Mr Grospič apologizes today from 13:00 to the end of the negotiations due to a working meeting outside the Chamber of Deputies. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not delay for long because the debate on this law has been conducted in public space for quite a long time and intensively. I just want to express the position of TOP 09 on one of Mr Plíšek's amendments. The government proposal was supplemented at second reading by a number of amendments seeking to limit the conflict of interests of government members in the case of subsidies, in the case of public procurement, in the case of media ownership, and Mr Plíšek also tabled an amendment that would not allow a member of the government to be a controlling legal person. The purpose of this amendment is quite clear. The petitioner who has our full support in this is trying to avoid a situation where the member of the government in question would be dealing with himself. When a trade is concluded, both parties defend their property rights. And we live at a time when it is possible that a member of the government who has its significant property rights in its private companies is in trade with a state that defends taxpayers' property rights. We all know that if we play poker with ourselves as an A and B person in one person, we can always easily decide which of those people wins. Playing poker alone is no fun in a card game, in the case of trading with the state it always pays the taxpayer. That is the deep meaning of this proposal. We note that a large part of the House does not agree with this amendment and that its adoption could jeopardise the adoption of the law as a whole and the adoption of other amendments that we consider to be extremely useful in terms of subsidies, media ownership and public procurement. That is why, when voting on this amendment - these are proposals D1.1 to D1.3, Mr Plíšek's proposals, although we fully support them - we will abstain from voting so that we do not jeopardise the common will to approve the amendments further and the law as a whole. We will also proceed in the same way with a similar proposal by Mr Chvojka. Even there, we fully support the proposal, it has a similar philosophy, it was filed a few weeks later than the proposal by Mr Plíšek, and that is where the proposal has our support. Even so, we would not jeopardize the success of the final vote. So much for explaining our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The next performance with priority rights will be the speech of the Chairman of the club YES. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u6	Good morning. Mr President, gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members, I am this morning when I arrived in the House, I think it was 5.37 or 5.36, so - I know I'm weird, but you know, you can't teach an old dog new tricks and it has one advantage that you will park when you arrive early - so I started writing my short speech on this subject. I apologize for the fact that I may be repeating myself in some matters when I spoke here in the second reading, but then as part of our monitoring, Mr. Honzejk's article from Hospodářské noviny - it is not from Lidovka, or Mafra, or from Impulse, or from the Mladá fronta - and this article completely broke the concept of my performance. The article is called When Babiš falls, splinters fly. I don't know which one of you had a chance to read it. Allow me to read the first few sentences of this article: "The amendment to the conflict of interest law to be approved by the House in its final reading today can be attributed to very little flattering characteristics. She's hypocritical, she's demotivating, she's dysfunctional. It would probably be better if she didn't pass. First things first. Hypocritical is the amendment because, although the petitioners are hard-faced that it is not lex Babiš, but the general regulation of the business of ministers, it is clear that there is no law against anyone other than the President YES and the owner of Agrofert. While the proposed bans on controlling companies and owning media are only to apply from the next term, their apparent purpose is to disgust Babiš. No other tycoon with the listed activity portfolio has - so far, I'm adding - "doesn't loom on the political horizon. It's always wrong to write laws primarily directed against one person. Next. Demotivating is a prepared amendment because it will discourage every entrepreneur's policy. Entering public life would inevitably mean the need for administrative operations with own property, whether or not the company is trading with the State. What's the point? Does this mean that ownership as such is suspicious?" And so on and so forth. So it's just a short quote from this morning's article, and I don't want to comment on it. And now for your own law of conflict of interest. [[9.30 hours]] The conflict of interest law has been in force in our country since 2006. The coalition has agreed, and Minister Dienstbier has said that it is necessary to change it and clarify it in particular so that politicians admit their assets transparently before entering politics and not, as it is now, after a year's work. It is true that this law is one of the main priorities of the government and brings - or should bring - the transparency of property statements by politicians and other public officials who will be made electronically available to citizens at a centrally managed address before the entry of policy into office, including sanctions for violating this law. Just to remind you, I said it here last time, I want to say that our Members, after their election, have published their property without encouraging them to do so by law. So, from our point of view, the law, as the government put it, is good, and the main ideas we wanted are contained in it. However, amendments were tabled by both opposition and coalition MEPs in a rare agreement between colleagues Plíšek and Chvojka. In my view, these amendments have one common denominator in common, in order to prevent public life and politics from being involved in people who have achieved something in life, have built something, have built successful companies that employ people and pay taxes. These proposals, which say that a member of the government must not own property, must not own the company that he has been building his entire life, give a clear signal to our public. When I translate it into Czech, they say that traditional political parties and especially our coalition partners, social democracy and KDU-ČSL do not want successful people in politics. Clearly these traditional parties say: you want to go into politics, get rid of the company, sell it, transfer it to your wife, children, friends, white or black horses - that's a message for horse farmers. If you don't do that, don't get involved in politics with us, the traditional politicians who sit here from school! I know my performance is useless. I know I'm wasting your time, colleagues. I'm aware of that. However, because your common desire to get rid of Andrej Babiš, to push him out of politics, to re-create and privatise a policy for traditional parties has united you, and amendments that prevent members of the government from owning property, in my opinion, will pass through, I think so. However, allow me to ask Mr Plíšek and other colleagues from ODS and TOP 09 through the President, but also social democracy, why they did not solve this problem during the parliamentary periods when they ruled. Why didn't they discuss the governments of business ministers who turned their businesses into family members, friends and friends. I'm just gonna name a few names for the recovery, but it's just a statement. I don't want to go into this because it's a long story, because the examples here are x, which are described by the media back then, not owned by Mr. Babiš. A few names: Minister Bárta, Minister Řebíček, Mr Drábek, Mr Besser and others. At the time, no one cared that some companies had miraculously increased their revenues and profits after joining politics. It wasn't a problem at the time. And the law wasn't broken. But they weren't just ministers. It wasn't just the ministers who acted like that. We also have a number of Members who have transferred their companies to family members - they don't exactly sit here, that's a shame. And these companies, especially construction companies, began to work and build miraculously. But not for private investors. Not for private investors. But for cities, road management and maintenance, General Directorate of Customs, Police of the Czech Republic and other state regional and municipal institutions. And everything's fine. Nobody cares. I would also like to ask through Mr President Mr Plíšek why he did not propose this restriction when the TOP 09 was in the government and Karel Schwarzenberg was a foreign minister. And at that time he was and is still the owner of several companies, such as Orlík nad Vltavou, s.r.o., where he has been the owner since 1992 of 99,8 %. Firms that are engaged in agricultural business draw subsidies from both European and national sources in the order of millions of crowns, and when there was an administrative error in drawing subsidies for the renewal of ponds and should have returned these subsidies, Mr Kalousek forgave him as Minister of Finance. [[Someone on the right applauded.]] Ladies and gentlemen, don't clap. I'm not criticizing it. I repeat, I'm not criticizing it. My colleague Kalousek, Chairman of the TOP 09, doesn't sit here. I just want to point out that we're not taking the same subway. This example clearly shows that when the minister owned property in past governments, no one cared. No one, not even a social democracy that kept quiet and didn't suggest anything. And, hey, there's a Babiš we don't want in politics, so we're gonna make a law on one person. Not for one person. People who have built successful companies, employ people, pay taxes. Yes, yes, it's been here before, but repetition is the mother of wisdom. So the traditional parties want to discourage these successful people from joining politics. One more comment - a colleague of Kalousek has not yet arrived, which is a pity - about what I said about the ownership and subsidies of Karel Schwarzenberg. You know, everyone makes an administrative mistake, and it's normal to just stand up to it and say yes, there's been a mistake, I didn't make a deadline. And it's settled. And that's how it was in this case. So I'm not saying this in a bad way. But remember the debate that was here when someone left out one, two, three days to fill out some form in case of a donation for the stork's nest. What media has been going on for several months, and it will probably still be, as colleagues from the right say. Allow me, colleagues, a few words on the legal framework of these proposals. Although I am not a lawyer, unlike my fellow petitioners, I believe that the proposals made by colleagues Chvojka and Plíšek are on the verge of constitutionality. According to Article 11 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, everyone has the right to own property. The property rights of all owners have the same legal content and protection. Some may argue that the Constitution also says that expropriation or forced restriction of ownership is possible in the public interest, on the basis of law and compensation. [[9.40 hours]] Citizens have the right to participate in the administration of public affairs directly or by the free choice of their representatives. Citizens have access to elected and other public posts on equal terms. Article 3 provides that no one may be discriminated against because of the exercise of one of these rights. Proposals, in my opinion, colleagues Chvojka and Plíšek, lawyers, are in direct conflict with these principles when a person who owns a particular property is discriminated against by restrictions on the right to hold a government member's public office. Or vice versa, the person holding this function is denied ownership of property. In this context, I ask myself: if we want to discriminate against a member of the government, then what is the difference between the Minister and the Governor, the Member, the senator, the Mayor and other relaxed policies? I say, in principle, none. Each of them, if he owns a company, if he wants to, he'll abuse his functions for the benefit of his company, whoever he transfers it to. There's quite a lot of cases like this from the past, I've implied some. Still. I originally announced that I would put forward this amendment, but I merely wanted to point out the absurdity of the proposal that by law, we would prohibit someone from owning property. So I didn't make the proposal because it seems absurd to me. As another argument - and yesterday I was quite surprised by Mrs. Vitovská on the show when she argued there, she obviously didn't have it completely studied. Another argument from colleagues Plíšek and Chvojka is that such an adjustment as they propose is common throughout Europe. It's not true. It's not true. We have had it processed, and after all it is available, a study by the Parliamentary Institute, which is called Limitations of Government Members to carry out certain activities during the term of office and Declaration of Members of the Government preventing conflicts of interest from April 2015. It says, among other things, that ownership of property is not prohibited for government members in the following countries - it is only necessary to study these things - Great Britain, France, Austria, Germany, Italy, Belgium, Netherlands, Sweden, Norway, Switzerland, Denmark, Estonia, Lithuania, Hungary, Slovakia, Spain etc. So let's just be correct in this argument and use verified information and not confuse people. The prohibition on owning a stake in the company is in two states, Poland, where 10 percent is limited, and is in Croatia. The information about Poland is vaguely described in this study, information from Croatia, which we have not talked about so far, is from my colleague Vondráček, who was with the Constitutional Committee in Croatia and there discussed these matters. This morning a colleague of Plíšek spoke on TV again and said - Italy, Berlusconi... So, my friends, in Italy, which you talk so often about, my colleague through Mr President, with a reference to Silvio Berlusconi, the Silvio Berlusconi, whom one of the prime ministers of your government so much liked to go to the hut, to the cabin, a little bit, so the law says - I quote: "If the members of the government ran their own business before joining the government, they must appoint a business agent who will represent them for the duration of the government's office." [[Jollyness in the Hall]] There's not a word about restrictions on ownership. You're always confusing the public here when you want to cut down on business and corporate governance with your designs. And that's completely out of line, the argument. So please, once again, let's really use the relevant arguments. So very briefly on my part. I'm sorry it's been a little bit longer, but I got complicated this morning by Mr. Honzejk's article from Hospodářské noviny. Once again, I apologize for this and thank you for your attention, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u7	Vice-President Gazdík will now speak with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u8	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to respond to the contribution of an honored colleague, President of the ANO member's club Jaroslav Faltýnek. Mr President, I am perhaps not a traditional politician, I have not been in politics since college, I have been able to show something in the meantime, I am not going to sit in the Chamber of Deputies or retire. Perhaps we can agree that successful people, successful in their fields, those who have done something, should come into politics, which has resulted from your performance. Only then will politics change in the Czech Republic. You said that a conflict of interest should not only be defined by a member of the government, and I, as Chairman of the Mayors and as mayor or deputy mayor of the village, tell you that I agree with you. Yes, even mayors, mayors, may have a conflict of interest, and it is not possible for the chieftain to draw orders for his companies from the county, it is not possible for the mayor to take orders or subsidies for his city companies. But then there's one huge risk. We live in a time of mediocracy, a time of the media. And what defines conflict of interest, and it is from my point of view that the ownership of the media is the most. Public opinion cannot be influenced by a media owner who is also a member of the government. This is not just about Mr Babiš, it is about any other top policy that would be in this huge conflict of interest. Democracy according to some definitions is where there are free elections and free media. If we do not have free media, our democracy is in jeopardy. And today we are faced with this task to prevent us from putting our democracy at risk. You said it could be done by fooling around, transferring to trust funds or to wives. I'm terribly sorry, but if it was possible for some donation to the Tea Nest, I'm sure it's worth it in the name of democracy and freedom in our country and it's worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u9	Now I have two factual points. Mr Koubek and then Mr Chalupa. Mr Koubek withdraws his point of order. Mr Chalupa, therefore, has the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. I'll follow up on my previous speaker. There was talk of free elections. Why don't we let the voters judge for themselves whether a person who has an ambition to enter politics and apply for their favor and their votes so that these voters can judge for themselves whether this person is trustworthy or untrustworthy? With, of course, a transparent demonstration of its ownership, its property, etc. This, for example, was done by President Babiš and was elected by the people. Why are we dealing with this thing here? Let's leave it to the voters. [[9.50 hours]] Second thing. We're talking about the media. I have a very strong feeling that we have not exactly defined the media. Because theoretically, I can start a blog on the Internet that can have millions of supporters, and I can have a much bigger load of myself as a person physically on Facebook or on the Internet, which will be read by millions of people. You want to limit me so I can't have this blog? So I don't influence the public as a politician? Get a grip. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u11	Mr Fichtner, also a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u12	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I would return to what Vice-President Gazdík said here. In short, he said that the ownership and influence of the media threatened democracy. I have two comments about that. One. The study referred to here by President Faltýnek, who maps the issue of protection against conflicts of interest in European countries, is not limited in any of the countries he describes. The exception is not for the media, it is only a restriction on corporate ownership, and only in the two countries mentioned here by the President. That's the first thing. The second thing is rather political. Mr Vice-President, if you say that the ownership and influence of the media is a problem and it threatens democracy, please hold your words and withdraw all personnel nominations from the Radio and Television Council, from the Czech Radio Council and from the other bodies that oversee the media, because they are also politically nominated persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u13	Since there are no factual remarks or requests for a priority act, we will continue with the duly registered ones. Mr Pilný, please, and Mr Pleticha will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the conflict of interest is characterised by three things. First thing, it's a binary category, i.e. Either the conflict of interest is or it isn't. It's the same as a woman can be and can't be pregnant when someone smokes or doesn't smoke. It is therefore not limited by the type of activity and it is not limited by whether anyone is the Governor, the Member or anything else. Besides, this category isn't just about politicians. Christians are exposed to conflict of interest. If you look at most of the 10, you have a conflict of interest on offer. And the third thing that characterizes it, and that may be the most important thing, is that anyone who exploits the Institute of Conflict of Interest is aware of that. Everyone. Some can apologize to themselves, and some no longer bother to justify it in any way. That's why no law and no amendment on conflict of interest will change that until ethics changes. It's every one of us's business. And I am one of the members of the YES who signed the entry notification of their property without being forced by law. It is therefore an ethical problem, not a law problem. If we are to amend the law, it will always be a purposeful structure to sort something out in a way. It has already been mentioned here that if this law is adopted in the wording of amendments, especially to Mr Plíšek and Mr Chvojka, the categories of people to whom it applies will be limited in their rights, this has been mentioned here in terms of business. [[The President Asks for Peace]] The media has also been mentioned here. I would just like to say to Mr Gazdík, through the President, that the media world today looks completely different. Every successful commercial company is aware of this. There are phenomena like Facebook, Twitter, YouTube. They have hundreds of thousands and millions of supporters who significantly influence anything that happens not only in this state, but in the world. He's looking at them, I've already mentioned the statistics here, a huge number of people. This media, those who contribute, doesn't own it at all. That means overestimating the printed media and the image that was here a few years ago is completely pointless, because the influence of public opinion takes place in a completely different way. It becomes professional and cannot be prosecuted and restricted in any way because it is not linked to property rights. So what is the purpose of this amendment of the law, especially in the wording of the amendments to Mr Plíšek or Chvojka? It is a dedicated structure that has already been mentioned here, and it is because the results of elections and preferences show that voters and citizens of this country want other people in politics. People who have something behind them who have some experience and who do not want to respect the existing establishment and political culture. Getting these people into politics is very difficult. Every political party tries to do so, and it usually ends in failure. Therefore, the existing political establishment, and it doesn't matter if we call it the right or the left, is trying to build more barriers for these people to go into politics at all. This is probably the fundamental problem of this law, especially in the wording of the amendments. I say for myself that if these amendments are adopted, I will not vote in favour of this law, but I will behave in the same way as I have done so far. I have no conflict of interest, and I made a statement about my property voluntarily, without the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u15	I now ask Mr Berkovec, who has a point of fact. I apologize to Mr Pletich. He'll get his word right after him. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good day. Allow me to follow up with Mr Ivan Pilný, my esteemed colleague. He mentioned the category of ethics. Yes. Category of ethics. We often have it on the shield in cooperation with non-profit organizations. But that's where I think there's often a conflict of interest. See how many billions of the state budget goes to nonprofit organizations. And I think the public is concerned about some cases, and it is a public secret that some of these organizations are being used as money washing machines or a way of redirecting money flows. So it's a nonprofit organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u17	Thank you, too, and Mr Pleticha has the floor now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u18	Mr President, dear government, colleagues, so far we have discussed two amendments, Mr Plíšek and Mr Chvojka, but I would like to turn your attention to another amendment which has passed through the constitutional committee after first reading, and this is the A27 proposal, and this is an amendment, as the petitioner said, one of the core pillars of actually publishing admissions to anyone, anywhere, on the Internet, without any control. It is this amendment A27 that seeks to prevent this, but not because of the fact that property returns do not exist, but because of a number of purely practical and very dangerous situations arising from this. Above all, it is important to note that movable objects of a certain value will be published there, over a quarter of a million. These are mostly objects that can be very easily alienated, and they may not be any millionaire, multimillionaire at all, they can also be objects that can be found in a number of ordinary households. These can be paintings of Czech artists, Zrzavý, Philly, who were sold at the time of the Protectorate for a few thousand crowns when artists lived or after the war. It could be the 1978 Czechoslovak ducats, which were bought in jewels for some 40,000 who collected it, today have values of over half a million, a piece of gold, just very easily alienated. It could be different art objects, it could be pocket watches, calendars from the 19th century, but it could be some kind of veteran, even sports Felicia from 1964, today it could be Tatra 603. But what's the point here? The message, which is when someone honestly fills it out, actually gives the invitation to thieves, because according to the law the accumulation of wealth, where there is one valuable object, is likely to be some other, they may no longer be worth a quarter of a million, so they may not be reported there. However, the publication of this data already indicates for the criminal elements, simply the thief: come look there. [[10.00 hours]] Not to mention that politicians are well-traceable. It is known when Parliament is sitting. It's known when the council is meeting. It's known in advance when a politician is likely to be at a public event. And so it is possible to trace the time when his property, his house, could be invaded. If it was just politics, I'd still bite it off, but here we need to realize that the politician is also connected to his families, wives, relatives, minors. And these could all be threatened by the criminal scene through this institute. [[There's an increase in noise levels in the O.R.]] And as for the form, we got it at the end of the 564 press as it should look. [[shows]] There is a need to say that what he should display, the information he should give, it will not appear at all. On the contrary, those who are not there and who do not even have data that have no support in the law will be displayed there. So, for example, in the amount of immovable property, if we stick to the interpretation of the law or the concept, the correct addition will be the land, or the unit, because the construction is part of the property, and therefore it should not even be properly filled in. There will be a significant error because a lot of people live in cooperative ownership.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u19	Colleagues, colleagues, please rest again. Please let the Member speak in a dignified atmosphere. [[The Member continues to read his text at a time when the President asks for peace.]] Ambassador, I'm sorry. Please disband the discussion circles and settle down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u20	Thus, flats that are in cooperative ownership will not be present in the box at all, but only a crazy obligation falls on housing cooperatives that, on the day when someone has been elected and has to file a return, the housing cooperative must make exceptional accounts to calculate the value of the business share that the policy in question must fill in in another box. Can you imagine? I don't think so. It also applies simply to those who are in the countryside. People usually have shares in agricultural cooperatives there, and they're gonna get the same thing. That's just part of the problem of this proposal. Then the next part is that this will not contribute to transparency. On the contrary, these data will be a welcome source of information for various unfair activities, which can then seek to influence decisions at the level of self-government. It will be a welcome source of additional information for foreign intelligence, ours will get to them normally, but foreign will have it online without any trace on the Internet. So I believe that the A27 amendment is indeed appropriate. The Constitutional Committee supported him at the first hearing. He did not adopt a resolution in the second. I ask you to think about it and think about this proposal. And the first person to get it will probably be Members after the parliamentary elections in the fall of next year, but in 2018 there will be a lot of pressure to change that decree, because it will show who is going to fill it out properly, so it doesn't really show anything at all. And whoever gets hit with it all will be all local politicians after the municipal elections of 2018. And then we get to the obvious constitutional incompliance here, because actually the invasion of privacy is in accordance with Article 7 (1) of the Treaty. 1 Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms possible only on the basis of the law. But the scope and extent of this intervention will be defined by the ministerial decree, and that will simply be beyond any control of our legislature. It will be influenced by the personality of the future Minister of Justice. I wish it was someone fully integrated that would resist the various calls that would arise after that. But we have already had several cases where the conflict occurred and where various attempts to collect compromising information on other members, both Members and the families of Prague politicians have been here. Therefore, once again, I am very much in favour of considering and supporting the original resolution of the Constitutional Legal Committee on this amendment A27, so that this input information is not freely accessible to anyone in any way. The purpose of the control will be achieved because the law enforcement authorities or the financial authorities will get to it. But it's just not possible... It is also necessary to protect the privacy of families of politicians and other relatives known to these politicians. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Vilímec, please, and Mr Vondráček will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Paragraph 95 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, 2 of the Rules of Procedure, in the context of my amendment referred to in point C1, in the event of its adoption, I submit a legislative technical regulation which consists in the fact that the word 'number' is replaced by the word 'numbers', on the ground that there are two numbers of 250 thousand in the first part of Article 1, point 31, which I propose to change to 500 thousand. I add that this is the amount of the so-called price. other movable items referred to by Mr Pleticha, in the first case, in the second case, a summary of the other movable items from which it is required to appear in the notice of property. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u23	Thank you. Mr Pleticha is reporting with a factual remark? No. Then I'll erase it. Please, Mr Vondráček, who is not here, so he will move on to the end of the performance and Mr Schwarz has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u24	Good morning, everyone. Mr President, I would like to make my proposal in the course of the debate, within the meaning of Section 95 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, I would like to repeat the second reading of this press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u25	Yes, I'll make a note of it. We'll vote on your proposal. I will ask if Mr Vondráček is present. If I don't, I don't have... Mr. Chairman Mihola, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to comment on the speech by the now absent President of the club of the movement ANO Faltýnek, because KDU-ČSL also mentioned there. I must fundamentally reject the question of not wishing for successful people in politics. That is, of course, nonsense, and I'd say it's insulting. I hope that even the President realizes that these successful people are not only owners of commercial corporations, with all due respect. Because I like to emphasize such a principle, sine ira et studio, without resentment and affection, fall to whom, so I would lean towards his thesis, which was also said here. Of course, it bothers me that this matter hasn't been dealt with long ago. I think that a quarter of a century ago, we could have been clear on this matter here, as is the case in other civilized countries. I don't want to give Mr. řebíček and Mr. Bárt's comments here. After all, those parties that are already at the junkyard of history today, or they have to work very hard to get to previous percentages, know their own. [[10.10 hours]] It is also not true that Lex Babiš - we have rejected this saying here, or this thesis always. These restrictions do not apply only to 17 members of the government. I consulted with experts on this matter. They also concern the heads of central government bodies. And as you could see, in the discussions on this bill, we tried very vehemently not only to narrow it down to the government, but also to the authorities. But it's really not that simple. For at least an easily understandable reason that the Governor does not decide separately, but leans on the collective body of the board and then the council. Simply put, we are also not opposed to the government's doing business, but it is fundamentally bothering us that there is an opportunity for this member of the government to apply for public contracts and apply for subsidies for its companies. And this is not some preconceivement, only we all know well that in the Czech Republic, and not only here, so that we don't sneak up on ourselves, what can be abused, is usually abused, sooner or later. Now a brief comment on the KDU-ČSL position on the bill as a whole and on the amendments. It's a government proposal. How we are prepared to support the whole, but above all, we are also interested in supporting those sensitive amendments and the amendments discussed. On behalf of KDU-ČSL, I would like to say that we will support Mr Plíšek's amendments so that the State cannot grant a subsidy or public incentive to a commercial company in which a member of the government has a larger share of as 25 percent. We will also support the part of my colleague Chvojka's amendment, where members of the government should not newly own television, radio or periodic press. We also find support for our position abroad, where they have long-term experience of conflicting interests with rich people in politics. I mostly apply to Germany and Austria, neighbouring countries, but with permission, I will now use such a comparison with the United States. It leads me to believe that the Minister of Finance himself has reported very often, and in one of his blogs he is reporting to the three-fold mayor of New York, Bloomberg, who, as a billionaire controlling one of the largest media agencies, was also known. Babiš is shielding himself in a blog from the end of February. When I quote literally, it says, among other things, "The mayor of New York was Michael Bloomberg three times, by chance the richest New Yorker with a fortune of 38 billion. dollars, while the city of New York has the same population as former Czechoslovakia. Bloomberg also had a potentially large conflict of interest, but it is generally recognised that he was a very successful mayor who did a lot for his city. New Yorkers wouldn't change it." So many quotes. But for comparison, when the finance minister reports to him, what the mayor of New York had to do to become mayor after the election was won. He had to uncover his entire property, voluntarily leaked it. He had to sell part of his property with a conflict of interest, limit the disposal of part of his property, publish the hundred largest customers of Bloomberg L.P. as his media company. Furthermore, he was under constant control of the supervisory authorities and had to comply with strict conditions of law concerning the conflict of interests of the State of New York. So let's get this place together. There's some kind of appeal, but when we get in touch, we have to go all the way. Once again, I note that KDU-ČSL will support the Government's proposal with the amendments discussed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u27	Thank you. Please, Mr Plzák, who has a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I really respond to the previous speaker. My colleague Mihola here said that we could have had conditions here for 25 years as in civilized countries. Mr Mihola, through the President, you have not listened to our President, Mr Faltýnek, who said how it is in civilized countries. This means that there are no such measures as the amendments that you support. What they didn't have and didn't have in civilized countries were bearer shares. It was just us and another small country. And it was the bearer's shares that allowed ministers who were here to have companies that passed on government contracts. You didn't mind. That's interesting. As far as the other amendments are concerned, I am sorry to exclude from the competition for the title of the greatest bad guy from the governor, councilman and others. It's a shame. That's how we attribute the role of a characterless person to a minister. And you seem to approve. I am sorry, but the amendments, as they are tabled, are pointless and are against a civilised Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u29	Another factual point, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u30	Thank you for the floor. Mr Plzák reminded us of the possibility of circumventing laws and unethical behaviour through bearer shares. He probably drew on the experience of his President and Chapi's čapí, which, of course, did not hesitate to use this instrument to circumvent the rules of the subsidy program for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. If this man has committed unethical behavior because of such a small volume as the 50-million-dollar donation to the Cape Nest, why should we think that he would be more ethical in the case of the billion-dollar business that the Finance Minister Andrej Babiš is closing with the owner of Agrofert Andrej Babiš? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u31	Another factual point, Mr Blažek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u32	Hello, thank you for your word. A brief response to Mr Plzák. I may be self-centered, but he was looking at me when he was talking about former ministers. Perhaps one small example. And in advance I say that what I did does not, of course, have a value and, above all, a scale of comparison with what is owned by Andrej Babiš. But when I became a minister, I left absolutely all the companies I was in, and I sold all the shares I had, not my wife, but I normally sold them. These examples used to be and used to be. That's nothing new that's going on right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u33	Thank you. If they are not further factual, Mr Vondráček, who is the last duly entered into the debate, shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As the last performer, I listened to individual contributions. The good news is, I'm gonna cut down on mine, because it's probably pointless to repeat things. On the edge - I am glad that Mr. Bloomberg's name was also mentioned here. In that contribution, it is still missing that he sold all his publicly negotiable securities, restricted ownership, transparently, retired from executive functions, but no one forced him to choose either or. No one forced him to sell or transfer, or somehow shuffle his empire. I think that the United States of America is an advanced democracy, which there is no doubt, and we should be inspired in this very direction. Therefore, as I will further state, I believe that the proposals that are put forward when we examine them from a constitutional point of view and some proportionality, and they are beyond the threshold. But I've already had a rather long post at second reading. We are at third reading, we should be focusing on specific proposals. As the Minister said at the outset, it is an amendment to the law, which was the priority of the YES movement, which brings about a lot of fundamental changes. [[A note from the O.R.]] He didn't say, that's what I said. Entry of property statements, what the ANO movement did voluntarily in 2013, a central register that will significantly make public control more effective, maybe too much to strip naked as politicians, but in short, it must be in the situation in which Czech politics is. A system of sanctions and so on. There hasn't been a word of this. [[10.20 hours]] As part of the third reading, there has not been a word of any other amendments, such as increasing the boundaries of the various movable things to 50,000, which will be mentioned. There is a change in the proposal that the current situation should be left to the sum of 500,000. Under 500,000, property doesn't have to be listed. Lots of specific stuff. And it's all crossed out by one or more amendments, which, no matter who tells me, the only reason and motive is Andrej Babiš. The only trigger mechanism is Andrej Babiš. That the debate is moving on and we're talking about principles, that's another thing. And we are talking about the principle of whether to allow people who have property, who have successfully done business, whether to allow them to enter politics or not. If it's up to Sofiina's choice to get rid of everything and go into politics and serve the public or keep her property, get it properly. The whole debate, I think, degrades the reality of how simple - as we are urged to do - how easy it is to bypass this whole amendment. It's just gonna turn into someone else. Some relative, some suitable person. And really then the question is, is it a storm in a glass of water? We're dealing with something here that we've been talking about from the start, that in a way, it's gonna be hard to enforce. And there's just some political debate and it's headed in one direction. As a lawyer, I mind specific matters, and I will speak specifically to the amendments at third reading, and of course, it is a certain imprudentness and unconceivedness of those proposals. Because the proposal, as I was saying, is directed against our chairman. For example, when it comes to media ownership, only printed periodicals, radio and television are mentioned there. But how did Chalupa's colleague here already indicate, and what about Internet news servers? What about social media, non-periodic prints? The proposal, as it's being submitted, is basically outdated, because technology is evolving in a way that it's not responding. And you know what the problem is, why is all this? That there was basically no discussion here. No reasonable discussion. Except for exceptions from other parties, which also pointed out that it should go the way of a government proposal, such as processing, going through the RIA process, as it is customary for government proposals, thinking about the correlations and the overall adjustment at all, this is all missing, and there was no debate within the coalition either. There was no coalition meeting. The coalition partner did not come up with the intention to make these proposals and that he wanted to address this situation. He didn't come up with it even when the coalition treaty was signed, when, of course, the Prime Minister knew very well what Mr Babiš owned and how he came into politics. But when he was supposed to become Prime Minister and sign a coalition agreement, he didn't mind at all. And now it's a problem. And now we come up with this debate. As far as constitutionality is concerned. Indeed, I have the biggest problem with Article 21 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 4, when the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms clearly guarantees that we all have the same access to public functions, elected but also to others. And this Charter is damaged in this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u35	Calm down, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u36	I think that I am still talking specifically to individual proposals and stick to the material plane. So we're missing a debate about this part, we're missing a debate about the collision with the article. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And when it examines it, or, as I have already been called upon several times and questioned, if we turn to the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court will first examine the issue of proportionality. If this restriction that you are proposing and which has no parallel to any advanced democracy, as we have heard today, whether it is beyond the brink or not - I say it is beyond the brink. And it's over the edge of correlation. And if you look at the whole legal order comprehensively. Because our rule of law does not offer any right to act. In the United States, for example, they have a good experience with the so-called braintrust. I opened a newspaper yesterday at lunch, and it said that during the Donald Trump campaign, he opened a new hotel. Because he knows that their legal order and their customs allow him to deal with his property, and he probably wouldn't have been able to open it. Or did he assume he wouldn't win? That he didn't want to win? I don't think he'd be able to open a new hotel in a situation if he knew he'd have to sell it a month after the election. Again, let us inspire ourselves in advanced democracies. That's why, like I said, there's more of those things out there, untethered. I was talking about the media, I was talking about unconstitutionality. And the whole problem is that there was no normal discussion at any decent level. The discussion that was here was either yes, either you agree or you disagree. I know the coalition contract is such a marriage of reason, but every marriage to make it work in some way, those two should at least listen to each other in basic principles and communicate with each other. And if anyone here has any information about anyone coming to Andrej Babiš and saying, "We want to deal with this, there's a lot of social demand here, let's think of a way. I'm going to fabulate here: for example, link it with the amendment to the new Civil Code and adjust the trust funds in some way so that there is a need for a special adjustment to these cases, so that it is suitable for it to be suitable. In the aforementioned Croatia they have the possibility, or even the obligation, when they go into politics, into higher office, members of the government, so they put their property in the administration. For the administration of certain certified bodies. I don't want to advertise right now. They're usually law firms. But they just have a way, they have an answer. I asked that question at the second reading. I didn't hear any answer here. A colleague told me that he didn't really care what happened to the property. If he has the person - and we're not talking about Andrej Babiš right now, because no one knows what the next term will be. But when someone comes along successful, as I said, a successful doctor who has his own private clinic, so he's the ideal manager, he's got the perfect experience, and someone offers him a position as Minister of Health, he's gonna stand before sofiiný's choice: sell what I've been building all my life and go do the minister, and count the average life expectancy of health ministers, or I'm gonna blow it off. And at this point, the proposal really goes against the very principles of the ANO movement to bring people into politics who want to in some way be of public benefit and cultivate and improve public space. So I would like to conclude with all the voters, support the original government proposal and these amendments, which appeared only partially in committee and partly in the second reading, that they themselves have read it and that there has been no really solid discussion, let us get back to that. No one from YES will say no in this case. Let's talk about it and find an answer so that it is in accordance with the legal order of the Czech Republic. In conclusion, I would just like to ask for some understanding. You got the amending voting procedure on the table yesterday. Maybe it's at the last minute, the procedure isn't easy. However, it has some development, it is based on a debate on the Constitutional Legal Committee, when I have already suggested that individual sections, i.e. controlling person, media ownership and the possibility of receiving subsidies, i.e. Section 4a, 4b, 4c, which were originally to be voted by one vote, so we have now broken down and will vote separately. That's the only change. I'm sure a fellow rapporteur will talk about it more closely, but I'm signed under it, so it's not partisan, it's discussed. In short, the flies and the procedure have been developed, as it will be presented, I hope that it is okay and will not complicate the process that we will now participate in. Thank you for the space.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u37	Thank you. Only one information, we will decide on the procedure only after the final words just before the vote on the amendments. Now I have two factual points. Mrs Zelienková withdraws, Mrs Černochová wishes to speak. So he'll have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u38	Thank you, Mr President, good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure of this Chamber of Deputies. We're at the third reading. I'm not interested in background information from the government coalition's bedroom. I'm not interested in information from your kitchen, or your bathroom, that's what you do at your coalition's coalition meeting. I am interested in the result of the vote that will come soon. [[10.30 hours]] And I would just like to remind you, honourable coalition MPs, when we were discussing the EET here, it was you who accused us of violating the Rules of Procedure in some way. Vice-President Jermanová and other colleagues from the government coalition even cut us off in those negotiations, knocked us down, took our word because they claimed that we were violating the Rules of Procedure at third reading. You've been doing the same thing here for two hours. So, Prime Minister of the Chamber of Deputies, Hamáček, I am asking you to set order in this House and observe the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u39	Thank you, ma'am. That was the last point of fact so far. President Hamáček with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u40	I, if you don't mind, would have responded to Mrs Černochová's call. You know, this is the endless debate about what can be done at third reading and cannot. I remember the time when I wanted to make order, and I had a hard time demanding compliance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and it was you, Mrs President, who criticized me in the media for this. So I'm not gonna do it again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u41	Mrs Černochová, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u42	I'll explain this matter with Mr. Hamáček. I am not aware of the media I would criticize him for this. I may have criticized him for other things at some point, but certainly not for him being the one who would violate the Rules of Procedure. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is the domain of your other colleagues, Mr Hamáček. Vice-Presidents.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u43	Through me, please. And I'm sure my colleague didn't mean me. Thank you. [[Fun.]] Now, with another factual remark, Mr Ivan Gabal. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u44	Mr President, fellow Members of the Government, I have given a lot of thought to that remark and finally decided to say it. I would like to ask Mr Vondráček not to use the term sophiiný's choice in the context.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u45	Thank you. That was the last point of fact so far. Mr Grospič, now duly signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u46	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, my dear government, I do not think I will keep you long, but even today's debate inspires such a need to share with you the impressions that I am getting more and more recently. This Chamber of Deputies has passed a number of laws that we have already passed regarding, for example, funding political parties, limits, various restrictions, tightening the rules of the electoral campaign, but even the register of treaties and other and other laws, it has taken the most unfortunate course. She began to make the Czech rule of law a case list of what is allowed and what is not allowed, and this, oddly enough, does not tighten the fight against corruption, but actually opens Pandořin's box because whoever wants to, she always finds room. And what won't happen? It simply will not be described in any of the laws in this particular deed and there will be an urgent need to redo, modify again. I have a great and serious concern that this law will be the same. The Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia is highly likely to consult on how individual amendments will pass, and it can probably support that law. But it will depend on what amendments will go through and what form this law will eventually take. We wouldn't want it to be on the level that the wolf eats, but the goat stays whole. The procedure, as presented, is strongly directed towards this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u47	I thank Mr Grospič. Mr Karel Fiedler is the last member of the general debate so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm interested, as I usually do, in listening to the debate, and I can't help but think that there's such a useless gunfight again. I really think this could have been dealt with in the past. I have a simple position. I'm not even a member of the coalition, basically I haven't been here in the past, I haven't had any political history. And what we're dealing with right now is quite a very serious matter. I think that we have already shown in the Act on Political Parties, where I also said that I was surprised that discussions and discussions were quite simple, that even here, arguments and opinions could be heard more and dealt with in more detail. And it has already been said here before me, Mr Bronislav Schwarz suggested it, and I am inclined to his opinion and I support him to return it to second reading. I consider this a very reasonable proposal from my colleague, and I will certainly vote in favour. I would also like to say another thing - I think it was said by my colleague Ivan Pilný, Radek Vondráček mentioned this - and it is a matter of ethics. It was said here that Mr. Bloomberg sold some of his shares, got rid of something, and that he was not forced to do so. After all, any minister in question could have done that to himself. And I completely agree with my colleague Pilný that this is a matter of ethics. So let those who judge it, citizens and voters and Members in the House, when they vote on it, evaluate it for themselves. I don't understand why it's really based on a narrow circle of people. It was said very rightly here that from the competition for those persons - I will not use strong words - which are in sharp conflict of interest, and some financial flows are then suspicious, we exclude a number of other people at lower levels, at regional level. I have heard many times that the biggest strange transactions take place at county level, and they are hereby excluded. As far as the media is concerned. I don't think it's just a matter of members of the government. It doesn't have to be a member of the government, it doesn't have to be a minister. And we know very well that there is another empire that is controlled by a non-government and has an impact on the views of society, citizens. Facebook stuff. Don't be mad at me. It's true, of course. There is also this strong medium, but after all the importance of printed media and especially television is the largest and aims at another group of people, I would even like to say to those more disciplined voters who then go to elections than the media Internet environment. [[The speaker is silent.]] Thank you for keeping the noise level down in the room. That's just one last suggestion. I support my colleague Schwarz's proposal, and I think the most reasonable option is to return this amendment to second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u49	I thank Mr Fiedler. This has been the last duly entered into the debate so far. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. If there is no such person, I am done with the debate. I ask about the final words of the appellant or the rapporteurs. Please, the Minister is interested in the final word. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u50	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I will not repeat what I said in my introductory words. I will then express myself in the vote on individual proposals. However, I would have responded to some of the issues in the debate here. I would mention, in particular, Article 70 of the Constitution, which states that a member of the Government must not engage in activities the nature of which is contrary to the exercise of his office, and this is because it has been said here in the debate that it is not appropriate to limit the rights of the members of the Government or that it is not possible to interfere with their fundamental rights. The Constitution foresaw this in the cited provision, namely with members of the Government. [[10.40 hours]] There is, of course, another question, what restrictions on government members in their other activities are appropriate and proportionate to the purpose pursued, which, of course, is protecting the public interest from the private interest in the decision-making of a public official, in this case a member of the government. This is why more government members can be restricted than for example. other officials, as questions were raised here, why not also other circuits of public officials. And there was also a rather extensive debate about adjustments in other countries. I mentioned in the introductory words that I can imagine even stricter proposals than those put forward here. It would probably be according to the American model of the obligation to place certain property in the routes, or our terminology of the trust fund, including the identification of a person who would manage it independently of a public official. Such proposals have not been put forward here... or so rigorous here, and I shall then leave it to every Member to assess which proposals are appropriate, which are proportionate, proportional in relation to Article 70 of the Constitution that I have mentioned here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u51	Thank you, Minister. I am asking for further final words from the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee. Please, Mr. Vozka. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u52	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, in the final words, I would like to introduce you briefly to the legislative path and position of the Constitutional Legal Committee on the House of Press 564, which has advanced to the finals before the voting procedure. I remind you that the Government has presented this House press to the House 31. 7. 2015 with first reading on 16 December 2015 and second reading on 29 June 2016. The guarantee committee, the constitutional committee, discussed the entire material on 2 September, you have it in the Houses of the Press 564/11, discussing 40 amendments, four other mandate and immunity committees and five proposals by Members who have put their amendments into the House system. The resolution of 2 September 2016 contains a relatively complex voting procedure. From this date from 2 September to today, there have been quite a lot of negotiations on the voting procedure on this issue and the procedure has seen changes, especially in the field of § 4 letters. a, b, c, which will be newly proposed. This is prepared by Mr Vondráček as counter-proposal of division according to factual proposals or factual content of individual points and not according to individual Houses of Press or Houses of Proposals. The procedure will be combined. I beg you very much to pay attention to this procedure when voting. I would ask the Vice-President to give the floor, if necessary, to counter-proposal, because I will monitor and monitor him. And, if necessary, I will consult it quickly with Parliament's legislation so that we do not cause a problem. In other words, I do not protest the counterproposal because it is widely discussed by all the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u53	Thank you to the rapporteur. However, before that happens, I will first ask the other rapporteurs of the committees that discussed this bill. This is the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Mrs Kovářová is not interested. And the mandate and immune committee - the rapporteur, Plíšek, is interested in the final word. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u54	Thank you for the floor. I'll be very short. I've been mentioned here several times by the chairman of the ANO club. I think we had the debate properly at second reading, repeatedly on the committees that were also attended by your colleagues. I think the arguments have been answered, and I don't want to delay any longer, and I suggest we go to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u55	Thank you to the rapporteur. Those were the final words. I'm gonna call in our colleagues from the lobby, and I'm gonna have you all checked out. Please sign up with your voting cards. Before we come to the draft procedure, we will first have to deal with the proposal to repeat the second reading submitted by Mr Schwarz. [[Ambassador Schwarz speaks off the microphone.]] You have what the mandate and immune committee has done in your materials. The mandate, the Immune Committee, is resolution 564/8, which has been delivered to you on 30 March. There is a resolution of the mandate and immunity committee, my colleague. We will consider the proposal to repeat the second reading submitted by Mr Schwarz. Initiating vote on a motion to repeat second reading. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 158 vote. 187 Members and Members are registered, for 55, against 125. The motion was not accepted. We will proceed to the vote on the amendments. First to the procedure. I ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to introduce us to the voting procedure, to present various amendments and to give us an opinion before. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u56	Dear colleagues, I present to you the draft procedure approved by the Constitutional Legal Committee in its resolution of 2 September 2016. He recommended voting in this order: First, the proposals for technical adjustments pursuant to § 95 para. 2 Rules of Procedure, which, as you know, have been tabled. Then design A1. For the next vote, proposal A3 and A9 together with one vote. For further voting of proposals E1 to E23 jointly by one vote. If proposals of E21 to E23 are adopted, proposals of G21, G25, proposals of G26, proposals of A21, A25, proposals of A26 and proposals of A2, A8, A13 to A20, A22 to A24, A28, A38 and A39 are non-voting. If proposals E1 to E23 are not adopted, the proposals G21 and G25 need to be voted on. If proposals by G21 and G25 are adopted, the proposals by A21 and A25 are non-voting. Furthermore, if the G21 and G25 proposals are not adopted, vote on the A21 and A25 proposals. On the G26 proposal, if the G26 proposal is adopted, the A26 proposal is unvoting. If the G26 proposal is not adopted, vote on proposal A26. And others on proposals A2, A8, A13 to A20, A22 to A24, A28, A38 and A39 together with one vote. [[10.50 hours]] Another vote would be on proposals A33, A34 and A36 jointly by one vote. Another vote would be on proposal A27, for the next vote on proposal A5. The next vote would be on proposals F1 to F6 together with one vote. The next vote was the vote on proposals A4, A10, A11, A29, A30, A31, A32, A35, A37 and A40 jointly by one vote. If these proposals are adopted, that means A4, A10, A11, A29, A30, A31, A32, A35, A37 and A40, the proposals D1.1 to D1.3 are non-voting. If proposals A4, A10, A11, A29, A30, A31, A32, A35, A37 and A40 are not adopted, a vote shall be taken on proposals D1.1 to D1.3. The next vote would be the vote on proposals A6 and A7 together with one vote. Another vote on proposal A12. Next vote on proposal B1. Next vote on proposal B2. A further vote on proposal B3 and B4 together with one vote. The next vote would be the vote on proposal C1 and C2 together with one vote. In the next vote, the Constitutional Committee proposes to vote jointly on proposals D2.1 and D2.2 with one vote. And finally, in the finals, the vote on the law as a whole. This is not easy, but it should be noted that the Constitutional Committee for the A1 vote recommended, proposals A3, A9 recommended, proposals E1 to E23 - the opinion was not adopted. Proposals G21 -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u57	I'm sorry, colleague, I don't want to interfere with this, but in the case of a procedure, I will always ask for the opinion of the committees. There's no need to read it now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u58	Thank you. It seemed premature. So the procedure approved by the Constitutional Committee on 2 September was presented and can be discussed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u59	I'm asking if anyone else has a proposal for this procedure. This is Mr. Vondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u60	Thank you, Mr President. I've already announced in my contribution that I'm proposing an alternative voting procedure. I won't be as exhausting as my colleague Vozka. She is based on the original one, which has now been read precisely to us, but the fundamental difference is in point 8 when I propose that Amendment A4 be voted on in a factually separate circle. We will be dealing with § 4a there, so we will vote on the part of the A4 proposal, which concerns § 4a, which is the issue of the controlling person in commercial corporations. Then we would vote on Section 4b, where we are talking about receiving subsidies and losing a share of profits, and then we would vote on Section 4c, which is a ban on ownership of the media when I say it in short. To make things a little more difficult for you, there are also amendments F to Mr Chvojka, who are referred to by legislation as mitigating modifications. I'm saying they're doing a little bit of combing up the original design. They are not capable of a separate existence, so if we approve the F proposals, then we are voting on the A4 proposal in that part already moderated by the F amendment and if we do not accept the F, we are voting on the amended A4 part anyway. I hope that's perfectly clear to everyone, as I just said.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u61	It's pretty clear to all of us. I thank Mr Vondráček. Another one for the procedure is Mr. Tejc. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u62	Hello, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen. For those who are already clear, I would like to propose a change that will not be clear at first sight, but I think we can explain it. I think the easiest will be to refer to Mr Vondráček's amendment, which was distributed on the table yesterday. This means that I would join in voting on the procedure and giving priority to Mr Vondráček's amendment, which he described and which was therefore distributed on the table. I would merely propose a minor change in it, which is not a substantive change, but rather a legislative one, so that we do not really fail to vote on all the amendments. Because if we do not accept the change that I propose, then we will not get to the vote that concerns the original proposal of Mrs Válková and Mrs Benešová, who is concerned with the establishment of an obligation to lodge a declaration of property for judges and prosecutors. The change is relatively simple. There are two indents to point 4 of Mr Vondráček's procedure. The second indent has five points, and we would vote on proposals A2, A8, A13 to A20, A21 to A25, A28, A38, A39 together with one vote," added a new point and put it before the last two. The point would be new: "If proposals of G21 and G25 are adopted, vote on proposals A2, A8, A13 to A20, A22 to A24, A28, A38 and A39 together with one vote'. It is, therefore, rather that we do not forget to vote on the amendments to the Constitutional Committee in the case of the adoption of the G21 and G25 amendments, but initially the proposals of a colleague introducing this new obligation. If I could simplify this to Mr President, then if Mr Vondráček had agreed to this, I would have suggested that only once a procedure be voted on, namely the proposal by Mr Vondráček for a voting procedure which was handed out to everyone yesterday, at the same time in the wording of my amendment, which I have now spoken about and which is rather legislative. It doesn't affect the substance of the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u63	I must ask Mr Vondráček if he agrees with this proposal by Mr Tejc to adjust his proposed procedure. If not, I will first vote on Mr Tejc's proposal and then on your proposal. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u64	Yes, I agree. We've got a pre-arranged thing. I therefore propose that we vote on the alternative procedure as amended by my colleague Tejc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u65	Thank you. Thank you for the considerable simplification. We will therefore first vote on the draft procedure, as Mr Vondráček submitted as an alternative procedure, with the adjustment included in it by Mr Jeroným Tejc. Everyone understands what we're voting on? That's right. I am opening the vote on the draft procedure, as Mr Vondráček has put it, with the adjustment of Mr Tejc. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 159 vote. 189 Members and Members are registered, for 157, against none. The draft procedure has been accepted. I ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to approach the speaker's desk, present various amendments and give us an opinion on them before the vote. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u66	Vice-President, thank you. So we are going to have a rather interesting part of the working day, and this is going to be a match, so according to the approved procedure -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u67	I am sorry, rapporteur, it will be even more interesting if you tilt your microphone and you get louder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u68	Thank you, so I'll be louder. The first part of the procedure is the design of technical modifications according to § 95 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure presented at third reading. This therefore concerns amendments C, C1, which we will therefore vote on. But I think, from the perspective of the legislative process, we must agree now. And if C1 doesn't happen to be accepted, then we'll actually make it legislative. So I'm putting forward a proposal for technical adjustments according to the proposal tabled, that's an amendment under C1, where the word "number" is replaced by the word "numbers."
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u69	The rapporteur's opinion? [[Agreed.]] The Minister's position? Excuse me, Minister, please turn on your microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u70	I do not agree with the substance of the proposal, but I agree that it is necessary to adapt it in a legislative manner, as it was read, in order to be able to vote on it at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u71	I am sorry, the Rules of Procedure do not speak of such an opinion. Opinion agreed, disagreed or neutral. There's no other way. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u72	Consent to the legislative technical amendment of the proposal in order to be able to vote on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u73	So if none of the Members object to this position, we will vote. Initiating voting on the proposal for technical adaptations pursuant to § 95 para. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? The vote is 160, registered is 188 Members and Members, for 188. The motion was accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u74	Thank you. So now we will continue with proposal A1, which is therefore a legislative specification of the intelligence service, § 2 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (d). The proposal from the constitutional committee - recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u75	The Constitutional Committee recommends. The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote on proposal A1. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 161 vote, registered 189 Members and Members, for 187, against 1. This proposal has also been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u76	Thank you. For the next vote, I propose to vote on proposals A3 and A9 together with one vote. This is a legislative specification of the public interest. The opinion of the Constitutional Committee has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u77	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote on proposals A3 and A9. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote 162, registered 189 Members and Members, for 181, against 3. This proposal has also been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u78	Thank you. We will continue with the vote on proposals E1 to E23 by Mr Benda. This is simply characterised as a proposal maintaining the existing way of registering the notification of public officials. [[President: Opinion of the Committee?]] The opinion of the Committee on E1 to E23 has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u79	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote on proposals E1 to E23. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 163 vote, registered 189 Members and Members, for 72, against 92. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u80	In this case, we are following the voting procedure by voting on proposals from G21 and G25, which is therefore a proposal from my colleague. The paper on the pre-condition of the committee's proposals. As far as the Constitutional Committee is concerned, the Constitutional Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u81	So, as I understand it, we will vote on the G21 and G25 proposals, the Constitutional Committee recommends. The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote on proposals G21 and G25. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote 164, registered 189 Members and Members, for 186, against none. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u82	Thank you. We will now continue in accordance with the modified procedure by voting on proposals A2, A8, A13 to A20, A22 to A24, A28, A38, A39 together with one vote, as our colleague Tejc introduced us to this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u83	The position of the guarantee committee?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u84	As far as 21 goes... sorry, up to 25, the Constitutional Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u85	The Minister's position? [[Disagree, does not recommend acceptance.]] Initiating vote on proposals A2, A8, A13 to A20, A22 to 24, A28, A38, A39. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 165, registered 189 Members and Members, for 183, against none. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u86	I now propose to vote in the sense of the procedure on proposal G26. It is a proposal to limit the possibility of obtaining information from the register and the Constitutional Committee has not adopted recommendations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u87	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote on proposal G26. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote 166, registered 189 Members and Members, for 1, against 115. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u88	It has therefore now not been adopted, it has been rejected, so we will vote on proposal A26. Yes, A26, the opinion of the Constitutional Committee - recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u89	The Minister's position? [[He doesn't recommend it.]] Initiating vote on A26. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 167 vote, registered 189 Members and Members, for 32, against 96. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u90	We are now continuing with the vote on proposals A33, A34 and A36. This is a transitional provision for notifying Members of Parliament and, as far as the Constitutional Committee is concerned, the Constitutional Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u91	The Minister's position? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote on proposals A33, A34 and A36. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 168 vote, registered 189 Members and Members, for 188, against none. This proposal has also been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u92	Thank you and we will continue by voting on proposal A27, which is the definition of the moment of possible access to the register and the Constitutional Committee has not adopted this recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u93	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote on proposal A27. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the 169th vote, registered by 189 Members and Members, for 19, against 44. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u94	Thank you. We will continue with proposal A5, this is a ban on participation in procurement procedures under the law, in which the public official or the person controlled by him owns a minimum share of 25 per cent. The Constitutional Committee has agreed to recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u95	The Minister's position? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote on proposal A5. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 170 vote, 189 Members and Members registered, for 137, against 45. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u96	We now have a series of votes, which will be according to sub- headings § 4a, 4b and 4c. First vote on Section 4a, I therefore propose a proposal for an F1. As far as the constitutionally legal committee is concerned, the constitutionally legal committee recommends it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u97	The Minister's position on the F1? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote on proposal F1. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote 171, registered 188 Members and Members, for 36, against 66. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u98	The F2 proposal will be the subject of a further vote and here again the proposal by Mr Chvojka to remove the restriction on the right to share in profit. The Constitutional Committee has decided to recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u99	The Minister's position? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote on proposal F2. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote 172, registered 189 Members and Members, for 32, against 68. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u100	Thank you. As far as the next vote is concerned, we should vote on the A4 proposal in the section on Section 4a, and on the A10, and on the A29, A30, A31, A32 proposals in the section on the insertion of the new point (b) in Section 23 para. 1, and proposals 35 and 40, by one vote. As far as the material is concerned, this is a complement to the evidence, to the facts and to the transitional provisions. As far as the recommendations of the Constitutional Committee are concerned, I must say that it recommends the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u101	The Minister's position? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote on the proposal tabled. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 173 vote, 189 Members and Members registered, for 35, against 64. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u102	[[After a short search.]] We will vote on proposals D1.1 to D1.3 together with one vote because the proposals we have just voted on have not been adopted. So the proposals D1.1 to D1.3 concern the proposal of Mr Plíšek - a restriction on the business of a public official. The opinion of the Constitutional Committee has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u103	The Minister's position? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote on proposals D1.1 to D1.3. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote 174, registered 189 Members and Members, for 33, against 74. Nor has this proposal been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u104	We would therefore now proceed to the scope of Act § 4b by voting on proposals F3 to F6 together with one vote. It is a proposal by Mr Chvojka to release restrictions on the senior public official who does not have a share of profits, etc. As far as the Constitutional Committee is concerned, the F3 to F6 is recommended by the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u105	The Minister's position? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote on proposals F3 to F6. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 175 vote, 189 Members and Members registered, for 61, against 49. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u106	Since proposals F3 to F6 have not been adopted, it is necessary to vote on the proposal A4 relating to Section 4b, which I have referred to. [[They're asking again from the diaper.]] We will vote on the A4 proposal in the section on Section 4b and this is the result of the failure to adopt a previous vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u107	The position of the guarantee committee? [[The rapporteur is clear.]] Sorry, if there's any doubt, please, legislation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u108	I ask the legislation to explain, because I am based on a text that is consulted by you. We're continuing the procedure. [[It's time for a consult.]] Explained and progressed well. So I will repeat once again that we are voting on the A4 in the section relating to § 4b.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u109	The position of the guarantee committee?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u110	A4 - I am based on the fact that we voted A3 through A9, so it recommends an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u111	The Minister's position? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote on proposal A4 in section on Section 4b. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? The vote is 176, 189 Members and Members, for 34, against 49. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u112	So we are now continuing with the voting circle in the substance of § 4c. So now we are voting on the F1 proposal relating to 4c. Once again, it is the design of top officials to have with the voting rights of Mr Chvojka's colleague. As regards F1, it recommended constitutional law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u113	The Minister's position? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote on proposal F1 relating to Section 4c. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 177 vote, 188 Members and Members registered, for 132, against 42. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u114	We would now also vote on the F2 proposal in Section 4c. As far as F2 is concerned, this is Mr Chvojka's proposal - releasing restrictions on the right to share in profit. As far as the opinion of the Constitutional Committee is concerned, the Constitutional Committee recommends in Case F2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u115	The Minister's position? [[Neutral.]] I have begun voting on the F2 proposal relating to Section 4c. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 178, vote registered with 189 Members, for 131, against 41. This proposal has also been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u116	Thank you. As regards the next vote, it is the A4 proposal in the section relating to § 4c, the A11, the A29, the A30, the A31, the A32 in the section concerning the insertion of the new letter (c) in Section 23 para. 1, proposals A35, A37 and A40, together with one vote. [[11.20 hours]] There was a question about parliamentary legislation earlier. Is that okay, colleague? It's okay. So I won't repeat it again - it's a proposal A4 etc., as I imagined it. As far as the opinion of the Constitutional Committee is concerned, it is not entirely simple... Recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u117	Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral.]] I am opening the vote on the proposal as it has been put forward. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the 179th vote, 189 Members and Members are enrolled. For 133, against 42. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u118	Thank you. This dealt with the material content of § 4a, 4b and 4c. And we will continue with the vote on proposals A6 and A7 together with one vote. This is a specification of the replacement filling A6 and A7. The Constitutional Committee recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u119	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote on proposals A6 and A7. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 180 vote. 189 Members and Members are registered, for 185, against none. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u120	Thank you. We will continue by voting on proposal A12, which is an increase in the value limit of a single item which is not included in the summary, i.e. from 25 to 50 thousand, § 10 paragraph 2. As far as the Constitutional Committee is concerned, he recommends it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u121	The Minister's position? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote on proposal A 12. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 181 vote. 189 Members and Members are registered, for 182, against none. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u122	Thank you. We will continue by voting on proposal B1, which is the proposal of the mandate and immune committee, which contains the introduction of an additional deadline for notification. As far as the opinion of the Constitutional Committee is concerned, the Constitutional Legal Committee has recommended it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u123	The Minister's position on B1? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote on proposal B1. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote 182, registered 189 Members and Members, for 51, against 93. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u124	Thank you and we will continue with proposal B2, which is also a proposal from the mandate and immune committee to dismiss the possibility of developing a legal person for an administrative offense. As far as the Constitutional Legal Committee is concerned, the Constitutional Legal Committee has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u125	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote on proposal B2. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote 183, registered 189 Members and Members, for 32, against 87. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u126	Thank you and we will continue with the next vote, which is proposal B3 and B4, also the mandate and immunity committee, which introduces disciplinary proceedings for Members and Senators, with amendments to the Rules of Procedure. The draft Constitutional Committee on B3 and B4 - recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u127	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote on proposals B3 and B4. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the 184th vote, 189 Members of Parliament signed up. For 3, against 92. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u128	Thank you. We will now vote on proposals C1 and C2 together with one vote. This is affected by the legislative technical regulation that we have already voted on. It is Mr Vilímec's proposal to increase the limit of the amounts of movables in their summary, namely the announcement, from 250 thousand to 500,000. As regards the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, the Constitutional Committee did not adopt recommendations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u129	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote on proposals C1 and C2. All in favor, press the button. Who's against it? It's a 185 vote. Registered 189 Members, for 140, versus 1. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u130	Thank you. The second-last vote on this law shall be D2.1 and D2.2 jointly by one vote. This is a proposal from a colleague Plíška the business of a public official, prohibiting the provision of subsidies and investment incentives, where the Constitutional Committee recommended this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u131	The Minister's position? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote on D 2.1 and D 2.2. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 186 vote. Registered 189 Members, for 133, against 43. The motion was accepted. I think that we have dealt with all the amendments. Isn't that right, rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u132	Yes. I confirm that we voted on all amendments. The vote on the law as a whole remains.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u133	Now, let's step forward... pardon, with priority rights the President of the KSČM Parliamentary Club is reporting. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u134	Mr President, the Government, Madames and gentlemen, as I have already announced, after the votes that have taken place on amendments, the KSČM parliamentary club must consult on how it will proceed to the law as a whole. The point is that we did not expect some amendments to be accepted, but others that we expected to be adopted easily, so they remained in the trap. Of course, there is no doubt that KSČM will support the same standard and will be happy to support it. We have been saying from the outset, not only since the beginning of this parliamentary term, that political mandates are full-time mandates, as they say, and that one who serves the public in this way, whether as an MP, a senator or a member of the government, should not be distracted - and now the word distraction may have a broader meaning - of some other tasks than that of the public service. However, all this will be subject to an assessment of the overall position of the KSČM club to the law, and therefore I now request a break at the meeting of the KSČM club for a length of fifty minutes. At the same time, please club KSČM to the club space.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u135	Thank you, Prime Minister. I am declaring a break for the meeting of the KSČM club in the length of 50 minutes. Meet me here round 12.20 hours. I'm interrupting the House meeting until 12.20 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u136	I'm also asking my colleagues to join the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u137	Dear colleagues, a pause has passed at the meeting of the KSČM Members' Club and Pavel Kováčik, President of the KSČM Member's Club, is reporting with priority right. Following him with priority rights, the President of the ANO Parliamentary Club Jaroslav Faltýnek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u138	Thank you for the floor. Madam President... sorry, Mr President, Mrs and gentlemen... Yes. Let me briefly introduce you to the results of the meeting of the KSČM MEP on the final position or vote in the law on conflict of interest. You know, I was under the impression that this was some sort of major issue, I would almost say a civilization issue, if it were, or if civilization of the European type continued. And in the end, I feel like the mountain gave birth to a mouse. After all, a few interesting things lead us to consider the whole process of discussing this proposal, including voting on amendments... [[Restlessness in the room.]] Just a minute, don't worry, I'll hold off for a second. For example, you and many of you, colleagues and colleagues from other parties, were interested in me, especially those of you who discussed the proposals on the committee, that the amendments that were based on the workshop of a Member of Social Democracy and which were supported by the Social Democrats in the committee, so they then opposed the proposals here in the Chamber of Deputies. I am now referring to what the KSČM MP club wanted to support and advertise that it would support, and these are Mr Chvojka's proposals. On the other hand, it is good that, at least in part, what we as a communist club have been saying since long ago, since the beginning of these new ages, that if we serve, we should be independent. And now I don't mean independent as politically, but we're supposed to be independent of not serving anyone but a citizen. That means, if I own the media, there's an addiction. After all, I have a certain lead. If I have another power, for example, a very strong economic power, I certainly have a different starting line than other parties, movements, or individuals who perform the public service. We were pleased, on the other hand, that public procurement cannot be awarded to a company where the ownership of that policy is greater than a quarter. We were a little surprised, and maybe the Prime Minister here should think about how the government itself assessed the amendments, the minister, who put it here on many proposals, which came directly from the workshop of social democracy or government benches, didn't know, because a neutral position means that I don't know whether to be in favour or against. Perhaps the government was not able to find a united view on the three sides that rule together, and then it was better to play such a dead beetle. However, the result is that there has been a law that is slightly better than the solution to the present. For example, the benefit is that the 15-day deadline for making a declaration is no longer a voluntary matter, but the competent authority has the right and duty to almost call on those who fail to comply with the deadline to deliver the declaration promptly. These are things that are progress. However, he passed the office. It's another office, a hundred-million-dollar office that the taxpayer will have to pay, and of course there's another option, much cheaper, that hasn't been answered. He passed the office in a number of other offices, which are in order with the costs of around CZK 100 million. I'm sure they're stressful, too. I am quite impressed that those parties that claim to be very economical and economical supported the office. The result is a little bit embarrassed. A little toothless. As long as we have the office. But he is so embarrassed and toothless that I am personally convinced that colleagues and colleagues from the ANO movement can support him with a calm conscience. President Faltýnek, I believe he will tell us that he will support the law. But you know what? Even a little progress is progress. For us, for the Communist club, it eventually transported the positives that are. The whole club will support the bill with a single vote in the final vote. And it's more about whether we're going to try to achieve what we've advertised over the next few years that we want things to be more transparent. That we want things to be clearer, that politics should be more independent. To make the politician more independent in respect of fundamental civil rights. I don't want to touch the issue of property rights or the right to own. The right to dispose of your property and all that. But it must be balanced so that this right does not interfere with anyone in the performance of a good public service. Public services such as public service, not self-service. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u139	Thank you, Prime Minister. Also Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka for the vote. One tech, followed by Mr. Faltýnek. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u140	Thank you. Hello, Mr President, dear colleagues. I just want to put to the vote when I subsequently looked at the vote on motion D2.1 and D2.2 of Martin Plíšek on the amendment as regards restrictions on the business of a public official, I voted in favour. I was high for being late. I am not questioning this vote, but I am stating this for the tapestry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u141	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the ANO membership club Jaroslav Faltýnek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm the only one who made that remark to my colleague Pavel Kováčik. Hello, newspaper. Hello, hello. My friends, please, first of all, I would like to thank you for the fact that at least part of the common sense won and we did not support the majority of the fact that a member of the government must not own property. I would like to thank you very much for that, and thank you. As far as other matters are concerned, we have discussed this, advised in our parliamentary club, and basically we believe that it is against the fundamental principles of the rule of law to adopt laws designed to regulate the conduct of only one person. We wanted a law that would prevent a real conflict of interest for politicians regardless of their names. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. Petr Fiala, Chairman of the ODS, confirmed this on his Twitter. Excuse me, I'd like to read his opinion. "The conflict of interest law mainly addresses the conflict of interest of Andrej Babiš. There's no reason not to admit it. The law of one man is not ideal, yet it is necessary." For this reason, not because ODS President Petr Fiala says so, but because of this principle, we agreed not to support the final version of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u143	I thank Prime Minister Faltýnek. Before we move on to the final vote, I will call our colleagues from the lobby. I'll read the apologies. At 15 o'clock today, Mr Snopek apologizes for his participation in a foreign trip. From 14.30 to 16.15, Mrs Radka Maxová apologizes for personal reasons, Mr Rom Kostřica apologises today between 12 and 19 pm for work reasons. Mrs Miroslava Vostrá apologizes today from 13:00 p.m. due to negotiations in the region. Mr Leo Luzar also apologizes today at 17 o'clock for personal reasons. Mr Rom Kostřica apologizes from 12 o'clock for work reasons, and Mr Karel Augustin Andrle Sylor apologises between 11 and 19 o'clock because of negotiations in the electoral region. First, I'm signing you all off and I'm asking you to sign up with your voting cards. I'm sorry, but I'm gonna ask the rapporteur, or I'm gonna want his opinion. We will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 159/2006 Coll., on Conflict of Interest, as amended, and other related laws, pursuant to House press 564, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." The rapporteur's opinion? [[The Constitutional Committee recommends.]] The Minister's position? [[I recommend it, too.]] I am opening the vote on the bill as a whole. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 187 vote. 182 Members and Members are registered, for 135, against 39. The bill has been passed, and I am stating that consent has been given to the bill. I thank both the Minister and the rapporteur for their exemplary cooperation and pass on the management of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-14-ps2013-049-06-001-211.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We will continue with the other points we have on the agenda. The first point is
