ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u1	149. Government bill amending Act No. 218/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules and on the amendment of certain related laws (budgetary rules), as amended, and some other laws /house print 546/ - third reading We last discussed the press on 10 February this year at the 39th meeting, when we interrupted the debate at third reading. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall.]] At the rapporteur's table, Mr. Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš, as well as the rapporteur of the budget committee, is Mr.Roman Kubíček. Before continuing the debate, they ask for a speech by both the appellant and the rapporteur. First, I ask the Vice-President of the Government and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. I'm asking for peace of mind! Please transfer the discussions that are not covered by the budgetary rules to the foyer... Mr. Secretary, just a moment... I ask colleagues who are discussing another subject to do so outside the Chamber. Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me comment on the contributions made during the last discussion of the amendment to the budgetary rules. On the question of shortening the time limit for contribution organisations. The obligation to hold funds under the general account of the Treasury has already been introduced by some entities by amending budgetary rules No. 501/2012 Sb. Land fund of the Czech Republic, state funds, national fund, organizational units of the state had to cancel accounts with commercial banks and transfer money to the Czech National Bank within three months and made it. A longer period was left for the contribution organisations. The contribution organisations are fully state-owned because they are established by the organisational units of the State, so their accounts should be subordinated to them as soon as possible. It can be agreed with Mr Vilímc that the approval procedure of this law will take more time than the Ministry of Finance initially expected. The draft budgetary rules were sent to the Chamber of Deputies at the beginning of July 2015. The efficacy was then assumed from 1 January 2016. On the issue of a large number of amendments to the Budgetary Rules Act. Budget rules are amended relatively frequently. However, it should be noted that this is a general legal standard which has a very wide scope in terms of content. This Act governs the creation, functions, content of the medium-term perspective of the State budget and the State Final Account, revenue and expenditure of the State Budget, state financial assets and liabilities, financial management of the organisational units of the State, state facilities having a similar status to the organisational component of the State, security information services and contribution organisations set up by the State's organisational units, financial control, the conditions for setting up state funds, the management of the Treasury and the management of state debt and the management of funds concentrated in the National Fund. In many cases, these were amendments made by the adoption of other laws, e.g. changes caused by the adoption of a new Civil Code or Civil Service Act. The amendment to the budget rules prepared by the Ministry of Finance is not so much. They mostly reflect the facts arising from the membership of the Czech Republic in the European Union, i.e. issues concerning the provision of subsidies in particular. The proposal to repeat second reading. I don't think this proposal is really good, and it wouldn't help anything. To explain the general account of the Treasury. It is necessary to respond first to Mrs Marková's sentence, which was: "The proposal now regulates the obligation of local authorities, voluntary associations of municipalities and regional councils of the cohesion regions to have accounts subordinate to the Treasury and to set it straight.' Those entities already have accounts in the Czech National Bank for which they are granted grants, return financial assistance from the state budget, state funds and national fund. The accounts of the local authorities are also intended to receive or share taxes, unless the local authorities exclude this possibility by written notification to the Ministry and tax authorities. It is now only proposed that local authorities, voluntary associations of municipalities and regional councils of the cohesion regions should accept all funds provided from the State budget and, where appropriate, state funds and national funds, and be able to transfer or receive other funds at their discretion to such accounts. Similar arrangements are also proposed for public research institutions and public universities. On the issue of inclusion of health insurance companies. Completely identical questions have already been addressed during the second reading discussion. It is difficult to strictly separate state and other public funds. The public budget system is closely linked to the state budget. Moreover, the State controls other public bodies, sets rules for them, and this is one of them. The state subsidizes the system from more than one quarter, this subsidy is growing absolutely and relatively. [[9.10 hours]] Every time an interest group in health requires more funds, it also requires an increase in this subsidy from the state budget. The resources of health insurance companies will continue to be owned by health insurance companies and there is no risk that they could not be used for care. Only the place in commercial bank accounts will be held in the general account of the Treasury at the Czech National Bank. For insurance payers, virtually nothing changes or changes. At the branches of insurance companies, they will be able to continue to pay by card through the terminal of one of the banks without requiring an insurance account in the bank. It will be possible to continue receiving cash. It will be possible to place it on accounts with the Czech National Bank through branches of commercial banks and where the branch of the Czech National Bank does not reside. Payment for bank services in the health insurance account would be expenditure on the state budget. This is how it is written in the draft amendment of the law. The interest on the aggregate account shall be the income of the State budget. As regards the timely sending of money, the concerns expressed are exaggerated. For example, the Czech Social Security Administration has been operating with accounts at the CNB for years, managing larger amounts and more payments than all health insurance companies combined, and the loss of social insurance income from this title has not occurred. In principle, this is a one-day shift, which really does not constitute a problem with which it would not be possible to simply deal with better cash flow planning. One day of delay is a completely marginal problem for every sane financial director of a health insurance company, which is easy to solve. This should also be the new priority of each financial director - better planned cash flow and active communication with the Ministry of Finance in this area. At work level, the Ministry of Finance communicates the entire system of payments with representatives of health insurance companies in detail over the long term. The proposed amendment also offers an instrument to strengthen the competition of insurance companies through the prevention fund. For employee insurance companies, the current interest income amounts to an average of about one tenth of the resources to finance preventive programmes due to falling interest rates, so it is a minor outage of approximately CZK 50 million. However, in the amendment to the Employment Insurance Act, we are proposing two new sources of the prevention fund - transfer of the promile from the basic fund, savings on fees for banking services from this fund and unlimited transfer from the operational fund. The more efficient the insurance company will provide its operation, the more it can add to preventive programs. We consider these measures to be sufficient. I hope I have answered all the questions from previous readings, and I ask that this law be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u3	Thank you, Minister of Finance. I ask if the rapporteur wants to speak before the end of the debate. It's not like that. We will continue the debate. First, Mrs Soňa Marková, Mr Jiří Skalický, will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, my dear government, my colleagues, allow me to say a few more words after all. Maybe I'll repeat myself a little bit, 'cause I didn't finish my performance last time. I will not speak too much in general, I would just like to say and even say a little bit to argue with the Minister about what concerns health insurance companies. I believe that neither the State nor any law has stated that health insurance companies are a state enterprise and can therefore dictate where they should have accounts and what to do with the money in the accounts. I think that's the basic thing. Health insurance companies do not work with the finances of the state, but with insurance that is paid by employees, employers and other persons who pay insurance. The proposal put forward here, in my view, goes against the logic of the creation of public health insurance, when the financing of health care was introduced separately from the State through health insurance. And now to the problematic circuits. In my opinion and in the opinion of the insurance companies themselves, employees, industry, corporate and other health insurance companies outside the VZP will lose funds that constituted part of the income of their prevention fund. These are interest on accounts held with commercial banks. This loss will be compensated, but it has so far been sources outside the public health insurance system. In the future, these resources should be taken directly from insurance premiums. The argument that the interest rate is now low is true, but it does not resolve the situation in the future nor does it deal with the above, i.e. that it has not yet been the sources of insurance. Furthermore, health insurance companies and health insurance companies, as well as other entities, will have a problem with transfer and deposit payments. So far, they can be dealt with by a deposit at commercial banks. The Czech National Bank does not have a branch system. The Czech National Bank deals with this problem with an agreement with a commercial bank. However, I do not know with which costs and who will bear these costs, whether they are included in the item for keeping accounts or whether they will be paid by entities which are obliged to keep accounts to a subordinate Treasury. In the proposed version under the Treasury, the accounts of health insurance companies that are not generated from health insurance but from so-called "health insurance" will also fall. the taxed activities. So there's no reason for them to fall under the Treasury. This is addressed by an amendment that, when adopted, will actually solve the problem. The Czech National Bank cannot accept orders on the same day, so there will be an extension of the deadline between sending orders and transferring funds. The owners of the accounts of the subordinate Treasury will be obliged to grant the Czech National Bank consent to the provision of information on the state and movements of funds in these accounts to the Ministry of Finance. So far, such information has been communicated directly by the mandatory entities of the Ministry of Finance. I am not exactly aware of the extent of information that will flow between the Ministry of Finance and the Czech National Bank. For the next one. The owners of some accounts of subordinate state cashiers, including the region and municipalities, will be able to keep part of their funds, in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, in order to increase the effectiveness of liquidity management of the Treasury in the account of the subordinate state cashier at an agreed amount and for a predetermined period. Is there any pressure from the Treasury? If you don't, won't you? The Ministry of Finance is based on the newly proposed § 34 para. 6 has the right to set the dates and scope of the payment arrangements for all account holders of the State Treasures account and to allow its derogations for the execution of payment operations in those accounts. To date, it has only applied to expenditure on the state budget. The explanatory memorandum doesn't give much specific data. It states that this is a necessary precondition for further rationalising the use of available funds by the State in relation to the financing of state debt and the implementation of emission activities on domestic and foreign markets. Therefore, we do not have a legally guaranteed procedure or scope of such authorisation. So can the Ministry of Finance selectively determine payment dates for individual entities or the amount of transfers and for how long? Representatives of the Ministry of Finance are talking about the maximum amount of units of days, but no one has been able to guarantee that this is not an exploitable instrument. These are, therefore, questions that need to be answered or clear answers before we can accept this law. For the reasons set out above, in my view, it is necessary to vote in favour of the amendments approved by the Committee on Health. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Sona Marková. Now, Mr. Jiří Skalický, Mr. Petr Bendl will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u7	I will interrupt you, my colleague, and ask the House again for peace of mind. We're at third reading, we're ahead of the bill approval. So I ask that you pay attention to this discussion, or to discussions that are not relevant, really conducted outside the meeting room... I really mean it! Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u8	Thank you. In my speech, I would also like to respond to the amendments under E1, E2, tabled at second reading by a fellow Member, Professor Vyzula. It relates, of course, to a topic that has been discussed very intensively on the Health Committee, and these are the accounts of health insurance companies at the Czech National Bank. Before the final vote, I would like my colleagues to hear some arguments about principle, not details, especially health professionals, because I see some risks in that philosophy, regardless of which Minister of Finance is currently or will be at the Ministry in the future. I'd split my contribution into two parts. The first part concerns really keeping an account with the Czech National Bank, and here I would just like to say briefly that it is a system of public health insurance, which has always been designed as separate, self-governing and separate from the state budget. The State has entrusted funds from clients of health insurance companies to health insurance companies as such. The selected premium is not the income of the State, but it is the separate income of public health insurance. I believe that the health insurance fund does not have and should not be subsidised by the government debt service. That's the basic systemic difference in view of things. The wording of the Minister of Finance, quoted from the 19th of January, shows that the change is being set here. I quote: "I don't want to talk about health care, I don't want to talk about how many insurance companies we need. This is advantageous and has nothing to do with health care or the number of insurance or health care. It is a purely pragmatic financial operation that will improve us, yes, improve our debt." So the Ministry of Finance's position is absolutely explicit and clearly declared. The inclusion of health insurance companies in the Treasury chapter, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, that this is a necessary increase in the level of control over financial flows, is a bit purposeful in view of the special arrangements for the supervision of the management of health insurance undertakings. For several years, health insurance companies have submitted on a quarterly basis all relevant data, economic parameters. In particular, recent reports by health insurance companies have been very detailed, clear and sufficient, especially after the adoption of a transparent amendment, when insurance companies, in particular VZPs, publish all the contracts available to them. As far as the negative effects that health insurance companies might have had on this step have been discussed several times. I would mention here only one single issue that I believe can really affect the management of health insurance companies, and this is that when transferring and transferring an account to the Czech National Bank, there is a risk of a decline in the collection of insurance premiums by several percentage points, which is in order of hundreds of millions, namely units of billions, for a period of one year. So it could be a short-term blackout, but it can be assumed that this blackout will be. This impact will be particularly in the area of recovery of debts. And we all know, in particular, that colleagues who sit on the board of health insurance companies, that the recovery of debts is a never-ending story, and every insurance company fights it. I would just like to say here that the effectiveness of the selection of the General Health Insurance Company last year was 98.77 %. So very tall. And even if we allow this approach, that is. accounts with the Czech National Bank, which is quite an understandable step from the perspective of the Ministry of Finance - which Minister of Finance would not want to have supervision of all accounts that occur in the Czech Republic? - I consider the second part significantly more serious or more risky, and I would like my colleagues from the health sector, especially those, to be aware, and this is therefore the amendment clause 19 § 34 para. 6, which has already been quoted here. I'm not quoting the whole thing. The Ministry is entitled to determine the account holders in accordance with Section 3 (a). (h) the dates and scope of the payment arrangements, etc. I believe that in this formulation the risk and potential of selective decision-making by the administrative authority and the possibility to disadvantage or influence the selected entity are indeed hidden. It is very interesting that this proposal and this wording of the law in the submitted form do not address the form of this authorisation or the procedural aspect at all. So there is no description of the situation in which this can happen, whether it will only be from the Minister's decision, or the Government's decision will be needed, etc. Therefore, it can be concluded that there really is a great deal of freedom, and translated into a normal language, a little exaggeration when the Minister decides, so without any limitations or consultations he can order, influence the amount and extent of payments to any health facility - whether to a state or a private person, it does not matter. Here at this point, in this paragraph, we see a risk that is not described in detail as being treated further. So summarized, health insurance accounts at the Czech National Bank - the principle of separating public health insurance from the state budget is changed. Second, Article 34 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty does not apply. 6, there is a clear risk for the future to be able to selectively control or influence certain medical devices, albeit repeatedly expressed from the mouth of the Minister and from the mouth of Deputy Minister Ing. Gregor on the Health Committee, that this is completely out of the question and that nothing is really going to happen. And the last thing I'd like to ask is whether this step and this risk are aware of health professionals, health unions, the Czech Medical Chamber, etc., or whether they agree with the principle and they don't really care, because the steps I'm mentioning here will never happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u9	I thank Mr Jiří Skalický. Before we continue the debate, I will read an apology. Mr Milan Šarapatka apologizes for reasons of work within 10 hours. Now, Mr Petr Bendl, Mr Miroslav Kalousek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak in support of the resolution of the Health Committee and, if necessary, the amendment made by Mr Vilímec, who is essentially identical to what the Health Committee proposes, and this is the removal of health insurance companies from the system of compulsory account management at the Czech National Bank. I mean, I understand the finance minister's desire to concentrate power and influence the health sector. That it is not enough to influence some other areas in the sector in the Czech Republic, but that it also wants to influence what is happening in the field of health care provision. Those of us who somehow encounter the funding of health care in the Czech Republic and have often performed here, or have also spoken on the Health Committee, know well that it is not state funds, but it is public funds, which is not the same. [[9.30 hours]] This may be the case from a citizen's point of view, but from a factual and legal point of view, it is public funds collected from individual people and managed on the basis of decisions made by these people and individual health insurance companies. And what he's proposing here is that insurance companies and health systems want more and more subsidies, and that's why we need to know what's really going on in this system, and that's why insurance companies need to be more in control, because the money needs to get worse and worse, bureaucratic, senseless deterioration in functioning with the budgets of individual health insurance companies. When the Minister here argues that it is possible to deposit funds at individual branches of the Czech National Bank, for those of you who do not know, they have branches of about six throughout the Czech Republic, first of all. Secondly, the Czech National Bank has an exceptional position among banks in the Czech Republic. It's a little different. The whole effort is about concentration of power. And that's basically what you're gonna decide. Whether you want the Minister of Finance not to actually allow or influence the management of individual health insurance companies in a way or more, and thus to control them more. You decide whether you want to give more power to the Minister of Finance or rather push the government and the Minister of Finance to invent a system that will not need state subsidies and will not need so much power to the Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u11	I thank Mr Petr Bendl and we continue the debate with the speech of Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u12	Thank you for the floor and good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I did not sign up with priority rights because I would like to ask you to understand that I am using my position as a Member so that I can answer the Minister as a health insurance worker. He said there's nothing that's gonna change for the health insurance people. It would certainly be true if he said that nothing would change for health care workers in the field of health care. But the purpose for which he sends his mandatory insurance policies will change significantly for health insurance workers. The money we're sending to the state from taxes doesn't have bows, and he can use it any way he wants. The money we send to compulsory insurance in the case of health insurance to public health insurance companies has and may be used only for the provision of health care. To this end, we all send our health insurance, not for any other purpose. The only significance of this change proposed in the budgetary rules is that the purpose should be extended so that, at the time the surplus is incurred in the health insurance account, the Ministry of Finance can use it for cash flow of its debt services. That basically means borrowing my money from me as an insured person for a different purpose than providing health insurance. And that is a significant change for me, Minister, as an insured person. I'm not just sending the money to health care anymore, but I'm sending it to lend it to you under certain circumstances for cash flow debt service management. And when I look at the cost of the state budget you're borrowing and bailing out of that debt service, let me tell you, as a health insurance man, I don't really want to loan you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u13	I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek. We continue with the factual remark made by Mr Jan Volný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to say from this place, unlike my colleague Kalousek, that I, as an insured person, want to borrow this money. I, of course, when I was taking the annual fees at my firm, I had dolls swiveling over what kind of contributions I was making. It didn't bother me. I understand the whole principle of insurance, but I don't see why my money, if it's supposed to be lying on a bank account in a total of billions, couldn't work and make money for me again because I'm part of the state. The discussion that it's not state money - I guess it's true. I don't want to question the sovereignty of VZP at all, but we say here, and now there's a lot, a lot of talk about it, that the state is a community of people, that is, those insured people. And we as a state have the right or the duty to use this money as efficiently as possible. VZP is a sovereign organization, but its revenue is modelled by the state. That is, we Members say how much we will pay for insurance because we determine the amount of taxes. The expenses are being restored again by the state. The Department of Health is making a payment decree, and that's the insurance cargo. Why, then, shouldn't the money that lies in that account be made available so that it can be used for the benefit of the state, those citizens and those insured people? That's why I say as an insurance man, I like to borrow the money, I know they won't get lost, except they'll be working at a time when they're down on the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u15	Thank you for keeping time with the honourable Member. We have two further factual points, namely Mr Rom Kostřica, and Mr Plzák will prepare himself for a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I want to look at this problem from a doctor's point of view. Please note that our health services are still heavily underfunded. There's a lot of diseases we're capable of treating, but we don't have the money. You realize that. And that will certainly increase, because the new methodologies that are are extremely expensive. And we really - few people want to hear it - are able to treat some diseases, but we don't have the money. I think it is absolutely reprehensible not to use these funds that are here for the benefit of these patients. I don't think insurance companies should have any surplus money, because we're capable - and I'm going to say it here, maybe it doesn't sound very good - we're only able to compete with foreign health care with a low price paid by health care, which means doctors, nurses, etc. And I think that any transfer of these funds for the benefit of the state, even if it were more purposeful, is completely inappropriate and 100% reprehensible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u17	I thank Mr Kostřic. Now, Mr Pavel Plzák, also on the point of fact, and I have other factual points. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I really want to respond to the fact that it was said here that it wasn't state money lying there. Please, can you tell me who's putting money in there for the unemployed, for the retired, for the kids? That didn't even ring a bell. That's state money, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u19	Thank you. Now, Mrs Soňa Marková, also on the point of fact. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u20	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to my previous speaker in that sense - now I mean Mr Volný. Because he says he likes to give the money as an insurance man. But what if they stand with the means they're going to do wrong? He's gonna do the wrong thing. That's not entirely impossible. Then what is it? Because the department, the health insurance department from the state budget has a purpose. This is so that the money is really used only for funding, for health care. What if the state manages the funds badly? Then what? Then the money will probably be missing to cover the health care that patients need. We should also get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u21	Thank you. Another factual point by Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u22	I don't want to make this a philosophical debate, but I'm still shaking my head over Dr. Plzák's reasoning, who feels like there's some insurance money and some money from the state. The money in the state budget, Doctor through Mr President, is none other than insurance money. Everyone is insured in our country, either insures themselves or insures the state. And the state has no money but the money of its citizens. We just send insurance to provide our healthcare. And here's the question, whether, like all insured people, whether state insured people or our own insured people, we want to use the insurance for something other than health care. You and Mr. Volný say yes, we say no. Then we'll decide by vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u23	Yes, I'm sure it will. Mr Leoš Heger will now also make a point of fact and Mr Janulík will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning. I would like to respond to Mr Volný by your means, Mr Vice-President. Although I am not an expert on macroeconomics, I must say that, as an elected Member, I have a problem with your argument in the sense that if an insured person gives his money from the State's directive on public health insurance, this money belongs to the State and can be treated as he pleases. I think that in this logic, therefore, the YES movement, which sometimes declares itself to be the right hand side, is claiming to be a hard centralism of the state. Secondly, in this logic it can be said that every health institution must be insured under the responsibility of patients, and this also tells it that it must be insured. So even this money could go to the state, to the state bank. So I'm asking if the Budget Committee, along with the Minister of Finance, presumes that we will be nationalizing all the insurance companies in charge of health care facilities in a few moments. And they're commercial insurance companies separated from the state, just as the public sector is partially separated from the state. The state is also supervising those commercial insurance companies. So the logic isn't much different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u25	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Janulík is now also making a point of fact. Mr Kostřica will be ready one more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u26	Thank you, Mr President. It won't let me say a few little things here. Please, it's called insurance, but it's not really insurance at all. It's a normal health tax. First of all. Two. When the General Health Insurance Company gets in trouble, who gives her money? Who gave her a refundable financial aid? Ministry of Finance. Who else but the state just guarantees it? To Margo's colleague Marková. It's not like there's a one-way street on the road, but it's not like there's a one-way street. And why is it called insurance? That touching effort to make... Different things around here are called insurance, for example. sickness insurance. But it's not insurance. Because it's being massively abused. When the sickness insurance fund gets in deficit, the Treasury Secretary just has to send money to get the sick to get the money. So here's the touching attempt to call it private money and insurance all of a sudden, that's nice, but let them really do the job. If it was a classic insurance company that insures risks, but this isn't a classic insurance company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u27	We have raised a number of other factual points. Mr. Rom Kostřica, Mr. Jan Volný, Václav Votava, Miroslav Kalousek, Ludvík Hovorka, will now prepare. So, please, Mr. Ambassador, one more point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u28	Thank you. I'd like to pick up one more aspect here. I believe that this completely unlawful proposal in relation to the fact that we are paying health insurance, whether it is tax or whatever it is, is health insurance that this goes to another purpose. I believe that I am not an expert on constitutional law, but I believe that this is a violation of the Constitution, and I think that this issue could be dealt with very well by the Constitutional Court. Because I think that this is really illegal, reprehensible, and it is definitely necessary for this part to be abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u29	Thank you. Mr Jan Volný is now also making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u30	Thank you for the floor. I'm just really, really short. We're saying he's gonna be working with state insurance money. Yes. You think if this money is in a commercial bank of five, eight billion, the general insurance company doesn't work with it? Well, of course he's working with them, but there's always the insurance company that's got the full amount of money he put in there. And yet this is exactly how it will be if it is in the Czech National Bank. Yeah, he's gonna be working with it, but he's got to have the money whenever he's got it. And commercial banks do it the same way. They're not gonna leave the money lying there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u31	Thank you. Now Mr Votava also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to assure Mr Heger that the Committee on Budgets does not want to nationalise any funds. Mr Mr President, certainly not the coalition part. I kind of didn't understand your statement. As a guarantee committee, the Committee on Budgets approved some amendments specifying the position of VZP in the Treasury. So I mean, we've dealt with a lot of things so that it's for the benefit of the insured and, of course, the insurance companies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u33	I thank Mr Votav for his time and clear expression. Now, Mr Miroslav Kalousek, Mr Ludvík Hovorka will prepare to sign up for factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u34	I would really like to ask that, at least in the parliamentary debate, we do not confuse the basic concepts. With all due respect to the doctors at the Yes House of Deputies, I'm not pointing at my hand either, and I'm not saying I have a femur there. Just yes, Dr. Janulík is right that it's not private insurance, it's public insurance. But it's not a health tax, even if the taxpayer understands it that way, and he doesn't care if he's paying income tax or health insurance, it's a direct burden on his wages. But it's not a tax in the public budget system, it's insurance. If it were a tax, it would be the income of the state budget and the state could deal with it in any way for any purpose. Because tax revenue on the balance sheet revenue does not have a purpose. This is the income of the Public Health Insurance Corporation and it has one purpose and that's health care. Yes, we can decide by the Budgetary Rules Act that, in addition to providing health care, the surplus of health insurance companies will sometimes recover the costs of the debt service to the Minister of Finance in the state budget. If the House decides that, it'll be legal. The only question is whether we want it or not. And that's fair, and that's how it is. And don't misunderstand concepts that aren't accurate or even false.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u35	Thank you. Now, Mr Ludvík Hovorka and for the third time, Mr Leoš Heger - sorry for the second time. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u36	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, of the approximately 250 billion crowns in health insurance companies, three quarters of the money collected from insured people and their employers and one quarter of the money sent there by the State for the state insured. But what's going on here in this proposal? In my opinion, the principle is that the money that is in health insurance companies is the money of health insurance and should be separated from the state budget. [[9.50 hours]] I personally see two of the biggest problems in this proposal. One is, firstly, a delay in payments to health care professionals by at least one day and, secondly, the possibility that the State may order the maturity of invoices. Because in the relevant section and paragraph it is written that the money that will be concentrated on the account of the Czech National Bank can be decided by the Ministry of Finance when it will be due. I see it as the greatest risks here in this proposal, which is why I have supported the amendments to the Health Committee and I also support them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u37	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka for his time on the point of fact. Now, Mr Leoš Heger. I am merely warning the members of the board of directors and supervisors of health insurance companies to report, if necessary, a conflict of interest, given that we are talking about how the health insurance company works. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u38	So I'm reporting a conflict of interest because I'm a member of the General Health Insurance Board. I spoke the second time to apologize, through Mr President, to President Votav, because I realized that I had approached Mr Volný incorrectly and should have addressed him as Vice-President of the Committee. So, Mr Votav, there is no danger that I would suspect him of trying to nationalize anything, and this is true only of Mr Volné. Because, as I have already mentioned, as part of his argument that we are all citizens of the state and our deposits in the public health insurance system, we are morally obliged to put the state at our disposal to do what it wants with them, so maybe another consideration that might follow is that all of the deposits we have with some banks, we would rather than put in these commercial banks that make around 50 billion a year, so we should actually put in some state bank as well. So I'm asking if you're also not in the view that the banking system will gradually return to the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u39	I thank Mr Leoš Heger. Now, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura on a point of fact, Mr Jiří Štětina will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u40	Now I don't know what you meant about the conflict of interest. I'm insured by one of the insurance companies, and I'm assuming that each of us, so I don't know if we're all gonna say by law. [[- I'm sure you didn't.]] Well, I don't have to if I'm just an insured person. [[President: No, only those members of the administrative and supervisory boards.]] Thank you. I would like to support the logical consideration of my previous speaker, Mr Heger. Mr Volný here has shown such a nice left-wing consideration that we are actually a state, and what is a citizen, or an insurance company, is simply logically owned by the state. And he spoke with such passion and interest that it was five to eight billion, which lies in those suspicious private banks, and it would be much better... Well, Mr Vice-President of the Budget Committee through Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, you proposed a state budget deficit of 70 billion this year. Not five. Not eight. If you'd listened to at least part of our proposed savings that we found in the amount of 30 billion, you'd have found the eight billion there so easily and you didn't have to touch the money that just doesn't belong to the state. I've already said at second reading that if you want them to belong to the state, cancel the system that works, that's legal, legitimate, put in one state insurance company, and then you have every right to do so. At the moment it's public health insurance, it's not state health insurance, so don't come here thinking that the state actually owns everything. The state provides care, so we should also cancel private hospitals or even regional hospitals, because they are not state and God knows how they draw the money... That's the thought that the state takes care of everything best. I don't think so, but I respect the left-wing political view when someone thinks so, and that's why we meet in those discussions. Or is it called state health insurance? It's not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u41	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Jiří Štětina, Mrs Gabriela Pecková will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u42	Hello. Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very interested in the left-wing and right-wing debate on health insurance. I say quite clearly: I will support the resolution of the Health Committee, because it is neither left nor right, it is simply quite normal. I have been following basic indicators on the Ministry of Health's website for at least two and a half years, i.e. how much insurance companies have on funds. And they're very interesting numbers. Why do I say that? Of course, I will not be involved in a debate that is very busy here, and I really think that the origin is where someone knows about it and who knows how money just went missing in health care and maybe it could be lost. But I specifically did. The Ministry of Health issued it, and I think it issued it well, but until October last year, what were the total balances on bank accounts at the end of the current period. Today we have March, and we have the last data from September 2015. I think we should know this number in 2015, because it's always had a latency that's been about six weeks. Furthermore, there was a basic health insurance fund, which also ends in September 2015, and other data are no longer there, and then basic indicators of the activity of health insurance companies in years where the number of insured persons is total, revenues, and expenses, and we have it there only in 2014. So I'm asking why we don't have it there in 2015, so we can make our own picture when someone's looking for something. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u43	Thank you. Now, Mrs Gabriela Pecková, on a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u44	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to respond to one myth, namely that this proposal will not affect the insured as such. There's no way that's true. I am very concerned by Section 34 and paragraph 6, where it is said that the Ministry can decide on the dates and extent of payments made by the medical facility. Please, a medical facility, if it's a small outpatient facility, it's obviously very dependent on both. Both volume and maturity. And they will think very much about reducing payments or delaying deadlines for how much medical care they can provide. The second issue is also investment in the purchase of new technical equipment, where, at the moment when such equipment does not receive due maturity in its proper volume and term, they will not be able to repay loans, leases, mortgages, etc. As far as large health establishments are concerned, of course, if this is done in the reduced volume, the payment, or the deferred maturity date, then of course, some of the planned operations will be postponed and it will simply appear in the volume, in the scope of care provided. So the fact that it doesn't touch the provider is absolutely not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u45	Thank you, Mrs Pecková. Mr Petr Bendl now. Before I give him my word, I apologize from 12.30 to 13 o'clock to Mr. Jiří Běhounek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u46	Thank you for the floor. I think it has been said a lot and maybe we are spinning in circles, but since I have been called upon, I also want to report a conflict of interest, because I am a member of the Supervisory Board of the General Health Insurance Corporation, which, I mean the Supervisory Board, does not affect what is meant to be, but rather controls what has been done in the past. Just two notes. I think the Minister of Finance wants to gain more influence on decisions and his own decisions in the field of health care, at the expense of insured people, and I think there is one more hidden thing. [[10.00 hours]] Because we knew about the tendencies of the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance that he wanted to concentrate with the Czech National Bank originally also the accounts of individual cities, municipalities, or regions and so on, because this is how he wants to improve the economic result of the Czech Republic. I think it's obvious that he wants to work with the money, not those who are responsible for individual budgets, because it's normal, and everyone has to know, in Agrofert too, that when you have free funds, you manage them on the market. You're trying to figure out how much the bank would give you on interest, if it's not possible with the funds you don't need right now, work at some point, save them, and so on. This is what the State wants, by the way, to take the finance minister from individual subjects within the state in order to improve its management at the expense of someone who owns the funds from the law at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u47	Thank you. Now three more factual points. Mrs Marková, Mr Hovorka and Mr Rais. Everyone to a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u48	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I also have to announce a conflict of interest because I am a member of the Board of Directors. Secondly, I would like to undertake a minor education by one of my previous speakers. It is true that each state will decide how to pay for its patients' health care. Either in the form of public health insurance, as is the case with us and in other countries of the world, or in the form of a state fund, such as in the UK. I'm sure it's not left-wing or right-wing. As far as I know, Great Britain is not a left-wing country, yet it has so-called state health care. So please, let's not simplify this view. It is not left-wing or right-wing, but the country decides to pay for care either in the form of public health insurance or in the form of a state fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u49	Thank you, Mrs Marková. Now, Mr. Ludvík Hovorka. Mr. Rais will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u50	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I also announce a conflict of interest, because I am a member of the Supervisory Board of the VZP. And once again, however logical the proposal seems for the savings of state resources from the State Treasury, I see Section 34 paragraph 34 as the most serious problem. 6, this is the possibility of setting the deadline and scope of payments, or the Ministry may decide when a specific health insurance undertaking will pay to its healthcare facility, contractual partners, and it is also a delay in payments by at least one day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u51	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Mr Karel Rais's point of view now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u52	I would only briefly respond to what Mr Bendl said here in terms of strengthening the role of the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance specifically by manipulating the funds deposited in the Treasury. I would like to say that, in fact, the problem of the Treasury and the manipulation of funds began about four or six years ago, when, of course, there was no YES. They were actually using and using funds like universities that are here in the Treasury. It's just to add that the D.O.D. is unnecessarily labeling some kind of concentration of power. It's been here a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u53	I thank Mr Rais. Mr Janulík's final point in fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. By means of you to Mr Hovorka, that he is afraid of the paragraph that the State will determine how he will pay for the medical facility. You know, colleagues, I'm actually at the General Health Insurance Agency as an insured person and as a provider from the very beginning. I remember the time the insurance company paid with six months' maturity. We were getting crappy money, and we were still getting it in six months. We had to survive the whole thing somehow, and there was no power, and there was no god in this state that would change that in any way. So even now, of course, all providers are experiencing relatively better times, because these patterns of the 1990s are no longer happening, but nevertheless the insurance company will just pay when she wants to. And most importantly, she'll pay as much as she wants. We have absolutely no defense against it. No one can trace it, check it out. We have concluded contracts that should be followed, but we will know exactly when the insurance company will be in bad shape because we will be late for payments. Of course, the head of the insurance company, which has such a huge turnover, if you do the math, it's going to be about half a billion a day, if they hold off payments to doctors, providers and hospitals by five days, so they're going to improve their account by two and a half billion. And that happens today and every day. You have no idea, you don't. Now you're touchingly concerned that something happens, but that it's been happening for 25 years, you're okay with it. I'm gonna be the first one, because, of course, I'm gonna feel it myself as a physical person if I'm late for payments, so I'm gonna start cursing the Treasury that the effect hasn't been fulfilled, and it's worse than it was. But I believe that, on the contrary, it will provide real support to providers in that it will suddenly become visible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u55	Mr. Ambassador, your time. Thank you. That was not the last point of fact. One more point in fact, Mr Vilímec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u56	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would just like to respond to Mr Rais, who spoke about the state using the money of universities or public universities within the Treasury. It's not like that. Public universities are not yet mandatory clients of the Treasury unless they voluntarily transfer money to the Czech National Bank.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u57	Thank you. Mrs Pecková, on a point of fact. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to delaying payments, I wonder if the state at this point is going to be the one who will eventually release the extraordinary funds, because that's what it is in that section. If a contractual health insurance undertaking were to be in a slip with payments, if the funds were to be extraordinarily released to compensate for such a slip. And then it's up to the owner of the medical facility. Perhaps, in some cases, there would be no delay, on the contrary, the implementation would be released on time or even before the deadline. That's the question. The paragraph here allows you to move forwards and backwards. But we're all equal and some more equal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u59	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Because I can't get off, I don't have anyone to replace, so I'm keeping the note to myself. Now, if no one is reporting, I am ending the debate. I'm asking about the Minister's final words. He's interested in the final word. Then the rapporteur's final word. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to respond to the debate, even though I don't understand it at all. [[Cheer and applause in the right side of the hall.]] If you want to debate money, try to learn what an economic result is, cash flow and debt, because some of you don't control it at all. I'd just say it again. What we're proposing has absolutely nothing to do with medical care. That's point number one. 1. Secondly, it's all about money. And that money has nothing to do with insured people. They paid, and it's health insurance money. [[10.10 hours]] The largest contributor to health insurance companies is the state. We're paying 64 billion for state insurance, and that's a quarter of the health insurance charges. So it has nothing to do with anything. That's health insurance money. That's all. And those health insurance companies... So it has nothing to do with spending the state budget, managing... We're just talking about health insurance money. So, please, what are you saying about health care? That's all nonsense and lies. [[Report to the right side of the hall.]] So it's the money the health insurance companies have where? Well, commercial banks. In private commercial banks. How much do they have now? Well, they've got 15 billion at the moment. And what do commercial banks do with the money? Well, they do. They give loans. And that's okay with you? And the fact that we want them to compete and lend to the state for one day, that's what bothers you? So this is an absurd debate, please. Absurd debate. Again, it has nothing to do with medical care. Those aren't insurance loans. That's health insurance money. And I really enjoy having members of the VZP Supervisory Board perform here. Mrs Marková, through Mr President, indeed VZP, you have questioned the state's management here. So VZP is a model of good management. IZIP. Proton center. And the cook. And I don't know what it was all about. You've got a great director there. He's been there a long time, too. Political party agreement. jo. The VZP's doing a great job. Really great. So I'd really like us to get to the point. And here's where the state comes in saying it gives benefits. We say there will be no bank charges. Yes, we want to cash flow so that the state can use it, because the debt of the state is the debt of all of us. So it's actually simple, and I don't understand why you're against it. Repeat. It doesn't affect care. It doesn't affect you. It's not any... It's health insurance money. And they've got enough. Yes. And they stay in the accounts. And we're going to, and hopefully it won't happen, that the money is so much that we're borrowing for negative interest today, so we're borrowing and someone's paying us. So, at the end of the day, those insurance companies aren't ever gonna be happy that they lent it to the state, because they're not gonna want that negative interest from them. So please, let's stay with the money. And everything else that's gone isn't true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u61	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrea Babiš. Now the final... The rapporteur is not interested in the final word. Then we can continue. Before the rapporteur proposes a way of voting, we must decide on Mr Vladislav Vilímec's procedural proposal to repeat the second reading. This is a separate proposal that fell at third reading and must be voted on before other amendments. I will call the colleagues I asked to leave the Chamber for noise, back to the O.R., so they can take part in the vote. I'll check you all out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We will vote on Mr Vladislav Vilímec's proposal to repeat the second reading. The number of applicants has stabilized, we can begin voting number 18. I'm asking who's in favour of repeating second reading. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 18, with 171 Members present for 44, against 93. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the amendments. I ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, Mr Roman Kubíček, to introduce us to the voting procedure, then to present the various amendments and to give the opinion of the guarantee committee before the vote. I'll ask the Minister to do the same. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have received two voting procedures, so on the first point, I will introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee on the Government Bill amending Act No. 218/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules and amending certain related laws, as amended, House Press 546. The Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, as a guarantee committee after the second reading of the bill, first recommends that the Chamber of Deputies vote in the third reading on the proposals made in the draft law according to House press 546 in the following order. Firstly, points A1 and A2 vote as a whole. Second, point B1. If proposal B1 is agreed, proposals B2 to B6 and proposal B12 are unvoted, and amendments under letter D cannot be voted on. Thirdly, the B2 proposal - at the same time, B3 to B6 and B12 must be voted together - in the case of approval, the D1 to D5, D7, D8 and B8 to B11, the E1 and E3 proposals are further unvoting. If neither of the proposals B is adopted, proposals C, D3 to D6 and proposals under E must be voted. Further procedure in the case of the approval of Amendment B1: in this case, the proposal B2, B3, B4, B5, B6 is unvoting. Furthermore, we will vote on the amendment under B7. Next, we'll vote B8. If B8 is accepted, the E1 is unvoting. Furthermore, at the same time, proposals B9 to B11 by one vote, and if these are adopted, is an unvoting proposal E3. In the 12th B12 he becomes unvoting. For the thirteenth time, vote on all legislative technical comments, which are given in italics beyond paragraph B12 in the resolution of the Committee on Health. For the 14th point, C. For the fifteenth point, D becomes unvoting in the adoption of B1. For the 16th point E1, a vote may only be taken if point B8 has not been adopted. For the 17th point E2. The 18th point E3 may be voted only if points B9 to B11 are not adopted. Finally, vote on the bill as a whole. Further procedure in the case of Amendment B2 simultaneously approved with points B3 to B6 and B12 - we will vote on Amendment B7. If this is approved, the E1 proposal shall be unvoting. Next, we will vote on point B8. In addition, points B9 to B11 together with one vote. If approved, points D6 and E3 are non-voting. Furthermore, we will vote on the first to fourth legislative technical comments, which are given in italics beyond paragraph B12 in the resolution of the Committee on Health, the remaining are unvoted. For the next point C. Furthermore, we will vote on point D6, which will only be voted on if points B9 to B11 have not been approved. Points D1 to D5, D7, D8 is unvoting. Points E1 shall be put to the vote only if proposal B7 has not been adopted. Furthermore, point E2, E3, which is only voteable if proposals B9 to B11 have not been adopted. Finally, we will vote on the bill as a whole. Furthermore, the Committee on Budgets adopted opinions on individual amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u63	You will present them, Mr rapporteur, when those proposals are as they will be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u64	Yes. Mr President, I have received another voting procedure proposed by Mr Vilímec. [[- Yes.]] So I'm going to do the same thing as in the first case, I'm going to do the procedure as proposed. We would then vote on individual procedures.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u65	We will be voting on the proposal for a procedure for my colleague Vilímec. If it is not accepted, the guarantee committee procedure will apply. Yes?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u66	So, according to Mr Vilímec's proposal. It proposes, first, to vote on points A1, A2 as a whole. Secondly, it gives a vote on points B2 to B6 and on point B12 - the exclusion of health insurance companies from the obligation to transfer funds to the CNB account. If B2 to B6 and B12 passes, points B1, D1 to D5 and D7 to D8 cannot be voted on. If the B1 through B6 and B12 fail, the vote will be taken on B1. Furthermore, it is no longer possible to vote on amendments under D. B1, which is the exclusion of the obligation to transfer funds to the CNB's health insurance companies when these accounts are created for revenue and expenditure from taxed activities. If neither of the proposals B is adopted, proposals C and E must be voted on. If proposal B1 is approved, then this resolution will follow the procedure of the guarantee committee. In the event that B2 through B6 and B12 will be approved, the procedure... but nevertheless I have lectured because I too am of the same opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u67	This is similar in both proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u68	So at the global, we're continuing to go there based on what I've presented.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u69	Okay. Anyone else have a reminder? My colleague Vilímec, who is the plaintiff of the second procedure. Please specify. You may, Mr. Ambassador, mark it directly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u70	The rapporteur has not read it. In any case, this is a slightly different procedure than proposed by the guarantee committee, if approved by B2 through B6 and B12, the draft procedure is the following: voting on points D6, that is one of those transitional provisions, excluding health insurance companies and leaving the current deadline with the state contribution organisations. In the case of approval D6 it is then unvoting B9 to B11 and E3. If D6 had not then been approved, a further proposal for a transitional provision of the Health Committee B9 to B11 would have been voted on. It would then be voted on the first and fourth legislative technical reminder, which is similar to the guarantee committee, and in the event that neither point D6 has been approved, that is one transitional provision, one version, neither point B9 to B11, so that the third transitional provision, which Mr Vyzula has made, would then be voted on by E3. Then the vote on B7, B8, C, E1 and E2 would be the same as the guarantee committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u71	Thank you for the clarification. Does anyone have a reservation on one or the other procedure? They're alternative. Yes, colleague Hovorka. Is he denouncing anything for a separate vote? Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u72	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, I just wanted to make sure I understood that Mr Vilímec wanted to put the B1 vote on the B2 through B6 vote and so on, but if B1 were approved, the B2 through B7 resolution would... [[No, that's the other way around.]] Oh, so I didn't see it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u73	So we're clear. So first, we are voting on whether there will be an alternative proposal from Mr Vilímec, or there will be a proposal that you have in press no. 546/5. We will decide in the vote number 19, which I have begun. I'm asking who is in favour of the alternative proposal of my colleague Vilímec. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 19, from 172 in favour of 45, against 86, the proposal was not accepted. We will therefore follow the proposal submitted by the Guarantee Committee. I therefore ask now, Mr rapporteur, for individual proposals and opinions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u74	Thank you for the floor. So first, we will vote on A1, A2 as a whole. The Committee on Budgets recommends the approval of these points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u75	Minister, your position on point A1, A2? Okay. [[Agreed.]] The rapporteur wanted to add something else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u76	It is just, if I do not have a slight description of what the amendments are, there are quite a lot of them. I'm sorry, but...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u77	Yes, of course, we'd like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u78	Only briefly - points A1, A2 are the adjustment of the conditions for the continuation of the activities of the contribution organisations in the event of a declaration of accounting loss for the relevant period due to failure to comply with the obligations under the property settlement law with the churches.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u79	Okay. I started voting number 20. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 20, of the 172 present for 168, against 2, the proposal was adopted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u80	We will now vote on proposal B1, which is an alternative to proposal B2. One is keeping an account, the other is removing an account. The recommendation of the Budget Committee on B1 is in agreement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u81	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 21. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 21, from 172 in favour of 123, against 41, the proposal was adopted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u82	So we have an unvoted point B2, B3, B4, B5 and B6. So let's continue with the B7 vote. It's actually the timing of the payments that we talked about here, that means determining the Ministry of Finance, the difference in these terms. The position of the guarantee committee is disapproval.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u83	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 22, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 22, 172, for 73, against 83, the proposal was not adopted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u84	In addition, we will vote on the proposal B8, which concerns that the Ministry is entitled to set the account holders under points 1 to 14 and 16 dates and ranges of the payment scheme and allow its exceptions in the conduct of operations. The position of the guarantee committee is disapproval.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u85	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 23, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 23, from 172, for 1 Member, against 133, has not been accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u86	Furthermore, we will vote on Amendments B9 to B11 with one vote. In the global, this concerns transitional provisions for general health, social, corporate and other associations of health insurance companies. The position of the guarantee committee is disapproval.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u87	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 24. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 24 from 173 Members present for 69, against 84. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u88	Then we should vote - B12 is unvoting. Next, we will vote on legislative technical comments, which are given in italics after paragraph 12 of the resolution of the Committee on Health. The guarantee committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u89	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Okay. I started voting number 25. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 25 of 173 present for 167, against no one. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u90	We will now vote on the amendment under point C. It is the A-head of the ROP, budgetary measures in the budgetary system. I've already justified it here at second reading. The guarantee committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u91	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 26. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 26 of 173 present for 172. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u92	The amendments under letter D are non-voting. Amendment E1 is voteable because it has not been adopted by B8, so we will vote on Amendment E1. E1, yes. [[Objection from the diaper. Apparently, they didn't get the letter E correctly.]] The Ministry shall be entitled to specify to account holders the dates and scope of the payment execution arrangements and to allow its derogations for the execution of payment operations in the accounts referred to in paragraph 3 (h); The amount to be reported in column 010 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. The first sentence of Article 8 and the provisions of specific legislation are without prejudice to this. The opinion of the guarantee committee shall be in agreement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u93	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 27. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 27 of 173 present for 98, against 39. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u94	Furthermore, we will vote on Amendment E2. This is due to the amendment proposed by the extension of the Ministry of Finance's authorisation to provide loans and loans in such a way that this provision applies inter alia. to all account holders with the CNB except for the organizational components of the state and the contribution organizations. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee: recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u95	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 28. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 28 of 173 present for 137, against 2. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u96	Furthermore, we will vote on Amendment E3. This is the distribution of time limits when it takes effect. The guarantee committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u97	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 29. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 29 of 173 present for 131, against 36. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u98	Mr President, I think we have dealt with all the amendments, so I recommend voting on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u99	Are all the proposers of the amendments satisfied that they have been exhausted or declared unvoting? That's right. We can therefore proceed to the vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u100	The guarantee committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u101	I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 218/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules and amending certain related laws, as amended, and certain other laws, pursuant to the House press 546, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." [[Budget rules]] I've started voting number 30, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 30 of the 132 present for 127, against 35. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and end with paragraph 149. We'll continue with the approved agenda, and that's item 150. At the same time, I will hand over the proceedings to the meeting. [[There's a messenger calling for a word. Stanjura and wishes to be a man. Philip stayed at the chair table.]] Okay. Yes, Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u102	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. You were in charge of the vote, and I would ask the legislation to clarify a rather vague matter for me. We voted twice on the same amendment and each time with a different result. Based on what I just checked, the B8 and E1 proposals were exactly the same. The House rejected proposal B8 and I do not think it was possible to vote again on proposal E1. I'm sorry, but in the procedure that the rapporteur said, I was unable to detect it, so I'd like to ask... First of all, I object, and I want it checked out, so that it's perfectly legislative, because I don't think we've done the right thing. In my opinion, we cannot vote twice on the same proposal unless no one challenges the original vote. But that, in my view, was not even a legitimate vote on the law as a whole, because we voted for an amendment that we had rejected in the moment before by another vote, another proposal. The vote on the particular proposal was not called into question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u103	Then I would have to ask the rapporteur, because in that case I consider it important to clarify whether we voted on him or whether he was declared unvoting. I guess that's important. I have that we voted on the B8 because points B2 to B6 have been declared unvoted. We voted on B7; we voted on B8; and B8 was not approved according to my remarks; and E1 was approved if this was the case. The rapporteur first. I understand the two priority rights of the Chairman of TOP 09, but I think the rapporteur is responsible and has priority rights, although I have already completed the point if I am forgiven. It's immediate. The chairman of the ODS Club... [[Messenger. Laudat outside the microphone proposes a short interruption of the meeting for clarification.]] No. First we will hear the rapporteur's position, and then, if necessary, I will interrupt for clarification. [[negotiations]] That needs to be done now. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u104	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. After clarification with legislation, these points are not identical. The full text must be read.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u105	They're not identical. Okay. So may I ask the experts of each club to clarify their position? So, Mr rapporteur, can you still mark the difference between the two points?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u106	Point B8 reads: 6: The Ministry is entitled to determine the account holders in accordance with Section 3 (a). (h) points 1 to 14 and 16 of the terms and scope of the payment execution scheme and allow its derogations for the execution of payment operations in accounts pursuant to Section 3 (b). h). Paragraph 33 (a) shall apply. The first sentence of 8 is not affected by this. The second proposal leaves out "points 1 to 14 and 16" and is as follows: The Ministry is entitled to determine the owners of accounts in accordance with Section 3 letters. (h) the dates and scope of the payment scheme and allow its exemptions for the execution of payment operations in accounts pursuant to Section 3 (a). h). Paragraph 33 (a) shall apply. The first sentence of Article 8 and the provisions of specific legislation are without prejudice to this. There's no "points 1 to 14 and 16. "
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u107	That means there's no listing part to it, so it's a different proposal. Mr. Chairman of the ODS Club, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u108	Thank you for the clarification. Our rapporteur could not speak at this stage, I had to speak. You're right that it's formally different, but it's the same thing in terms of content. I responded to the rapporteur's position because he really couldn't speak at this point. I'll take that under advisement, no offense. I wanted to draw attention to that, to make it clear. Thank you for the clarification.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u109	It was made clear, so I can end point 149. This, too, is important that we do not deal in practice with something that would be difficult to interpret. I'm done with paragraph 149 and handing over the proceedings of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-02-ps2013-042-02-001-149.u110	Good morning, dear colleagues. The next item is:
