ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-024-243.u1	243. Report on the situation in the area of migration and integration of foreigners in the Czech Republic in 2015 /German press 907/ I ask that Minister Richard Brabec, representing Minister Milan Chovanec, and rapporteur of the Security Committee, Mr Zdeněk Bezecný, take the position at the rapporteur's table. We dealt with this House press on 27 October 2016 at the 50th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and the general debate was not open. I would remind you that the Security Committee's resolution was delivered as House Press 907/1. I therefore initiate a general debate in which I register two applications. Mrs Dobešová will be the first to speak and Mr Okamura will be prepared. I wonder if Mrs Dobešová is here to give her her word? He's not present. In that case, Mr Okamura will appear. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-024-243.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, let's look at the complete calculation of the money the government spends on migrants. Sobotka and Babiš and Běládek, for example, paid more than 71 miles last year to so-called non-profit non-state organizations for the permanent integration of migrants into the Czech Republic. CZK and this year only the Ministry of the Interior will pay 21 million to the so-called nonprofits. CZK and only the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs alone 19 million. Crowns. Overall, within the Ministry of the Interior, it is earmarked from the state budget for migrants of a shocking 1.5 billion. Crowns. Sobotkův and Babišův's government spent more than a quarter of a billion crowns on civil servants' wages, operating costs and investment costs in connection with the solution of migration to the Czech Republic. Only the operation of asylum facilities costs Czech taxpayers 100 miles. crowns a year. Sobotkův, Babišův and Bělobrádkův last month, or two months ago, separated more than half a billion crowns from the budget to integrate 6,000 migrants in the next three years. Again at the expense of money for our Czech citizens and against the will of most of us. And I repeat once again that our Movement of Freedom and Direct Democracy - the SPD is the only entity in the House that promotes -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-024-243.u3	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, but I'm gonna ask for some peace in the room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-024-243.u4	And I repeat once again that our Movement of Freedom and Direct Democracy - the SPD is the only entity in the House that promotes zero tolerance for illegal migration. We say clearly, money to our people, not migrants. And, of course, I also reject any penetration of Islam into our Republic and we advocate a referendum on the withdrawal from the European Union. Further information shows that the total number of migrants costs the Czech Republic only in the initial phase of adoption on average 69 thousand. CZK, while the European Union bribes the Czech Government with additional money. The Czech Republic receives a contribution of 6,000 for each individual that has been relocated. EUR, i.e. approximately 162 thousand. CZK, and for each displaced individual 10 thousand. EUR, that means about 270 thousand. Crowns. This is, of course, a completely ridiculous amount, because it is mostly Arab or African Muslim migrants who do not have working habits, do not know anything, we will feed them on social benefits and their presence causes social tension and increased crime. After all, we've already seen this in an attempted rape of a nurse at Na Bulovka Hospital. The costs of integration thus range in billions of crowns per year. Moreover, these migrants will burden the Czech Republic with their inadaptable behaviour for an infinite period of time. We can see this from experience not only from Western Europe. Now, let us take a closer look at what so-called nonprofit organizations are sucking out of the state budget to support the integration of migrants into the Czech Republic most money. They are named as follows: Word 21, Consulting for Integration, Diocesan Charity, INFO - DRÁČEK, Most for Meta - Society for the Opportunities of Young migrants, also nonprofit organizations The Centre for Integration of Foreigners, Centre for Media, Ecology and Integration, Centre for Multicultural Education, Prague Multicultural Centre, InBase, Association for Integration and Migration, Organization for Refugee Assistance, Civil Association Foreigners, SOZE, Club Hanoi and many other so-called nonprofit organizations. [[Places of laughter in the hall.]] I don't know what's so funny about that. [[Even the speaker laughs. Fun in the hall.]] It was written in the report, the Hanoi Club, so... [[- Please continue.]] For example, only the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund for foreigners went almost 50 miles. The Ministry of Education spent CZK 8 million on free teaching adapted to third-country foreigners. Crowns. Absolutely shocking is, for example, that an organization called Integration Counseling has received more than 7 miles. CZK in support of employment and self-employment of women from traditional Muslim communities living in the Czech Republic. What's that supposed to mean? Is this government normal? What is more to add to this government's actions? Again, I will repeat that an organization called Integration Counseling has received more than 7 miles. CZK in support of employment and self-employment of women from traditional Muslim communities living in the Czech Republic. And then we hear here that some kind of Hanoi Club is still getting money to integrate foreigners. So that's how the Sobotka government, Babiš, and Mr. Bělobrádek here act. And in this situation, once again, I say that Sobotkův and Babišův's government have decided to accept more and more foreigners, i.e. migrants, from Arab and African countries this time. It is therefore easy to say, but quite truthfully, that Sobotkův and Babišův's government are directly involved in increasing crime in the Czech Republic and thus act explicitly against the interest of decent and proper citizens, as foreigners in the Czech Republic, and this is the result of this report, participated in the overall crime in our Republic in 2015, 7.4 percent, and this is therefore an increase in the criminal activity of foreigners in our Republic. On the contrary, in the case of citizens of the Czech Republic, the number of persons prosecuted, investigated or convicted last year decreased year-on-year. The above is remarkable from the point of view that only 4.4 percent of foreigners live in the Czech Republic relative to the population. Simply put, foreigners living in the Czech Republic have one such crime rate as the citizens of the Czech Republic and their crime rate is constantly increasing statistically. Last year, more than 8,000 were found in our territory. illegal foreigners, namely 8 563, which is an increase of 56 percent. Of course, we all know that this is just the tip of the iceberg, because the vast majority of foreigners moving in the Czech Republic cannot be detected at all. I am also glad that the report also directly confirms the truthfulness of the political agenda of our Movement of Freedom and Direct Democracy - the SPD, when it is clearly stated in the report that it is actually impossible to integrate such a large number of foreigners from culturally different countries into our society. And the report adds that this leads to the creation of closed communities that are hostile to the European cultural environment. It turns out once again that what I and our SPD movement are promoting in the beginning, i.e. zero tolerance for migration within the current migration wave, and we are also promoting a ban on the promotion of Islamic Sharia law in the territory of the Czech Republic. Sobotkův's government, however, is deaf and blind, continues to accept African and Arab migrants to the Czech Republic. And we are very clear in our movement, and I have already said it here: money to our people, not migrants. But back to the report. Remarkable are other data that once again confirm what I have been saying all along. In Europe, in addition to the citizens of the European Union, the citizens of Syria with a legal residence in an EU country were mostly detained. Interestingly, Sweden's citizens are also at the top of the list of aiding illegal migration, while the police themselves state that according to their names it is possible to conclude on their Arabic origins. It is therefore true that these people are only using the benevolent European system and parasitic on it in order to promote further illegal migration from Arab countries to Europe. [[13.00 hours]] I was very surprised once again when I read in this most recent police report that Sobotkův and Babišův's government - I quote: "It distributes material abroad for preparing potential migrants in the country of origin to raise their awareness. " End of quote. This is really another incredible and I would say the scandalous act of this government. And the next paragraph says that people can find out on the web about various possibilities of financing projects for the integration of foreigners in the Czech Republic. Such negotiations are directly against the interests of most citizens of the Czech Republic. It's an extreme act. I would also like to stop by the information of the BIS, the Security Information Service, which found Muslims in our territory last year sympathizing with the ideas of the Islamic State. Again, it is mentioned in the report. These are Czech converts, i.e. Čech, who have transferred to Islam, and Muslims of the younger generation living in the Czech Republic. In the current report, the Czech Security Information Service evaluates these people living in the territory of the Czech Republic as potential carriers of risks associated with terrorist activity. What can I say in conclusion? Again and again, the need for the promotion of the political agenda of our SPD movement, which quite openly and without political correctness promotes a secure, prosperous, just and sovereign Czech Republic. And, of course, the government's reports here cannot support our SPD movement in any way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-024-243.u5	Thank you. It's 13 o'clock, I'm interrupting this point. Just for the sake of order and some culture of the environment in the Chamber of Deputies, I remind you that, just as I address you, Mr Okamura, I would appreciate it if you did not say Bělobrádek, Sobotka and Babiš, but Mr Vice Prime Minister, Prime Minister or Minister of Finance. Thank you, and I'm interrupting the meeting by the afternoon for an interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-08-ps2013-053-07-024-243.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good afternoon. The next item is
