ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u1	16. Government bill amending Act No. 349/1999 Coll., on the Ombudsman, as amended, and other related laws /house print 379/ - second reading We dealt with this House press on Friday 11 March 2016 at the 42nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when we interrupted the general debate. Minister Jiří Dienstbier and rapporteur of the guarantee committee, Mr Lukáš Pleticha, have already taken the position for the plaintiff at the rapporteur's table. The House's press was also directed to the Committee on Petitions and the rapporteur is Mrs Zuzka Bebarová Rujbrová. So we will now continue the interrupted general debate. Mrs Dobešová has applied for the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u2	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, I would like to continue the debate that was interrupted a few weeks ago on the extension of the Ombudsman's powers. I submit in advance that I am not too inclined to extend powers and concentrate powers in one person, and I would like to support this view of some of the arguments that are from my previous practice. [[17.50 hours]] I am sure you know that I work in the OSCE, the OSCE, and I am also commuting to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Unfortunately, I met in all these institutions during the negotiations and came across the report by our Mrs Ombudswoman on the rights of migrants in the year when the migration wave was culminating in the Czech Republic and when Mrs Ombudswoman very strongly criticised the conditions in the detention facility Bělá-Jezová. I realise that the Ombudsman is primarily responsible for Parliament and should report to it regularly, but unfortunately, not at one meeting of the Committee on Petitions, which I am a member of, we did not deal with a report that would assess the conditions of refugees in any of our facilities, but at European level I was given absolutely accurate information about how refugees have bad conditions in these facilities. A few weeks ago, I was even at the meeting of the monitoring committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where I was supposed to comment on a report under the coalition that was prepared for the Parliamentary Assembly, which was intended to monitor the situation in various areas in the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, this report again quotes the Ombudsman, who strongly criticizes the conditions in detention facilities. I am very concerned about this because I think that we can also have a critical opinion in the position of the Ombudsman on the behaviour of either the government parties or the coalition, but I still think that we should deal with these things on the ground of the Czech Government or on the ground of the Czech Parliament and not on the ground of Europe. You yourselves know that there are camps such as Calais, such as those in Idomeni, where there are certainly not exactly good conditions for migrants, but no one can solve this at any European level because no Ombudsman from the Member States has issued such a report. I would therefore like to ask you to really consider whether you will support the extension of the Ombudsman's rights. While I understand that what I have said here has nothing to do with the bill, I wanted to prove it because I think it is very important who is carrying out this function. If one of the predecessors of the current Mrs. Public Protector of Rights were to do so, I do not think that we would have thought to question this, but since some of her steps are really out of line with normal decency and normal logic of things, I would like to draw attention to that here, at Parliament's level. It is up to you whether or not you will support the extension of the Ombudsman's rights, but I think you should know this information in your decision-making. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u3	Thank you, ma'am. The next is Mr Okamura, who apologized from today's meeting, so his application is forfeit. I'd like to see Mrs. Hnyková's mike. And before the word comes up, I'll load two apologies. From 18 o'clock to the end of today's day, for personal reasons, Mrs Matušovská and Mr Vojtěch Adam apologizes from 18 o'clock today for health reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was here during the last discussion of this law presenting our amendments relating to the Ombudsman's work. The aim of these amendments is to extend the scope of the Ombudsman's controls to the application of Sharia law. Such checks should be carried out in particular in facilities for the provision of aliens and shelter centres for asylum seekers, where the Ombudsman should deal with the application of this religious legal system that limits human rights. The present Paragraph 1 (1) (b) is replaced by the following: 3 says that the protector carries out visits to designated places in order to strengthen protection against torture, cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment. We also complement these objectives with protection against the application of Sharia law. I was really raised here by the words of Minister Dienstbier, who laughed at the bill during the last discussion of this law. In his opinion, Sharia had nothing to do with torture, cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment, but I could not respond because the President had arrived, so I took the liberty now. Minister Dienstbier, through Madam President, do you not know what he said about the Sharia of the Strasbourg Court of Human Rights? He clearly said that Sharia's law is incompatible with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, due to its rules of criminal law, the non-recognition of equality between men and women and interference in private and public life on the basis of religious regulations. If you, as Minister of Human Rights, ignore the judgment of the Court of Human Rights on the legality of any ideology and seek to protect Sharia's Islamic law, it is simply scandalous. Don't you know that stoning, hand cutting, death sentences for apostasy from faith or marriage to minors are part of Sharia's right? Putting Sharia's right in the same paragraph, where torture, cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment is, on the contrary, right, because all these things belong to the same bag. Thank you for allowing me to comment on the Minister's report, which was last expressed in the last meeting, and I could not comment on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u5	Thank you. And now, please, with Prime Minister Dienstbier's priority right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u6	Mrs Hnyková, unfortunately, it is not my fault that you are not only unable to read the legal text, but you cannot even listen to what I have said here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u7	Minister, I apologize, but you must address the lady of the house with me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u8	Madam Vice-President, I am not a Member, I am a Member of the Government, I can go directly under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u9	No, you can't. It is the other way around, because Members can directly at you, but you can't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u10	Okay. All right, through the Vice-President. You didn't listen to me here. I explained that if you could read the legal text, you would understand that your proposal says that Sharia is not the application of cruel, inhuman or tortured treatment, because it already contains the provision that you propose to supplement. In other words, you're adding another fact to the Ombudsman's view. You're saying that the other fact is not the application of this cruel, inhuman and further treatment. So you said Sharia wasn't like that, not me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u11	Thank you. And now, please, to Mr. Soukup's microphone. With priority rights, Mr. Mr. Černoch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u12	Thank you for the floor. Minister, you say that my colleague Mrs Hnyková should learn the text, you should learn the Rules of Procedure. It's not about the text, it's about the substance and the fact, because the extension of powers is in a different direction than we would like those powers to be extended. This is not an extension of powers, it is only that the Ombudsman should ensure that this right does not apply. That's the essence of what we designed or what the colleague just said. So what you're saying and what you're arguing isn't true. That's not true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u13	Thank you, and now, please, to Mr Soukup's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken on this subject several times, but I still meet people who ask me what my amendment actually contains, and it is quite extensive. Furthermore, since I've basically talked about it for the last time, it's been a while, so I don't think it's gonna hurt me to repeat some things. First of all, I propose that we dismiss the guardian's right to make proposals to the Constitutional Court. I justified it essentially by the fact that such authorisation in those countries where we should take an example, that is, in England, that is, in Sweden, where this institute was created in 1802, they have basically no such thing. I'd like to give you one more figure, actually. It is basically - the Ombudsman or anyone has this option when he is given the opportunity or when he receives the support of at least 41 Members or 17 Senators. I think that this is a sufficient opportunity and access to essentially the Ombudsman's exercise of his right to speak up in some way. Furthermore, the release of the Ombudsmen to act in legal proceedings and anti-discrimination matters. That means the public suit. That is what I said, and I repeat that, except for Slovakia, I suspect it is not in any other state. Mr. Dienstbier - not by your means, I can address him directly - said he had some other knowledge, perhaps he would then entrust us with his experience and knowledge of where else they accepted it. It is further mentioned in point 3 - the retention of the duty of the protector to show a serious public interest in bringing the action. This means, in the fourth paragraph of Article 5, in point 1, the word "found' shall be replaced by the word "confirmed'. I would like to draw particular attention to that. Furthermore, point 4 of the waiver of the right to protect against employers and other private individuals. I also justified this because it basically means my proposal, that we should go back to the original essence of why the Ombudsman actually came into existence in Sweden around 1802, which means that it was such protection from the wills or bad decisions of the government and the administration. I would like to say in this context that I think so, and I am convinced that the Ombudsman is essentially strong enough in our country and does not need to be strengthened. The protection of human rights, as I had some material processed by the Parliamentary Institute, I would say that the large states have mostly a coordinating body located near the Prime Minister, and it is headed by the so-called Lower Minister. That's, say, Germany or the UK. In our country we see that we have a strong Ombudsman and also a relatively strong minister. In other large states, they have a special government body for human rights, such as France, Poland, Spain, Italy, and they don't - basically, this body is run by someone under the authority of either the government or by an official. There is basically no coordinating body in the smaller states, including the Czech Republic. Individual human rights are placed under the jurisdiction of the ordinary ministries, in some cases those human rights powers are highlighted by the exercise by a relatively separate authority within the supervisory powers of the ministerial authority - Sweden or Finland. To sum up and not go on - basically somewhere they have either a strong Ombudsman or a strong minister. That's mostly in the biggest states. We have a strong and growing minister here, and we have a strong one, and according to the idea of a strong Ombudsman. Somehow, in our little state, the authorities are kind of swelling up. So that's probably why I proposed the amendment. He is basically part of the resolution - or, for the most part, part of the resolution - of the constitutionally-legal committee, which I very much consider. However, it doesn't include all those points, for example, there isn't that point 3. And I think it's worth thinking about, even basically, that point 3 or that paragraph 3 should be adjusted in some way. That is why I will not only rely on the fact that this is contained in the resolution of the Constitutional Legal Committee, but I will put the amendment in full and ask you for its support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u15	Thank you. And now, with Mrs Hnyková in fact. You have your word, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u16	Thank you, Madam President. I'd put my colleagues and colleagues in the picture. So here I quote exactly where we want to put our amendment, because it seemed like I didn't understand this thing after the Minister's speech, but I'm gonna let you quote it. Point 3: The Protector conducts systematic visits to places where persons restricted to freedom by public authority or as a result of dependent care provided to strengthen the protection of such persons from torture, cruel, inhuman, degrading treatment, punishment and other mistreatment, or - and this is our proposal - or to strengthen protection against the consequences of the application of Sharia law. And then in point 4, we add point (d) where we say: other places where there is systematic human rights violations due to the application of Sharia law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u17	Thank you. I have Mrs. Bebarová Rujbrová on file. I just want to ask if it's an application for a debate or whether it's factual. . In the debate, I ask you to stand by because I have Mr Hovorka's factual application. [[Mrs Bebar Rujbrová outside the microphone says that until the debate]] And, Mr. Ambassador, is this going to be factual with you? [[The President addresses Mr Schwarzenbergr]] Then you'll be second in line after Mr. Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador. [[Mr Hovorka prefers Mr Schwarzenberg.]] We would prefer Mr Schwarzenberg. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u18	The Ombudsman's institution came to us from Scandinavian countries, where democracy works best, we generally recognise. There is a known rule of Power corrupts - Lord Acton established it - absolute power corrupts absolutes. Each power seduces to abuse, whether it be political, official, or economic power. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why he must always be stoned to the heel of the mighty, whether it be the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman. It is the most important democratic insurance that exists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u19	Thank you. And now, please, to Mr. Hovorka's microphone. Mr Soukup and then Mr Stupčuk will be ready. All factual points. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u20	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say that the ombudsman's powers, as they have been set up so far, are sufficient and, in the sense of what a number of previous speakers have said, I do not consider extending these powers to be useful and beneficial to our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u21	Thank you. And now, please, to Mr Soukup's microphone, Mr Stupčuk will be ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u22	I'd like to be more specific. I am addressing Mr Schwarzenberg through you, Madam President. Yes, you're right, it's a very useful institution. However, in Sweden, the Ombudsman basically does not have the powers required for our current Ombudsman. In that Sweden his authority, or rather his performance rests with all the strength of his personality essentially. [[18.10 hours]] I, not only did I, but the debate also took place on the Constitutional Legal Committee, but most of all it bothers me that basically our Ombudsman is not responsible at all to anyone. He was somehow elected by the Chamber of Deputies and does not answer to anyone. Otherwise, the Ombudsmen basically in all states, even the lower Ombudsmen, we know that there are regional Ombudsmen in Italy, in some states there are Ombudsmen for the military, the Ombudsmen for migration, the Ombudsmen for the railroad, so the Ombudsmen basically always have a responsibility or they give their suggestions to the institution that chose them, which set them up. I miss this in my country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u23	Thank you. Mr Stupčuk's microphone, please. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u24	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues, I think it is definitely important for this debate that we are aware of why the Ombudsman's institute was set up. Indeed, the point is that he is to serve as a kind of protection for citizens against the power of executives. And so that individual citizens do not have to undergo often complex administrative procedures where they can find remedies, the authority of the Ombudsman is supposed to act here to point out the wrong decision or maladministration of the authorities of executive power, especially administrative ones, and force them to correct their wrong decision within the framework of the authoremedura. However, if we were to extend the ombudsman's mandate by so much discussed authority so that he could file complaints to the Constitutional Court about the abolition of laws, then there is also a complete deviation from constitutional law, because in such a case he will be able to revise the legislative process. And if we look at who is entitled to file constitutional complaints, we will find that these are the very subjects who are involved in the legislative process of the Constitution. And it has its inner logic. The Ombudsman is not involved in the legislative process. Even for this reason, he could not have that competence. Finally, I note that our constitutional protection of the rights of both human and civil is based on the protection of the judicial system. Any court may, when examining an individual request, stay the proceedings and refer the law applied to it for its conflict with the Constitutional Court in order to be assessed. So the focus of protection is really in judicial power, and in this sense, the Ombudsman should not subpoena the judicial protection of rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u25	Thank you. Now, please, to the microphone of Mrs Rujbrová Rujbr. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u26	Good afternoon. Colleagues and colleagues, are you watching detective stories? I'm sure you read black chronicles in the paper, you follow the stories of murder and rape, you follow the criminal trials as well as our public, and you take for granted that not only does the criminal trial involve a representative of the state that brings the lawsuit, that is, a prosecutor, but also a defense attorney, even though we may not always be able to put ourselves in his skin. But he's there to investigate whether guilt is really proven to point out extenuating circumstances and see if there's anything good about the killer after all. And the Ombudsman has a similar position with us. I also remember the time when the law was established here. I remember when he passed through the great resistance of the right. But then, and it was probably in Dr Motejl's personality, we began to trust him more. His role is immeasurable. People have learned, and this also comes from the reports that the House receives regularly, to turn to the Ombudsman's Office. Today, we take these thousands of corrected shortcomings in government bodies, which have been corrected in a quiet way precisely because the Ombudsman has pointed out these deficiencies as a matter of course. We don't take for granted any more when it somehow steps on our feet. I'd like to warn you about personification here. Like Dr Motejl, there has been an increase in the budget chapter to the powers that have not yet been legalized in the law, so we have become accustomed to Dr Šabatová's unpopular comments for, for example, viewing us in the world as regards the refugee agenda, as they look at us, and in a number of cases we disagree with her. On the other hand - and again I recommend to those who do not do this regularly as members of the Committee on Petitions, to read the Ombudsman's reports, which the House receives and which everyone has at your disposal. Among other things, you will find that more than half of the legislative initiatives made by the Office of the Chamber of Ombudsmen, respectively. The government is administered and subsequently filled. So even here, I would see the role as quite significant. I, too, was wondering if the Ombudsman had had had enough of those powers with us. But if I compare the trend that is in Europe, I don't think our ombud would be the one with powers that aren't elsewhere. And Mr Stupčuk opposes to a certain extent. Yes, to review, to seek justice, we have judgments. But by not allowing the Ombudsmen to turn to the Constitutional Court, to some extent we also show distrust of the Constitutional Court. I'd be a little careful here. It has avoided personification and I recommend that we think once again about what the bill really contains and how it differs from what is elsewhere in a civilised Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u27	Thank you. I beg you, Mr Stupčuk, in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u28	After all, I am trying to find an answer to where legitimacy is for the Ombudsman to have an active legitimacy to proceed with Parliament's bills to the Constitutional Court to assess their constitutionality. And I'd like it explained to me. That's what I don't understand. Because if I look at this in the context of the Constitution and the State Science, on the one hand, I have a two-chamber Parliament, a government, a president. All of these entities are involved in the legislative process, and it is natural that, as its participants, they can file a constitutional complaint in order to establish the Constitutional Court's right to act as a negative legislator and to break the law. That makes sense. In addition, the constitutional protection of the rights they exercise primarily in the Czech Republic, even against the legislative power, is based on the interpretation of the laws they adopt and can find them contrary to the Constitution. This is the essence of the protection of rights under the Czech rule of law and it is quite sufficient and correct that any general court in the application of any law in a specific case of one or more citizens or persons may conclude in the case under consideration that the law applied to the particular case is contrary to the Constitution, and can and should in that case suspend the proceedings and refer this law to the Constitutional Court for assessment of constitutionality. That's the core of protection. I see no reason why the Ombudsman should have this authority at this time and to make it equal to a group of Members, a group of senators, to the government as a whole. Basically, he would be placed on the same footing as the President of the Republic, who himself can - but he is once again involved in the legislative process because he completes it with his signature of the bill. So where's the proportionality? [[Your time.]] And if we build individual actors like that, I don't see the inner logic and legitimacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u29	Thank you. Now, please, with Mr Soukup's de facto opinion. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u30	I'll do it one last time. I would like to address my previous speaker through you, Mrs Rujbrová. She basically said, she talked about it - don't be angry, Mrs. Rujbrová, but you contradicted yourself. She was talking about there were thousands of times that the Ombudsman helped and without authority. So you can see that the power of that authority has somehow worked. That's basically one thing. And then I want to follow up on another one, the claim that the Ombudsman needs some kind of right to turn himself to the Constitutional Court. The laws we accept, so here we accept, 200 people decide about them, 150 people in the Senate decide about them, then the president signs it. And based on one... We see how the President can hand it over to the Constitutional Court himself, he has the authority. Why should the Ombudsman, someone else, as Mr Stupčuk said through you, have the authority to turn himself directly? I think the insurance policy, the 41 Members and the 17 Senators, who, if this is a really important thing, when the insurance policy basically -- it's called that -- I'm not a lawyer, but it's called a legal policy or a legal filter -- when something like that exists there, it's perfectly logical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u31	I thank and ask if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate and starting a detailed debate. [[Minister Dienstbier off the microphone.]] Excuse me? There is not yet a final word, there is yet a detailed debate, Minister, to read any amendments. I therefore initiate a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Now, please, to Mr. Soukup's microphone... Mr. Schwarzenberg? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u32	Many believe that the abuse of power occurs only in the executive sector, but the 20th century has shown us that even in the legislative process crimes can be committed. Not only stupid laws, but also criminal laws have passed many parliaments. I had a great teacher, Karel Popper, and he always taught me that the quality of democracy does not depend on the highest degree of democratism that is being voted on, but on the existence of check balances, so that power is always balanced. Those check-balances are the most important thing for a functioning democracy. This includes the institution of the Ombudsman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u33	I thank you, and now, please, to Mr Soukup's microphone, Mr Pleticha will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u34	I have already justified my amendment, now I would have justified it for the third time, so there is only one thing left for me - to sign up for it. It's listed under number 2301.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u35	Thank you. I will ask Mr Pleticha's microphone and then Mr Sklenák with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am applying to my amendment in the system under number 3538. I have already justified it at the previous meeting in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u37	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Mr Sklenák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u38	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to quote § 66 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies: 'After the end of the debate, the President shall give the final word to the appellant and the rapporteur'. So when the minister applied for the final word, of course he should have gotten it. But he's a tolerance himself, so he'll definitely have his say after a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u39	I'm progressing, of course. I understand that, but I have a situation in the Presidency - maybe there's been a mistake, I'm sorry, but after a detailed debate, I'm sure there'll be room for a final word, Mr. Ambassador. I'm gonna get Mrs. Adamová's mike now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u40	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to sign up for my amendments, which are recorded under House documents Nos 2551 and 2552 in the system and were justified in the discussion of this point last time at second reading, so I did not speak to it anymore. You can definitely find all the details there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u41	Yes, thank you. Please get to Mrs. Hnyková's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u42	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for my amendment, which is in the system under the number 4149 and which, in Article I, after point 2, inserts the following point 2a: In Section 1, the following is added at the end of paragraph 9 - I will now quote: "and must give priority to hygiene and health and safety regulations at work over religious rules for clothing'. This amendment responds to the case when the Ombudsman criticised the decision of the Central Health School in Prague 10, which did not allow a student from Somalia to wear the so-called school. The hijab, with which Muslim women cover their hair, their neck and sometimes their breasts. This time, the public defender of rights concluded that the school was indirectly discriminated against by the student because, on the basis of a neutral school code, she banned her from wearing a Muslim scarf, which is an expression of her religious beliefs on the outside. I completely disagree with this procedure, on the contrary, I think that the headmaster of the school should have the right to determine these matters, especially as in this case regarding compliance with hygiene rules. Therefore, we propose to put in the law provisions that, if the protector interferes with the activities of offices and facilities, he must prioritize hygiene and health and safety regulations at work against religious rules for clothing. The basic requirement to adjust the exterior of pupils and students should be that they do not interfere with teaching and are not at risk from the point of view of hygiene or injury. I refuse to allow religious symbols to be privileged in any way. The same rules must apply to all. It is in the health sector that hygiene is of the utmost importance and cannot be made subject to any condition. If anyone wants to be a nurse or a doctor, they must accept that this brings certain requirements. We are in Central Europe, the Czech Republic, and we certainly do not have a theocratic state here. That is why I want us all to act accordingly and not follow a religion that is foreign to us. Thank you for your attention. And yet, Madam President, I would like to ask you - I am once more logged in there, but this concerns this. I'm so sorry, because it came from the last meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u43	Yes, thank you, and now, please, to Mrs. Maxová's microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u44	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to sign up for the amendment under number 2808, which I have put into the system and which concerns the possible appeal of the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman, because at the moment, I consider this or this part of the appeal to be insufficient, because the law does not remember the situation here, for example. The protector or protector could not perform their duties because of ill health. In the same way, the law passes away the possibility of withdrawing the protector in the event that he commits serious misconduct in the performance of his duties, which, of course, means that he is guilty of breach of the duty of the protector or of acts that threatens trust in the role of protector, or reduces the seriousness of that function. [[18.30 hours]] I think that the amendment does not give Parliament an obligation, but merely extends the possibility to health reasons and serious misconduct, it is therefore not included in the present paragraph 3, which regulates the appeal of the protector, but is amended in a completely new paragraph. The reason for this is that, contrary to paragraph 3, according to which the Chamber of Deputies is obliged to withdraw the protector from his duties, in the case of a new paragraph 4, it will depend on its discretion whether or not to proceed to such a step. Of course, this would require the approval of an absolute majority of Members present. I would also like to emphasise and reiterate that the amendment reflects the provisions on the appeal of the European Ombudsman and also inspires Slovak regulation, or, for example, in Sweden, Parliament is entitled to waive the position of an Ombudsman who has lost Parliament's trust. The laws of France and Belgium allow the Ombudsman to be removed from office for serious misconduct or for serious reasons. So it is nothing unusual in European law. Furthermore, I would like to say that if we might question the phrase of serious misconduct, it is a very common term in our legal order. We will also find serious misconduct in the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament, Article 21, where, of course, it can also be removed. I would like to ask for the support of my amendment under number 2808. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u45	Thank you, Madame. Now, please, to Mr Bend's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u46	Madam Vice-President, gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will also be brief, I think I have performed well at second reading. I would just like to propose that part three, the amendment of the Act on the Constitutional Court as amended by the Constitutional Legal Committee, that is to say the fourth part, now the third part, where the power remained to submit proposals to the Constitutional Court after the hearing in the Committee on Petitions of the Chamber of Deputies. I think that this power is also useless, and I suggest that this part be released. I think I will also agree with some other proposals that will come out of the diaper here, but just in case, I wanted this proposal to be available here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u47	Thank you. And now, please, to Mrs Havlová's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u48	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, honourable Members of the Government, I would like to make an official application for an amendment under the number of House document 3544. There has already been a debate on these proposals in the general debate last time, and I would just like to summarise them briefly. The proposal is divided into three points. The aim of the first point of the proposal is to protect the places under the Ombudsman's jurisdiction from the application of Islamic Sharia law. According to the law, these are places where persons restricted to freedom are located and places where persons dependent on care is provided. Checking whether Sharia law is being exercised should be carried out, for example, in children's homes or in prisons, but above all, and this is more fundamental, in facilities for securing foreigners in shelter centres for asylum seekers. This is where the risk of spreading is highest. Under point two, the same protection against Sharia law will also be granted to schools where similar protection is equally important. And the third point of the amendment concerns the role of the protector to monitor the provision of aliens and the execution of legal expulsions. It is clear that the immigration crisis cannot, for objective reasons, be achieved by always achieving defined standards. According to our amendment, the Ombudsman's assessment must take into account the objective situation caused by the immigration crisis. So it will not only be able to criticize headlessly, but it will have to take into account that, for example, the number of immigrants has increased sharply and the Czech Republic does not immediately have sufficient capacity and provisional measures are being applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u49	Thank you. And now, please, to the microphone... Mr Soukup withdraws his application, I only ask that he load it on the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u50	I must apologize, the inexperience of the early Member still. I basically applied twice, so I'm downloading my application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u51	So I'm gonna erase you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for a detailed debate. It's not like that. I therefore now propose to the Minister the final word if he is interested in it. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u52	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. In addition to the fact that I am pleased to have received it this time after the debate, I would like to clarify one more uncertainty about the Rules of Procedure. There was talk of ignorance of the Rules of Procedure. I think that Members should know him first. I quote § 59 para. 3, which says that the Member does not directly address other Members in the debate and asks any questions to them through the President. It is only a rule that applies between Members. About this. And now for the bill itself. The bill contains two important areas. One is the opportunity of the Ombudsman to address the Constitutional Court with a proposal to abolish the laws if he concludes that the issue he is dealing with is part of the problems and contradiction of the applied law with the Constitution. The second area concerns the Ombudsman's ability to bring an anti-discrimination action in the public interest. Both of these powers, which we propose to entrust to the Ombudsman, are based on a government statement. The question of the Constitutional Court is expressly set out there. As far as protection against discrimination is concerned, it is generally said that the government will support the extension of the means of protection against discrimination. I have already mentioned here, of course, we have other options, for example, to entrust such powers to legal persons who have protection against discrimination as a subject of activity. I suppose this would be a more controversial option than the one proposed in this law. The Committee's deliberations, whether on petition or constitutional law, resulted in support of a third power, and this is the introduction of a monitoring mechanism in relation to the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities under the UN Convention of the same name in principle. I think it's quite a match. I have also said that it was a power which was originally proposed in the legislative process at the government level that it fell at the last moment only because it was a contradiction with the Ministry of Finance on the tables in the Ombudsman's Office, but essentially after the government's meeting, where for this reason this power was not included there, this contradiction was overcome. Therefore, it is actually quite in agreement that it is proposed to supplement this power. I would now like to make a more detailed statement on the various matters. I would therefore begin with the opportunity of the Ombudsman to address the Constitutional Court with a proposal to abolish laws for a conflict with constitutional order. Mr Stupčuk here asked questions about the legitimacy of such a power when, in fact, those involved in the legislative process, in principle, a group of Members, senators, the President of the Republic, have the power to do so. It's not just them, it's also a single judge or senate court that applies the law and concludes that the law he should apply is against the Constitution. And, of course, any citizen who passes through the entire judicial process until finally he has exhausted all his options and filed a constitutional complaint and links with it a motion to abolish the law or its part for conflict with the Constitution due to the application of the law or its provisions in his case. So it is not only those involved in the legislative process. [[18.40 hours]] Here I would mention, however, that the legitimacy of such powers of the Ombudsman in relation to sub-laws can also be imposed - as there is a group of Members, as there is a group of senators and in quotation marks the Ombudsman himself. For comparison, this is essentially a completely identical situation, only in this case, in accordance with the government's statement, the government is proposing an extension to the laws as well. I've already said here that it's more like an analogy to the possibility of a trial, virtually. a judge or a senate, to propose an annulment of the law in an application in a matter which he decides, because it is an analogy of exactly what is being proposed here, if, in any matter which the Ombudsman is investigating, he concludes that there is a link, then he proposes the possibility of turning to the Constitutional Court. Moreover, it is still a very well-accepted proposal which was discussed and supported by the Constitutional Legal Committee that it would do so even after it comes to the Committee on Petitions and discusses the matter there, because, of course, it opens up room for the matter to be resolved in a way other than filing to the Constitutional Court. For example, MEPs themselves can take advantage of their legislative initiatives and deal with such a matter, which is obviously a less conflicting way of dealing, or they can even sound arguments as to what other solutions are needed in terms of the constitutional application of some contested provision of the law if there are more possible interpretations available, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's case law, that, if there is constitutionally conformal interpretation, there is no reason to abolish the law or part of it. So I think that, as it is proposed, let's say, a compromise or part-limiting proposal from the constitutional law committee, this can strengthen the protection of the rights of citizens of the Czech Republic. And I think it should be our common interest. I do not really understand why there is such opposition to this possibility of the Ombudsman. I would point out one more thing. Basic principles are maintained, according to which the Ombudsman works in the sense that the Ombudsman himself does not decide anything. He always only suggests, recommends and is up to the addressee to what extent or how he will deal with it. This principle does not change even in this case, because the Ombudsman does not have to decide whether the law is contrary to the Constitution. He can file a motion to the Constitutional Court and it will naturally be the Constitutional Court that decides whether or not there is a reason to abolish the law or some part of it. Even in this case, the Ombudsman is not supposed to decide anything according to the Government's bill. He's just suggesting someone else decides. In principle, as in all other cases where the Ombudsman's powers or powers are conferred. Then there is a second very important power or possibility, and that is to file an anti-discrimination lawsuit in the public interest. I've already made that argument here again. It's not an easy thing to do. Protection against discrimination or action against discriminatory conduct belongs to very complex types of legal case, requires qualified legal assistance. The people against whom discriminatory conduct is applied are very often those who do not have the means, often have lower social competences, they are simply weaker persons, which is why they are victims of discrimination. In this case, an action in the public interest may be a very effective means, because it will help not only one personally but generally defined group of persons who can face the same type of discriminatory behaviour. It will also allow judicial case-law to be developed in the area of discriminatory conduct, which is, to a sufficient extent, extremely lacking, and thus prevent such action in the future. So it also has a preventive function, that kind of authority of the Ombudsman. Indeed, statistics show that although the surveys and analyses that are being carried out show that very often there is discriminatory conduct, there is an absolutely minimal amount of anti-discrimination lawsuits. That's why it's mine. There is no case-law. As I was saying, these are very complicated legal disputes, they require qualified legal aid, and it is precisely the victims of discrimination that are not receiving it. Here's their chance that their rights will finally be protected. And I think that protecting the rights of citizens of the Czech Republic, and I would even say especially those weaker, who are unable to obtain their own resources now, should once again be our common interest. I would now like to comment on some of the amendments that have been made here. I think it is clear from this that I will not support it because it would be me. even contrary to the government statement, and so I cannot proceed, releasing any of the two main areas that are part of the government proposal, i.e. the possibility of recourse to the Constitutional Court or anti-discrimination lawsuits. However, I would support Mr Pleticha's proposal, which concerns an anti-discrimination action, because his proposal for an anti-discrimination action binds precisely with some specific activity of the Ombudsman under the law, and if he comes to the conclusion that discriminatory conduct is taking place there, he could, and only then, bring the action. This means, it is not that he thinks that somewhere there might be discrimination in something he has nothing to do with in his work, he will put it there, but it must once again have a link to the Ombudsman's work, which I think is rational. This was essentially meant to be the case, and it will become quite obvious from Mr Pleticha's proposal if it were to be approved. Personally, I would not suspect the Ombudsman and his office to have this ambition completely out of action on specific matters. As for Mrs Maxová's proposal, which extends the possibility of the Ombudsman's appeal by the Chamber of Deputies, I can imagine that if it were otherwise formulated, we could talk about health reasons if there were a longer period of time. In other laws, a period of six, nine months is used. Six months, for example, in the Act on the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, which I will also be talking about here in this context. Three months are relatively short periods from the point of view of disability, it can quite commonly happen, and there is a discussion possible. What is completely unacceptable to me and what threatens the independence of the Ombudsman according to the principles of Paris, which have already been mentioned here in the debate, is the second part of the proposal, where the House's almost-popular will be allowed to decide whether or not to call off the Ombudsman. Mrs Maxová quoted the principles of Paris here, but one of those principles has somehow left out - that part of independence is also the principle that the member of the institution or the person who performs the office is appointed for a specified term, i.e. for a certain period of time. It also means, according to these principles, that it is not easy to recant, that it should be guaranteed at that time, which is what guarantees her independence. And here I am going back to the Act on the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes. There was also a motion filed for its annulment at the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court annulled actually two words which meant that the Senate could withdraw a member of the Board of the Institute in the event that it did not exercise its functions properly. And the Constitutional Court has stated precisely that this is a violation of the principle of independence, because it actually allows for free consideration when to appeal and when not to withdraw. This, I think, would be a fundamental threat to the principle of independence, which we should hold quite clearly to the Ombudsman's office, and it would be a denial of everything, and it would not actually meet the conditions of an independent institution that should monitor in relation to the rights of persons with disabilities. [[18.50 hours]] So much for me at this point. I will not comment on the other proposals at this time. I think I've commented on the essentials. I hope that this law will be supported at third reading with the maintenance of those key powers, albeit with some modification according to proposals from committees and here at second reading, so that we can fulfil the intention to improve the protection of human rights in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-014-016.u53	Thank you. I ask the rapporteur whether he is interested in the final word. It's not like that. I therefore conclude the second reading of this proposal and just recall that Mr Karamazov has tabled a motion for rejection and we will not vote on this until the third reading. I'm done discussing this point. We will now proceed to the discussion of the point.
