ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-009-036.u1	36. Government draft law on the collection of selected data for the purpose of monitoring and management of public finances / House printing 746/ - first reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Before taking the floor, I will ask Mr Roman Procházka to take the floor at the rapporteur's table because he is the rapporteur for first reading. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-009-036.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am presenting to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic a government bill on the collection of selected data for the purposes of monitoring and management of public finances. It is a government bill of a lesser extent, but it is essential in terms of fulfilling the obligations of membership of the European Union. It is intended not only to complete the transposition and implementation process of Council Directive 2011/85/EU of 8 November 2011 on requirements for the budgetary frameworks of the Member States, but also to follow up directly with the Act on the rules of budgetary responsibility. Its planned effectiveness is from 1 January 2017. However, it must not be earlier than the said Act on the rules on budgetary responsibility, which is currently being discussed here at second reading in the context of the general debate. It is necessary to submit that other legislative options in the form of amendments to some existing legislation or to an unapproved draft law on budgetary liability rules have been considered, but in terms of transparency and consistency of legislation with the purpose in question, flexibility as well as the need to lay down as quickly as possible the relevant obligation for entities whose economic data the Ministry of Finance does not have, the variant of a completely new law and implementing decree has been chosen as optimal, in the absence of any legal codification in the field of public finances in the Czech Republic. Only in this way will personal competence be clearly defined and obligations, including penalty mechanisms, be laid down. Other variants would mean a great fragmentation or non-systemicity of the relevant legislation across the Czech legal order. The main purpose of the bill is therefore to obtain economic data from the remaining entities of the general government sector. It is a very heterogeneous group of persons, from which the Ministry of Finance, according to the applicable legal order, does not yet receive any data, or is completely insufficient for the purpose of fulfilling the obligations of membership of the European Union. These are the following entities: Czech Export Bank, Czech Television, Czech Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank, Czech Radio, Export Guarantee and Insurance Company, Financial Market Guarantee System, Support Guaranteed peasant and forestry fund, Railway Infrastructure Administration, Public Schools, Centrally Controlled Public Research Institutions, Hospitals set up by a regional self-governing body with a legal form other than a contribution organisation and, in the future, urban public transport companies and other 15 smaller units. In the light of the proper fulfilment of the requirements of Council Directive 2011/85/EU as well as in the light of full compatibility with EU law, it is necessary that the scope of the addressees of this proposed legislation is in no way reduced or otherwise modified. The addresses of the proposed legislation will provide information on their income and expenditure in a simple breakdown, which will allow, inter alia, consolidation of aggregated output data. Central government must report data on a monthly basis according to the Directive. To limit the excessive administrative burden, it is agreed with the European Commission that small units will have a quarterly reporting obligation, as will local government. [[18.00 hours]] Furthermore, from the point of view of the rule of law system, accounting legislation has been transferred to the draft law on government guarantees - it applies to state funds, local authorities, voluntary associations of municipalities and regional councils of cohesion regions and public-private partnerships projects, it applies to the organisational units of the State, state funds, local authorities, voluntary associations of municipalities, contribution organisations, public universities and centrally managed public research institutions. The proposed law will be implemented by decree of the Ministry of Finance, which will adjust the specific structure of the submitted data. Her preliminary work proposal, including annexes, was inserted into the material for information only. Of course, this sub-legal legislation will be covered by a separate legislative process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-009-036.u3	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrea Babiš for his opening words. I will ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Roman Procházka to present his report. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-009-036.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government's draft law on the collection of selected data for the purpose of monitoring and management of public finances implements the EU Council Directive 2011/85/EU of 8 November 2011 on requirements for budgetary frameworks of Member States. The Directive lays down detailed rules on the characteristics of the budgetary frameworks of the Member States. Those rules are necessary to ensure compliance with the obligations of the Member States under the TFEU with regard to avoiding excessive government deficits. The deadline for transposition of the directive expired on 31 December 2013 and the Czech Republic was notified by the European Commission in January 2014 of the deadline for transposition of the directive. The directive has already been partly implemented through applicable and effective legislation in three areas - in the area of budgetary, for the organisational components of the State, state funds, municipalities, regions and others through financial statements, in the field of accounting for state contribution organisations and for other selected entities subject to Decree No. 410/2009 Coll., and in the field of health insurance activities. In order to fully fulfil the objectives of the directive, there remains an area which relates to the publication of fiscal data pursuant to Article 3 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) a directive where it is said that Member States will ensure that the public has timely and regular access to fiscal data for all sectors of the general government sector, as defined by Regulation (EC) No 1828/2006. 2243/96. In order to publish comprehensive fiscal data according to the requirement of the directive, it is also necessary to provide input data from some other entities, to whom the current legislation in the Czech Republic does not command, and if so, it is quite inadequate. The legislation will also apply to all contribution organisations of central government organisations, public universities, public research institutions and public hospitals. From the position of the House rapporteur, I recommend the Government's proposal for a law on the collection of selected data for the purpose of monitoring and management of public finances for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-009-036.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate. I'm saying I don't have an application, but I see... And now I have to ask - with priority rights, Mr. Chairman? [[Members of Stanjure.]] Because your party colleague Vilímec is reporting. [[Member Stanjura prefers Member Vilímc.]] Okay, so in the order you signed up. Mr Vladislav Vilímec, then Mr Stanjura, is the first enrollment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-009-036.u6	Mr Vice-President, this is not an amendment to laws, but it is actually a new law, which is submitted on the basis of the current Council Directive on requirements for the budgetary frameworks of the Member States. The Minister of Finance has covered himself here with the Act on Rules of Budget Responsibility, but I have a feeling that it is definitely on the ice, because I do not see that this law is being debated at all. So covering up laws that aren't even approved yet, and they won't be approved anytime soon, seems a little strange to me. Although this government bill is primarily the nature of the technical standard, it brings certain effects not only on the designated public limited liability companies and state enterprises, but also brings effects to self-government, especially to the level of some of their established companies or commercial companies. [[Noise in the hall.]] Firstly, this draft law requires the authorities to send further statements, annual data on public-private partnerships and guarantees provided through the central accounting information system of the State. I remember five, four years ago--
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-009-036.u7	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment and ask the House for some peace. Please, if you are discussing other problems, it is in the foyer so that we can hear the speech of the Member who has been given the floor. [[It's okay, same noise.]] And I'm serious about both sides of the Chamber of Deputies... Really, my colleagues, my colleague... [[The O.R.'s down.]] I'm asking for peace... There. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-009-036.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I remember years ago a rather difficult debate on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, but also within the Ministry of Finance, I note the obligation to fill out and send from the authorities the so-called. PAPY. I don't know if the Minister knows what we're talking about. They're so-called. auxiliary analytical surveys. Eurostat also requested these data. Later it was possible to remove at least the municipalities from this obligation to 3 thousand. population. I could have convinced myself that filling in these ancillary analytical surveys despite functioning software was not easy and brought a relatively large administrative burden to municipalities, especially accounting and financial unions. I'm kind of wondering if anyone at the Treasury Department is working on that data at all. I have a feeling you're not. But it's legal, and it has to be filled out. This time, there are two more statements in this law, probably not so administratively demanding, but instead of reducing the administration, we are constantly increasing it. Minister, let's make this simple. Such laws are always protected by a requirement of the European Union, by directives. But when I looked at the directive, so-called. There are different ways to implement it. However, this law also provides, in this case, the obligation to send quarterly data on income and expenditure from certain companies established or owned by local authorities that provide health services - even those companies are listed in the explanatory memorandum or in the annex - or operate local public transport. Again, the explanatory memorandum refers to Eurostat's demands, but it even admits that we do not even know whether the local public transport authorities will require this yet, but the draft law already envisages this, even if the explanatory report states that their exhaustive list is currently unknown. The petitioner admits that in these cases it will have an impact on business entities. How big, however, we will not know from the explanatory report. In the case of business companies, at least from practice, as I know it, the problem is often that their accounting and reporting do not correspond entirely to the statements completed by municipalities, regions and other public institutions that are required by the Ministry of Finance. Interestingly, the State has abandoned sending these statements from the social security fund, where they belong, for example. health insurance companies, too, because of their efforts, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, to minimise their administrative burden. However, in hospitals owned by the region, it is the other way around. And I have to say that hospitals have hospitals like St. Anne's Hospital in Pilsen County, Plana, it's a follow-up hospital, a very small hospital - I don't know how this will affect the state's overall management. [[18.10 hours]] I also looked at the comments made. Some regions were heard - Pardubice and others, Vysočina also. Unfortunately, according to the wording of the bill, some comments or most of those comments were not reflected. This applies, for example, to deadlines for reporting by regional or municipal companies. The counties also requested to reduce certain sanctions in conjunction with administrative offences. For example, and it is quite incredible, in the event of the failure to submit a statement on public-private partnership projects, this also applies to voluntary associations of municipalities, the competent body may be sanctioned up to CZK 100,000. In any case, I will not propose a rejection, of course, of the bill, but in any case, it is appropriate that the proposal is not merely considered a technical standard, but also that it be considered as a proposal that raises the administration, bureaucracy at the level of not only, of course, the state administration, but also at the level of self-government. Therefore, it is appropriate to submit this proposal to a very responsible analysis and discussion on the adequacy of the new requirements. Since it actually raises some administrative costs again and it is a question of whether, above all, smaller companies will only increase those requirements because I really do not see any significant effect on public finance management. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-009-036.u9	I thank Mr Vilímc. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Herbert Pavera. But before that, two apologies: Mrs Golasowská from 18.15 and Mr Gabal from 18 a.m. to the end of the day. Mr Pavera, with a factual point, then with priority rights, the President of the ODS Club. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-009-036.u10	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, have a nice evening. I just want to follow up on my colleague Vilímca and confirm that the bureaucracy that has fallen on the municipalities in recent years is incredible. And if there are other questionnaires and reports that we will have to submit, it will mean an increase in the number of employees for self-government. We are a community that has less than 4,500 inhabitants, we had to accept other accountants to manage a helpful analytical survey, which I think sucks, I'm going to say it politely, because I think the officials made it up to have some work to do. Because absolutely when someone gets double data, similar data, it can't have anything specific. Moreover, it is only for municipalities over 3,000 inhabitants, so it does not have an overview of the situation in the whole Czech Republic. So I'm really interrogating you to finally, people who are dealing with something about self-government, think about it and stop making up all the reports and responsibilities for self-government, because it's too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-009-036.u11	Thank you, Mr Herbert Paver, for keeping time on the point of fact. And now, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura for a proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-009-036.u12	Thank you for the floor. I basically have one question. If we really think that Czech Television and Czech Radio belong to the general government. He's not state yet, he's not government yet, I have big doubts. This is certainly a matter that we will want to debate in committees, and we will want to know the views of the members of the government coalition as well, whether in the statement that is so general in the bill, then the institutions are actually listed only in the explanatory memorandum. For those who certainly belong to the state, we have no doubt, we see no problem. At the same time, I would like to know the position of universities, because they should probably also be based on the proposal monthly, if I understood correctly, to provide other forms, other reports, other data. And if we recognize the independence of public universities again, I don't know what that's good for. Again, it's something we're going to want to debate on committees. With the state institutions, no doubt, I don't think we'd even need the law. I can't imagine marrying the Export Bank when the Treasury Secretary tells me they wouldn't give him the data. So let's consider whether, where we can enforce it fairly simply, whether or not we need the law to do so, so that someone who exercises property rights should provide the management with regular information that should be given by the person representing the state, in this case the Ministry of Finance. I agree with my colleagues that there is no reason to vote on rejection at first reading, but I would like us not to take this completely mechanically. Look, those underlined sentences, if we trust the officials, they're the ones we have to have there. We added all the others ourselves. But at the same time, the main argument for adopting this law is that Brusel wants us to do so. The text of the bill does not fully answer that, in my opinion, when the words, sentences and paragraphs that we added ourselves are useless.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-009-036.u13	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. That was the last one entered into the debate. I'm asking if anyone else is applying. This is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Rapporteur? It's not like that. Then we can continue. We will deal with the motion for a commandment, because there has not been a motion for repayment or rejection, at least I have not noticed it in the debate. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. We'll decide on the vote, and I'll sign you off first. I'll run the gong to summon those I refer to discussing in the foyer. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Once the number of entries is settled, we will decide on the commandment of the Committee to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. And that's in the 224, which I just started. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 224, from 114 for 114. I note that this proposal has been approved, it has been ordered to the Guarantee Committee, the Budget Committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion on the commandment of the next committee to discuss? It's not like that. We therefore have nothing to vote on. I note that this proposal has been directed to the Committee on Budgets as a committee of guarantee, and I can end the first reading of this proposal, i.e. paragraph 36, printing 746. I thank the Minister, I thank the rapporteur. The Minister remains in his place. The next item is point number
