ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-004-189.u1	189. Government bill amending Act No. 360/1992 Coll., on the pursuit of the profession of authorized architects and on the pursuit of the profession of authorized engineers and technicians active in construction, as amended /house print 597/ - third reading I ask that the rapporteur's seat be taken by the Minister for Regional Development Karla Šlechtová, rapporteur for the Guarantee Committee, Mr Jiří Petrů. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 597/2, which was delivered to you on 8 September 2016. The guarantee committee didn't discuss the bill. I am now asking the plaintiff if she is interested in speaking - and the Minister is. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-004-189.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to mention the third reading of the bill amending Act No.360/1992 Coll., on the pursuit of the profession of authorized architects and on the pursuit of the profession of authorized engineers and technicians active in construction, submitted by the Ministry of Local Development. The content of this amendment to the Act of Authorization is to clarify legislation, adapt the current market situation and to the changing needs of the two chambers which this Act establishes. Also, the settlement of the legal situation where the literal interpretation is broken down with the purpose and purpose of the adjustment. The proposed amendment has no impact on state and public budgets, on local authorities or on the environment. The proposed changes affect natural and legal persons as business entities. I am very positive about the effects on these subjects. During the meeting of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, where the amendment to the Act of Authorization was awarded at its first reading, an amendment was tabled by Mr Petr, whose subject is the legislative technical regulation, which responds to the adoption of Act No. 126/2016 Coll., which also amends this authorization law, as well as the date of entry into force. The amendment was supported by the members of the Committee and incorporated into the 213th resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I agree with these amendments. As part of the second reading, an amendment was tabled by Mr Oklešťek, the subject of which is the creation of the Czech Chamber of Surveyors and at the same time the amendment of the Trade Business Act and the amendment of the Law on Land Measurement. Similar proposals have already been tabled, in the context of the whole bill, both in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, where the proposal was also submitted by Mr Petrů, who subsequently withdrew it after a detailed debate and also the explanation of the representatives of the Ministry for Regional Development. Before this proposal was also applied in inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, it was discussed at the level of the Ministry for Regional Development and authors of this idea, but in incomplete wording, without an assessment of the impacts of regulation and also without discussing the proposal with the resorts. I cannot agree with this proposal and we do not accept this comment. The proposed amendment, which is part of this amendment, proposes that for the real estate cadastrals, state map works, survey activities for state defence needs and engineering geodesy be part of this law. However, only the field of engineering geodesy is relevant to this law, the remaining fields are not related to the authorization law. The proposal entitles authorized persons to perform selected activities. However, the selected construction activities defined by the construction law do not specify the survey activity at all, so the adoption of this proposal would be contrary to the construction law, which now also lies here in the House as a proposal for an amendment. Given the number of people who would also be affected by the new regulation, I see the establishment of a separate chamber of surveyors as non-conceptual, inefficient and also from a legislative technical point of view very difficult. We also spoke with the Czech Chamber of Authorized Engineers to have fun with the authors of the design of the formation of this chamber. The Czech Chamber of Architects offered this chamber to form under the wings of the Czech Chamber of Authorized Engineers. However, surveyor... The authors of this idea rejected this, they want a separate chamber. For these reasons, I cannot agree with Mr Oklešťek's proposal. At this point, I would like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to accept this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-004-189.u3	Please don't threaten the ministers. Thank you. Thank you, Minister. I am opening the debate, which was the first to which the rapporteur, Mr Petrů, came forward. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-004-189.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Public Administration Committee expressed its opinion on this press by the Committee's resolution of 7 June this year, which is all available to you under number 597/1. As regards the amendment tabled at second reading by Mr Ladislav Oklešťek, it should be said that this amendment can also be seen as an adhesive. It would therefore be appropriate to address the problem of the survey chamber in a separate law, as is the case in Slovakia. At present, surveyors have official authority under Act No.200/1994 Coll., on Land surveying, for the following fields: it is a cadastral of real estate, state map works, engineering geodesy and surveying activities for state defence purposes. [[13.30 hours]] According to the proposed amendment, amendment point number 8, members of the Czech Chamber of Surveyors would be authorized under Act No. 360/1992 Coll. for fields: the land register - not related to construction activities, state maps - not related to construction activities, engineering geodesy - related to construction activities, and then land surveying activities for state defence purposes - not related to construction activities. In fact, the roofing of the activities carried out by survey engineers by the authorisation law would therefore only be taken into account in the verification of the results of the survey activities for construction. Exam so far at the Czech office of survey and cadastral according to Act No. 200/1994 Coll., on Land surveying, would be recognized according to the amendment as a test for the field of land cadastrals, state map works and a test composed at the Ministry of Defence according to Decree No. 81/2014 Sb. it would be recognised under the amendment as a test for survey activities for the needs of defence of the State. According to the proposed amendment, in the case of the formation of the Czech Chamber of Surveyors, the applicant for authorization should have the right to pass all tests at the Czech Chamber of Surveyors. [[Big noise in the hall.]] The amendment also includes a proposal to amend the Law on Land surveying, which leaves the possibility of profiting the official authorization of the Czech Republic. Similarly, the possibility of obtaining an authorisation granted by the Ministry of Defence and subject to an examination pursuant to Decree No. 81/2014 Sb. The current situation in the event of adoption of the amendment would be confusing. Moreover, given the number of persons affected by the new regulation, the establishment of a separate chamber is inefficient, inefficient, and from a legislative technical point of view is very difficult. Two. According to the proposed amendment to the authorisation in the relevant field, it entitles selected activities to be carried out under construction and professional activities. The selected activities are defined by the Construction Act in Section 158 and are the project activities in the construction and professional management of the implementation of the construction or its changes. The survey activities selected by the construction activities are not. The adoption of the amendment would result in a change in the construction law, which was not dealt with by the Czech Ministry of Regional Development. The construction law is not listed as a change law in Part III Amendment and addition of some laws. Three. The amendment tabled in the transitional provisions states that the newly created chamber will register all persons who are entitled to carry out survey activities from the Czech Republic or the Ministry of Defence in the list of authorized persons and their existing authorizations will cease to exist by this registration. The amendment does not address the form of registration as to whether it will be carried out at the request of the holder of the approval or by the power of the chamber. The transitional provisions of the amendment state that the existing authorisation expires within six months of the entry into force of the law or registration into the Czech Chamber of Surveyors. The proposal disproportionately interferes with the rights of authorised surveying engineers, removes their acquired permissions and makes their activities subject to the entry into the Czech Chamber of Surveyors. In addition, the authorisation of survey engineers is often granted for several fields simultaneously. This fact is not addressed by the proposal. The amending proposal does not take into account the proposed amendment to the Law on Land surveying existing authorisations and thus changes the scope of their activities for holders of existing authorisations. It should also be noted that the amendments concerning the implementation of the profession of authorized surveyors into the amendment of the Act on authorized architects and authorized engineers and technicians active in construction were discussed by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development on 7 June 2016, with the fact that he had not found support either in the committee or in the petitioner. However, my colleague Okleštěk, on the amendment to the Act on Authorized Architects, Engineers and Technicians under construction, applied for the implementation of the profession of authorized surveyors in the amendment to the Act on Authorized Architects, Engineers and Technicians under construction at second reading on 7 September. For this reason, I also declare that the Committee on Public Administration has expressed its opinion on the amendment and, therefore, has not repeatedly addressed this amendment. Then I'll load the procedure for the next procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-004-189.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. Another duly signed up for the debate is Mr Ladislav Okleštěk. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-004-189.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, fellow Members, I would like to ask you to allow me to withdraw my amendment under number 4853, which I have put into system 7. 9. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-004-189.u7	Thank you. I am registering this proposal by the Member and we will vote on it. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. If no one is reporting, I am ending the debate and I am asking for the final words of the Minister, perhaps. the rapporteur. Not interested. We will proceed to the vote on the amendments. I ask the rapporteur now to introduce us to the voting procedure, to present the various amendments and to give us the opinion of the committee. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-004-189.u8	Thank you, Mr President. With this procedure, Mr Oklešťek has made the situation much easier. I propose that the Chamber of Deputies vote in the third reading on the draft bill in the following order. Firstly, to vote on the withdrawal of the amendments made in the Houses of the Press 597/2 under the heading. B. Secondly, vote on any proposals for legislative technical amendments under Section 95 (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies if they are tabled in the debate at third reading. Thirdly, vote together with one vote on Amendments A1, A2 and A3. Finally, vote on the law as a whole. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-004-189.u9	Thank you. So, before we approve the draft procedure, we will vote on the proposal to withdraw Mr Ladislav Oklešťek. There's a check-out request. I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. The number of people present has settled, and I am opening the vote on the withdrawal of Mr Oklešťek's amendment. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 304 vote, 140 Members and Members, for 137, against none. The motion to withdraw has been accepted. Then we will vote on the draft procedure, as the rapporteur has put it. Initiating vote on the draft procedure. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 305 vote, 143 Members and Members signed up, for 142, against none. The motion was accepted. Mr. Rapporteur, please. [[Positive.]] No, I'm sorry. We have now voted on the procedure, and I ask that you present the various amendments to the procedure, give us an opinion on them, and I will put them to a vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-004-189.u10	Mr President, I am sorry. I have said that we will vote together with one vote on Amendments A1, A2 and A3 and then on the Act as a whole. [[From the dime question to the opinion.]] I have a positive opinion on the joint vote. I've already said it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-09-ps2013-050-09-004-189.u11	Great. So we will vote on A1, A2 and A3 together with one vote. The position of the guarantee committee? [[Positive.]] Madam Secretary? [[Positive.]] Initiating vote on Amendments A1, A2 and A3. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 306 vote, 146 Members and Members signed up, for 142, against none. The motion was accepted. This has dealt with all the amendments. Isn't that right? [[The rapporteur agrees.]] We will therefore proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 360/1992 Coll., on the pursuit of the profession of authorized architects and on the pursuit of the profession of authorized engineers and technicians active in construction, as amended, House press 597, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." The position of the guarantee committee? [[Positive.]] Madam Secretary's position? [[Positive.]] I have begun the vote on the bill as a whole. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It is vote 307, registered 146 Members and Members, for 132, against none. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. [[13.40 hours]] Then we have our apologies. Mr Martin Sedlář apologizes on 11. 11th for family reasons. Mr Lukáš Pleticha apologizes today from 14.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek apologizes today and tomorrow for work reasons. Mr Josef Hájek apologizes on 11. 11. for reasons of foreign travel. And Mr. Jiří Štětina has been apologizing since 10. 11 to 29. 11th for medical reasons. The next item is:
