ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u1	1. Government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2017 /German press 921/ - first reading This item is interrupted in the general debate and I will ask both the Minister and the rapporteur to take the position at the rapporteur's table. I hereby open a suspended general debate. I note Mr Urban's factual remark. Ambassador Urban, I'm registering a point of fact. No, you're not reporting for a debate. Okay. Mr Opálka will now appear and Mr Vilímec will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u2	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, fellow ministers. What do I consider necessary to emphasise in advance? That a large part of society expected this government to cope gradually, but more strongly, with the antisocial effects of the policies of previous right-wing governments. However, the government's actions in this area are sometimes merely symbolic, for example, in the case of slow wage growth, sometimes even exceed toughening, for example, with amendments relating to parental leave or the third pillar of the pension system, but most of the time there is not much to be done in this area, although the Prime Minister expressed a different opinion in the speech. We still have more or less equal taxation of natural and legal persons and a disadvantage for the state to transfer money abroad, i.e. low-taxed dividends and speculative in-house prices. The number of those using tax havens is growing. The Czech National Bank continues to coagulate the koruna exchange rate etc. These and other examples confirm the vacuuming of a small part of the newly created value in the Czech Republic into foreign and thus smaller revenues into the state budget. Legislative changes are often coalically racked, as we often hear, especially because of the harsh attitude YES. The first Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance act naturally as an entrepreneur and employer, and de facto is in conflict of interest, since every maintenance of the previous right-wing solution, or even a slight shift, saves even his pocket and makes more profit. But his presentation of himself as a protector against waste and, at the same time, as the only righteous person who has a hard time doing so in the government and in Parliament, still has an effective effect on the public. You have to admit that without envy. Neither does the antisocial and conflicting attitudes and turnovers of 180 degrees, and then the defence of the original position and the complaint against the pressure of coalition partners. The question is: how much longer will this policy be successful with voters? [[14.40 hours]] I add that I am personally rooting for all the steps of the government that lead to the elimination of the grey and black economy and corruption, and I want to believe that this neglected area is flashing for better times. But the truth remains to be seen. Now a few comments on the budgetary policy and the new state budget law presented from my perspective as a member of the Social Committee, i.e. from a bit of the state budget's guts in the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but not just there. Often a unilaterally criticised wage increase in the state, but also in the public sector, and the growth of minimum wages and tariffs, which affects wage growth in the business environment as well, but ultimately, pension growth is the only promising way to move economic growth even further, increase consumption and finally get closer to statistically developed countries. But we are not close to the developed countries by these henly steps that are being taken by the current government coalition. Employers often complain about a high percentage of contributions to insurance premiums, but they conceal that these are percentages of low basics. The total combined labour costs in the Czech Republic are long-term at the level of 30 to 50 percent of developed countries, where additional benefits are used far more and the state participates more significantly in multi-source financing, for example pensions. Over the past quarter-century, we have not been much closer to the remuneration of employees, but also to the productivity of the developed economies. And that was talk, remember? Employers are strongly protesting today because they do not want to share their profits more fairly with their employees and the state. But higher citizens' incomes mean higher sales turnovers and higher production of producers, i.e. their growth. This will allow the country to finally raise its accumulated margins, as sound inflation is beneficial and necessary. Finally, this redirection saves the state to pay social benefits. It is not normal for an employee to have to balance his household consumption with the support of the state thanks to his low income. His family must be secured by his work and by a sufficient wage or salary or reward for a small businessman. But is it true that everyone wants low taxes, out of which exceptions, deductions, and then what is the State supposed to take on these generated social benefits? We must assume that the workforce, the employee, is worth as much as the raw materials or energy. Otherwise, because of the abuse of labour price variability, we are perverting and creating constant social dumping at the expense of our citizens' incomes and the state budget. From this point of view, I believe that it is reasonable, given the current situation on the labour market, to make more use of money for active employment policy. We have over 378 thousand registered unemployed and of that army about 150 thousand long-term unemployed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u3	I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, for entering into your speech, but I will ask you, colleagues, to keep your voice down. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u4	Thank you. We should successfully activate this army of long-term unemployed people. The Prime Minister spoke of this in his performance. The number of unregistered people is also small and goes into early retirement every year to around 30,000 people who reduce unemployment at the expense of the pension account. They don't pay dues, but they're already pumping. On the other hand, however, the fundamental need for higher expenditure on passive employment policy should not be expected next year. No one's assuming a crisis. But the budget is set the other way around, which doesn't sound logical to me. There are also understandable pressures to assess the living and existential minimum after five years, benefits that, through a coefficient, also affect the growth of other social welfare benefits or benefits in material distress. Here I must say that the scissors must be more open between the minimum wage and the minimum life rate. I agree with the government on that. But leaving social benefits at the same nominal level in the long term, because wages are rising slowly, means that the real value of these social benefits is falling and the number of people affected by income poverty and at risk of social exclusion is increasing. And I don't think that's our goal. Or is it? While budgeted growth in pension spending, thanks to the government's debt of valorisation, ensures that the nominal ratio of average income to average wage is maintained above 40 per cent, the growth in real pension value is slowing down. Vice-President Vojtěch Filip also spoke of this. I add that we have completely resigned to two-speed valorisation, i.e. to balance pensions with old-timers, especially those with the lowest pensions. [[unintelligible]] In the case of sickness insurance, it is evident that income would also cover the increase in sickness benefits in long-term patients, but this is not signalled by the government's paragrafo text of the bill and thus uses surplus - and it is not small - for other purposes as well as in recent years. I believe that we should address more strongly, in particular, the cessation of real trade in poverty, especially housing costs. There is a lot of money running away that we could use, for example, for the benefit of disabled and disadvantaged people. In three years, the government coalition has not, in principle, come to a satisfactory solution, costing the state budget considerable spending and meeting business speculators, not socially needed. Such milking of the state budget by private individuals is a demonstration of unwillingness or inability to resolve the problem radically and quickly. And the social housing law is out of sight. I am also thinking about increasing the cost of foster care, especially in foster care for a transitional period. Where are the promises, where was one of the main arguments that change would come in cheaper state? But that's for a different discussion. Finally, I have kept the long-term problem of social services that we may need once. We've shifted decision-making processes to regional levels, but we're still splitting the money from the center. I don't think that's bad. However, large and long-term tensions at the level of municipalities did not affect this in any way. The establishment of these services in the past mostly on the basis of a non-profit sector creates a problem with its regular and sufficient funding. Needs are growing, capacity is growing, but budget money is not growing in proportion, which often leads to an unchosen competition for grants or grants between associations. Budgetary organisations are disproportionately better off. It is no exception that the associations address their needs in the first quarter by a carry-over commercial loan for which they do not have cover other than cover by their own natural person. But we're okay with that. I wish you could experience the trauma some of the leaders of these societies are experiencing. There are further problems with the certainty of maintaining the service, respectively. security of money for services over a longer period of time, because we do not actually know the money from year to year, what it will be, especially after long-term sustainability. Money for wages is missing, etc. etc. [[14.50 hours]] This is a long-term unsolved but sensitive, yet system problem, which, according to my forecast, will soon be seen as a time bomb if it is not resolved responsibly in budgetary and legislative terms. However, I must add fairly that on the other hand, there are providers who are able to walk in this and are successful in doing business in this sector, because they have the necessary links and free money. I therefore warn and ask that the government reconsider this problem and look for ways to remedy and increase budgetary resources and the necessary legislative adjustments. I do not know whether a major amendment to the Social Services Act will solve this problem. I conclude that the Committee on Social Policy will also hear these appeals and adopt the necessary resolutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u5	Thank you. Another duly signed up is Mr Vilímec and Mr Dolejš will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u6	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, one of the most important laws for the functioning of the state, municipalities and regions, at least for next year, has arrived in the House, is once again on the table and here is a peaceful atmosphere compared to how I have always seen budget discussions in recent years. I wouldn't be surprised if the draft budget had a balanced management or at least a slight deficit of up to 30 billion. But the government and the minister have submitted a budget to the House, which counts on a 60-billion-dollar deficit. We have learned a lot of data from the Minister here, after all, most of the data is from the explanatory report, but no matter how I listened, I have not heard the reasons why the Minister is presenting such a budget deficit, 60 billion, if at least at the moment it looks like it, or it will probably be that the budget will end this year with a surplus. After all, to 20. 10. - the Minister will certainly have even more current data - the cashier's performance of this year is 83,226 billion. plus. I don't know what's gonna happen next year if we get hit by some kind of economic crisis. Nor is the prediction that is part of or the basis for establishing the budget. I do not want to discuss this year and I do not want to debate here how much the failure of some departments to use budgeted funds effectively at this year's development, i.e. the existence of air locks in drawing up the expenditure of the relevant budget chapters last year, or whether it is actually due to the economic development, or - as the Minister likes to say - the positive effect of some measures in terms of state budget revenue, measures which I consider to be rather bullying in many cases. When I look at VAT collection at least this year, or at least those figures that are the basis for drawing up the draft budget for next year, rather than this year's approved budget inputs for VAT, lower implementation is expected. Although I believe that the main influence of this year is mainly the bloated spending of chapters and the development of the economy, I do not really have the ambition to analyse it any more closely. This will be a task for the final account, which is mostly approved only with minimal media interest, and perhaps above all a task for economic analysts. Yet, and I think it is also necessary to emphasise here, the significant difference between the budget that was approved last year, with the 70-billion-dollar deficit, and the fact, too, shows something. It does not quite testify to any responsibility, diligence and perhaps expertise in the establishment of the budget this year. Looking at this year's figures and knowing that in the next year, roughly the same economic growth of 2.4 percent is actually forecasted, perhaps every judge in this country would expect a draft state budget somewhere at the level of a balanced budget, or at least a deficit budget. But the situation is different. The Minister and, by extension, the Government submit a draft budget with a deficit of 60 billion to the Chamber of Deputies. Either further increases in current spending in the next year, in the year of the parliamentary elections, will indeed dramatically deteriorate the fiscal balance, or the Minister of Finance and, in turn, the government are making the budget just a sort of list of numbers they already know in advance that they have no bearing on real developments. Then we really do not need to approve the budget at all. I do not know how the council of any municipality or region would react, in which the YES will also have its quite significant representation if the Governor or his economic deputy with such a budget came to the council. I don't know. I think they'd ask the bad guys. When I imagine how many thousands of parties have that budget, including individual chapters, it really is a waste of people's work, time and other costs. I don't know if the Minister would tolerate that kind of behavior in his companies. I don't think so. When I look at the revenue side of the budget - I do not want to fully discuss it here, because many figures have already fallen here - the Minister obviously expects a lot from EET in the next two years, electronic sales records, from the development of income taxes on natural persons selected on the basis of confessions, from the fact 1.3 billion. In 2015 up to CZK 8 billion. in 2018 in this development, and this is only the share of the state without the motivational component, which the Minister had cancelled from 1 January, i.e. not another share of municipalities and regions. If you recall the debate, Minister and honourable colleagues, which we had here about a year ago at the amendment to the Act on budgetary determination of taxes, it fell from the mouth at the time, now I do not mean the Minister directly, but in committees, in budget and others, that the collection of this tax is actually reduced, that it is actually disadvantageous for the municipalities. I remember Mr. Senator Martínek speaking here, who pushed through the proposal. When we look at what the Minister assumes, he assumes completely different numbers. On those figures, if the budget forecast for 2017 for this tax, collected on the basis of the tax return, is fulfilled, it is evident that at that time it was a mistake that the 30 percent motivation had been abolished and that the municipalities were essentially deceived. There are three prints here. One is the proposal of the Liberec Region, the other of the Pardubice Region, one is the proposal of the Civic Democratic Party. But okay, you know that it won't be able to discuss this by January 1st, which means that the municipalities will come by quite decent money, much bigger than forecasted at the time. When I look at the expenditure side of the budget, the actual capital expenditures that both the Minister and Mr Kalousek have mentioned in addition to European and national expenditures are 103.7 billion. Kč. In 2012, this was also the case when the economy was in crisis, actually had a more or less negative economic development, so the reality was 113,6 billion. Kč. So it is not really possible to enchant in the fact that this budget increases investment. He just doesn't raise them. I do not want to evaluate last year or 2015 in this sense, but it also does not seem completely normal to me when the capital expenditure - you can all look at it - was 132 percent higher than the budget that was approved at that time. I know that in 2015, the last time it was possible to draw funds from the European Union, that it was more or less a reimbursement of expenditure that had already been used in many cases in the previous years. But I'm asking if it's normal when it's 132 percent in one year, i.e. 100 billion. more than the state budget at the time. I'm talking, Minister, about 2015. It's not normal. [[15.00 hours]] Of course, there is much attention in these expenditures to be given to mandatory expenses. This has also been discussed here again. The share of mandatorial expenditure in total expenditure - and here I want to be objective - is down by 1.2%, but compared to 2007, when you look, the share is up by 2.6 percentage points. In fact, quasi-mandatory expenditures have also increased significantly, such as salaries and wages in the organizational components of the state and contribution organisations. And actually, for the first time, when you look at those numbers, for the first time, including insurance, those salaries are over 200 billion. CZK, which is almost 1/6 of revenue. I do not want to refer to spending because there is still a 60-billion-dollar deficit, but almost 1/6 of the revenue of the entire budget. I don't want to repeat what has already been said here. The government plans to increase the number of employees next year by 7 637 jobs. Yes, there are also 900 people who will manage projects co-financed by the European Union. Yet, during the current government, there was actually an extremely high increase in jobs of around 31,300 seats. I am so worried that the government has no concept whatsoever on the limit of a reasonable number of employees. The Ministry of Finance assumes another 607 seats. We are actually in a situation where it is actually best to sit in a warm place in the state administration, best protected by the service law. But the Minister should be aware, and I think we all realize that the state is not a company, it does not earn, but it merely redistributes the funds it chooses from the citizens. Indeed, small, medium-sized entrepreneurs and large entrepreneurs, people employed in the private sector, are making a great deal of money in the running of the state. It merely allows us to distribute these funds from the collected taxes. With regard to the budget - and now I would also like to draw attention to a very dangerous trend where the decision to spend state money is slowly and gradually eviscerated by the elected Parliament - Prime Minister Sobotka has spoken here. He greatly commended the government's own decision to increase pensions by a maximum of 2.7 percent. He thanked the Chamber of Deputies. You may recall the debate we had here when I was right. At the time I said yes, if this is approved, the government will surely proceed to increase pensions by 2.7 percent. It's done. Now, I'm not questioning the fact that the pensions have gone up, but I've pointed out that it's better not to put any limit there, because once the limit is up, the government decides to fill that limit. So it's filled, 2.7 percent, it's 10,400 miles. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is not here, but at that time she was enchanted by the fact that the government may be more responsible or certainly more responsible than the Chamber of Deputies, than Parliament, and that, at times when the government was authorized to do so, even without the limit, she did so only exceptionally in about two cases some ten fifteen years ago. And what was the reality? After it was approved, after a few months, the government made maximum use of the authorisation. And I'm not questioning it. The 308 crowns... If you look at the numbers, and Mr Opálka also spoke about it, the average old-age pension to gross wages is reduced by 0.4 per cent despite the increase. I am not concerned with the increase itself, but I am concerned with the way in which the government acts, the way it completely goes around Parliament. And it's not the only case, we can take government bonds, etc. We need to realise that, at the end of the parliamentary term, Parliament will have much less competence than at its beginning. The draft budget is actually a similar example. The Chamber of Deputies wants it to nod its budget with an extraordinarily large deficit, for which I have therefore not found a reason. The minister didn't tell me. He was merely talking about a compromise between the coalition government. The Minister has argued several times - I don't mean today, but in the media - that he basically doesn't care so much about budget numbers, the real implementation is crucial. At the end of my performance, I'd like to get back to one thing. You know, last week, the government coalition went over the Bill on Rules of Budget Responsibility. Despite serious doubts as to whether, in particular, in relation to local authorities, it is possible to intervene in their rights in such a way by ordinary law without constitutional authority. When I really looked at them, because part of the budgetary responsibility was not only the law itself, but also the amendments to the follow-up laws, when I looked at them, I found that one of the laws was also the regulation of the law on budgetary rules of territorial budgets, which, according to that text, was very little connected with the so-called. budget responsibilities. On the contrary, the amendment of the budgetary rules of territorial budgets, as approved, if the Senate does not bring it back, requires everyone, including the slightest draft budgetary measures, to publish it on an official record for at least 15 days before they are discussed. For the number of budgetary measures to be implemented e.g. I fear that there will be a complete paralysis of the activities of those regions. And I say it very seriously, because I care how the regions or municipalities will deal with it. And I'm putting it in the context of how the state is implementing budgetary measures. Under the authority of the Government, the Minister implements budgetary measures within a limit. I did not notice that 15 days before the budget measure the proposal was hanging somewhere on the Ministry of Finance's website or on the various departments' pages. While the state is doing this in a more or less non-public way, there is a requirement for something completely different in municipalities, regions and municipalities. The last comment on this proposal, I do not want to delay it, I will make the amount of funds for the performance of the state administration of municipalities and cities. In 2011, at least for those who remember, in the context of the economic crisis, this contribution decreased by around 17 to 18 per cent by using the so-called coefficient 0,824 to the calculated contribution. After five years, we are experiencing economic growth, which in relation to this contribution was reflected by an increase of 1% in the previous year and next year by an increase of the proposed 5%. That's a relatively long journey to the less than 18 percent. I do not consider it polite for municipalities and cities to do activities that provide for the state to do part for free. Moreover, they also have to cope with the mandatory increase in their employees' tariff salaries by around 4% in the next year, for which they also did not receive any additional funds. My serious colleagues and colleagues, I really have fundamental reservations about this draft budget. It's not the budget itself. These are more or less numbers on paper that may not match reality anyway. For this reason, I cannot in any way support those basic budgetary indicators, revenue, expenditure and the projected deficit. I'd consider it irresponsible. That is why I am joining the motion that fell from Mr Kalousek's mouth here to return the budget for the recast. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u7	Thank you. With priority rights, the rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to respond to my colleague Vilímca. He said that the municipalities were damaged by removing a 30% motivational component from the personal income tax from tax returns. Well, it did, it did. I don't think it did, because I don't think the motivational file was fair. It was not fair for one reason that it was bound to the residence of an entrepreneur. I would understand - and I don't know why it was set up - if it were bound to where the businessman has an establishment. Because there may be problems, it pollutes communication, noise, etc. It's just that there's a little bit of damage to the village that the community has to deal with. But the fact that it's only for the municipalities that have an entrepreneur's cadastral in their territory, he's got a place there, and he doesn't have an establishment there, so I think it's pointless. Otherwise, of course, it's moving. They will not lose the money in the global because they will get more in their share of value added tax since 2017. And that's roughly two billion crowns. Moreover, because VAT is higher, so their share of VAT will, of course, also be higher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u9	prosit, Mr Vilímec, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u10	Thank you. I just want a little bit of a response, though it's more of a matter of some expert debate. Now I don't want to judge the fairness of the motivation. Of course, someone on the territory of the village records or has an entrepreneur, someone does not have an entrepreneur. Of course, for those who have entrepreneurs, abolishing motivation is a big problem. That's a really big problem. And I don't want to spread the word around here right now, but I want to respond to the numbers of buyers, I don't mean it critically right now. Two billion plus and a billion minus. See how much the Minister expects to increase the collection of personal income tax. It counts far more than was thought a year ago. So if you put the numbers together, you subtract them, you'll basically find that the municipalities are losing it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u11	Thank you. Mr Dolejš, who is now duly applied for, will be prepared by Mrs Semelová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u12	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. When I look at our slightly thinned benches, it's like we're not even discussing one of the most important laws this year. Maybe some people think that when we have a majority, it's painted, and why we're even stalling at first reading with some debates. But I think there's a point in the debate. Do they make sense, because when other times do we have to think about the most basic thing that we even expect from budgetary policy? And, of course, in the most basic approaches, there are not only material, economic, but also political differences in these approaches, which have some history, some argument, and which stand in deciding whether we really want to change budgetary policy, or, as the economy develops, one is up, one is down, more or less we are going on track. And at least for myself and for our faction, that's how we feel about the problem. And if you'll allow it, even if it's clear, everyone has declared their positions as they will vote over the basic figures of the state budget, the very conceptual way of debate, the management of the argument, I consider it important, and that is why I will allow myself to bother you for a moment. Including the government itself. I reckon there's three of them, that's the collective. That's a collective, so hopefully it won't fit in. First of all, I think that the third draft budget of this government, I don't count the very first one, they basically just had to finish what the interim government pre-made, so it's largely a wasted opportunity. Why? Because the government started in a situation where it had a very simplified situation. When the economy went into the boom, even in one year, last year it showed numbers above average. One of the best in the EU, though itself, admits that it is not thanks to its diligence, but to the drawing of European money. This created some room for maneuver. For the sake of a more fundamental alignment of some things from the past, for setting up some strategic initiatives for the future, because it is much easier to do these things when you have the room for manoeuvre. And of course, the room for manoeuvre is given to the performance of the economy and the above-average income. And I dare say it didn't happen. koneckonců all, even the representatives of the coalition series refer to this budget as cautious, conservative, I would use the word traditional. It is our ambition to be prudent, no doubt. But if it's the tradition of staying in a certain track that's been set up here for many years, and they're just changing scenes, possibly. the framework of the business cycle phase, or do we want something else, something more? Since clearly the Czech Republic is not succeeding in placing itself more in the front of this map of political-economics, the social process is slowed down, if not slowed down, when the Czech Republic remains somewhere on the tail of more advanced countries and is not even ready for substantial changes that will undoubtedly come. Who has done the work and studied, for example, the Industry 4.0 study, so undoubtedly he perceives that some things will come. Either sooner or later. And are we ready for them? Of course, I suppose I would have heard from right-wing benches: Yes, it is necessary to prepare, but it is not the State's duty to prepare for such things. This is a matter of private sector skill and the state should not interfere. Well, of course, here we are at the conceptual approach. We do not think that the role of the state is not to interfere. The role of the state is to help. Helping strategic initiatives. If someone has a vision like that - I don't share it - but if someone has to run a vision like that, state as a company, if the company is big, doesn't it require her to have her own strategy? And she doesn't want her to influence the strategy and drive it? So, of course, the state needs it, too. Of course, strategies in the political process have their specifics on how to formulate and influence them, but I dare say that strategic thinking is a hell of a need. So the budget didn't take advantage of the opportunity. The budget was written in quite good times. There have been words that the Republic, the economy is in good shape, and that therefore it is actually at ease, there is no immediate threat, citizens received not Christmas but pre-election gifts and everyone is satisfied for at least the next few months. Everything's fine, potatoes in line. But the question is whether such an inertial budgetary policy prepares us first of all for what is coming, and secondly, if the economy is going so hard, then if it should not be a little more for the population after all. Whether it's just someone who's getting benefits from that rise. Citizen thinks so, because logically, he's interested in his wallet, his home budget, whether he has a job security longer term, or he's doing well right now, but he doesn't have to know how to pay his mortgage, et cetera, et cetera in a year. That is why it is appropriate to say whether such a budget creates assumptions for the future. And here I have to say, and I am already coming to controversy not with the government, but with other approaches that we cannot support even the optics that the right-wing opposition is repeatedly telling, of course, that calls for the budget to be cut by another 30 billion. It would seem possible, technically it is possible, especially if at the end of the year we find out that we are at least 30 billion in those figures. Missed, and that's a piece of cake. Let's cut it now. We won't be celebrating at the end of the year, because at the end of the year we won't be what, but we'll make it work. It'll work out for us. [[15.20 hours]] Is that the point of budget work? It will not happen to us by cutting off the budget like this at this point, and we will even argue it with operational items, which is undoubtedly within the rampant bureaucracy with that traffic, but if we cut the money now, we will undoubtedly not have the strategic priorities that I am calling for. And if the political preamble to this budget says that certain government priorities are being fulfilled, I am just saying that the coalition compromise has some formulated, formalized priorities, but I do not consider those priorities to be strategically targeted enough. Unfortunately, the coalition compromise that I'm talking about right now is a certain combination of an unconnected or difficult to connect. They've made a deal, so it's undoubtedly unmistakable. But it's hard to connect. On the one hand, promises of wonder not the Scandinavian prospects of a successful social model, on the other hand, management-business rhetoric on the free market, not America's cut. How do you put this together? How can we avoid ending up with a genuinely articulated right-wing opposition to cuts, but thanks to these blunt cuts, we will not be in a situation where social deprivation, which led to the great discontent of the population two or three years ago, will come back again? So I don't think there's anything to be happy about. I don't think there's any reason to think that everything in temporary quiet times, that we can settle for this traditionally and formally conceived budget. When we look at economic developments, it has already been said here that in 2015 it was a departure, that it is nothing stable and long-term and that this year, but also in the future, we are going back to some low, European low numbers, and that even the boom trend is slowing down, it is slowing down. So if we even look behind the hills at the neighboring Slovák, they plan for you and also fill much bigger economic growths. How is that possible when they are roughly in the same economic area? When they have the same macroeconomic and international conditions? Maybe they have a better prime minister and finance minister? If I were you, I would ask myself such questions, because no doubt a similar comparison was offered at a time when instead of dealing with the crisis, we deepened it with us. So that's the subject. A certain prognostic realism, that is. And the conjucture really cools to a large extent, and we don't solve it, we don't accept the problem, but rather the passivity makes it chronic. Another thing that bothers me a little bit -- I admit it is, it's a little bit of a political marketing thing. I get that. But a way to argue that this budget is only good, because some of the pleasures have been put into the budget. Of course, it's okay that wage slumps in the public sphere have started to level. Of course, it's okay that the payment for state insured persons has increased, that more has been added to pensions, at least the three hundred, because it finally matched the numbers demanded by the Senior Council. It's all right. But when we realize how it happened at all, and I think my colleague Opálka was already talking about it, that is, a huge distaste for the government by the finance minister, then a flexible concession to take credit right before the election, and just after the election, it was said: they are forcing me to make irrational concessions to you coalition partners. I have just heard something similar from Mr Pilný's fellow chairman of the Economic Committee. So what's it like, then? And how am I supposed to take the Prime Minister's promises seriously, who would like to withdraw the political benefit from those promises again, but are we still on the level of promises? His coalition partner says otherwise. So how do I feel about this budgetary responsibility? Practical data as to who gets the benefits. Yes, doctors, sitting here among us, it is an undoubtedly respectable profession and certainly their current salaries cannot be compared to the richest countries in Europe, 10 percent has been added, if I am not mistaken. Of course, some professions in the public sphere are much less, and in the private sector, depending on the outcome of collective bargaining. But the elderly were added 2.7 percent, that's the three hundred. Try to think about how much you're going to buy for 300 a month, while in the Czech Republic by 8 percent, a relatively significant leap in that year, there have been more dollar millionaires. This is a clear signal, who somehow collects the benefits, and that even in good times there is no absolute poverty in the lower ten percent of the population, so there is undoubtedly relative poverty in society. And then it's very platonic to debate whether we're going to look for the center of social justice in the urban population, if we're going to add more to the post-material values. These are very platonic considerations, because much more practical is that there is a certain social bomb that we are refusing to see at the moment. Yes, the tripartite dialogue has improved. That's some credit. But, of course, this dialogue is a very conflicting matter. Of course, because every tripartite participant there defends their interest position and it's not automatic that what they agree on is an optimum, but it's just a force vector. And the result is that a whole series of tripartite themes remain under the table, even though we have some sort of boom curve at a rather high level. I'll remind you of the existential and living minimum. I will mention the issue of the deadline and the financial provisions for the reimbursement of sickness. I will remind you, and I think that even economic operators might be able to perceive, I will recall the issue of structural non-compliance in the labour market. Because if we are enjoying the fact that unemployment numbers are quite good right now, regionally it is definitely not true and it is not true in terms of professional affairs. And when I add to that the perspective of the pressure of competition from the perspective of developing a new version of industrial production, it is clear that we are not ready for this. Again, will we leave it in the free market, or will we help it with clear and budgetary instruments of state economic policy? So it is also undoubtedly necessary to direct attention here. Expenditure should, of course, be smart, not wasted, precisely aim, achieve problems and multiplier effects. I'm sure we can agree on that. Unfortunately, I feel that when I look at the expense structure, it dominates the approach here: If we already have the money, we spend it. And if we spend it, we'll check it with the system, let's call it accounting. But that's a problem again. Moreover, I think that it is not based on solving deeper structural problems. The fact that this government, I dare to guess, does not require a very psychic sphere, but does not solve the pension system so that it is sustainable and that the clients of the pension system, i.e. the vast majority of our pensioners, ensure the pension that is necessary for a dignified survival. The bureaucratization of the state administration. I could go on. Of course, investment, state investment, is a specific issue, because investment can be seen as competitive private investment. But there are areas where the government is unrepresentable, and it is not enough to rejoice that we have allocated more investment than in the past period, we have sent them especially to the largest plumber, i.e. the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, even though it is repeatedly found that we can't even draw out the money, to draw out that it is limping investment preparedness, which, by the way, is one of the consequences that this year's numbers are so good. This isn't about the astronomical income jumping out, it's about spending time. These are all factors that are warning. [[15.30 hours]] And, of course, they're not just transport constructions. Both economically and socially, it is important to have a certain roof over your head. When we look at the fate of another state fund, the State Housing Development Fund, it lives. He still has some functions, some kind of reduced interest he'll provide somewhere, but he doesn't have much money. His programs were significantly reduced. However, the development of housing especially in the area of starting apartments, when a lot of people are in the old age, but even young families have no chance of starting apartments and mortgage can be a step towards execution if they lose their regular income, it makes sense. But it would mean, first, putting money there and, second, revitalizing the original ideas, the functions that this fund had. There is undoubtedly something to think about on the expenditure side, and I believe that my colleagues at second reading not only from our faction, but, of course, I am rooting for my own but also for any reasonable suggestion that they will come up with something to correct the expenditure structure. Let us really remember that some things can't be solved by partial corrections in second reading, that there are certain traps that will shut down. One of the traps is that we cannot endlessly compete with the world with cheap work and that we must change the structure of our economy in the spirit of that concept of Industry 4.0. And that will make it even worse if the promise of the representatives of the Czech National Bank comes out that by the end of next year they could start leaving the intervention of the exchange rate, because while the target of increasing inflation did not succeed very much, inflation was not too much imported, which is a good thing for a number of commodities. It definitely worked as an export pillow. And if you change this session by just two crowns, it'll really be hard for some companies if it's jumping, to adapt to it. I have read somewhere, I feel that a similar consideration has been accepted by the Governor, who undoubtedly sees this as one of the very difficult tasks in the first year of his new career. Revenue, yes, revenue is being paid. The question is, to what extent, especially in the future. Improved income is driven by economic growth, because, of course, economic growth is found to be a taxable basis and we know that each one percentage point of GDP is worth at least 15 billion. CZK into the budget, but to what extent is adequate or rather overrated measures in the area of tax administration and especially as it will be in the future, because some steps will bring about a transitional effect and it is clear that if revenue is planned in this budget to almost 6%, these are the figures that compare the plan against the plan. When you take an estimate of revenue for this year, you're at a rate of just 2 percent of the increase in income, and this completely corresponds to the growth of the economy. Clearly, there is no benefit from procedural measures. And the question is, why is that at all, why are the numbers shot down, or to a large extent virtual? If it isn't about the fact that it's easier to brag about the surplus at the end of the period and then beyond the complex budgetary procedure and the political approval of power to decide on these billions. There's something to think about in the income area. And precisely because we are still in a booming phase, although slower, I think there was space, and it has been missed, to consider a more fundamental effect on the tax structure. I recall a bearded proposal, by far not just ours, for tax progress, and by far not just for individuals. I was talking about benefits, who's got what to do with it. In the Republic, objectively measured, the rate of capital taxation is below average and corporate taxation is taboo, probably for political reasons. It's a shame, because here we could once again get some extra resources to make room for a real budget change here. Don't worry, I'm going to the finals. Why are we even trying to raise these issues here when it is clear that I believe that in the evening we will vote on the resolution for the first reading of the budget. In order not to make it clear that the third path, i.e. inertial, restrictive, and the path that is based on some thoughtful budgetary activism, is possible, criticism is not the product of some negativism, and that these topics should not only be opened up but transmitted to public debate, whether lay or professional. Of course, we have supported the state budget at times, but we must have a very good reason for this. I will remind those who do not have the history of the state budget of this Republic in their head that the KSČM faction voted for the budget in 1999. The logic was simple. The minority government, i.e. Miloš Zeman, ruled to be clear, and this minority government did not yet have a solid opposition treaty in this area in the first year of its ruling, and there was a risk that political blackmail would have the effect of making budgetary provisionals. I think it is a rather rational and state-building step if we voted then. But if the budgetary philosophy that I have been talking about all along is not addressed, and the political compromise is moving again towards budget restriction, then there is no understanding there, and already in 2000, when the opposition treaty was, when it was coming back for this reason, the budget to be recast under the baton of colleagues from the ODS, it could no longer be obtained by our votes. I think that now, although the situation is much calmer, the government has a safe majority, and colleagues from the right are defining, because they feel it is an obligation to their free market religion and to minimize the state, so I still think that those essential alternatives need to be posted, discussed. And that's exactly why I talked today. In fact, with this crucial justification, I am heading towards the fact that this budget cannot be supported even at first reading. It is not a delay, it is an attempt to make this state not only have a strategic vision but also a more strategic budgetary policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u13	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Another duly signed up is Mrs Semelová. Mr Karamazov will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u14	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, in my speech I would like to address the two areas that are close to me, and this is the area of education and social, the chapters of the Ministry of Education and the MPSV. As for Chapter 333, the Ministry of Education. At first glance, it seems that we can be satisfied with the budget of the chapter that the budget is acceptable, at least if we compare it with last year. We certainly agree with the increase in money for education by almost 14 billion crowns, with the fact that it will improve regional education by about 8.4 billion, i.e. by almost 9 percent. We agree with an increase of CZK 1 billion of CZK 150 million for higher education, with an increase in the salaries of school teachers and non-teaching staff. It is good that the programme will continue to develop the teaching capacities of nursery and primary schools established by local authorities, within which actions are implemented. a fund for the development of the capacities of nursery and primary schools. With gratitude in this context, I accept that part of the funds will be intended for the implementation of selected primary school projects in the ring around Prague, where the situation is really critical, and are paid for by children and parents in Central Bohemia and the capital. On the other hand, when I study more closely, I wonder whether this increase is sufficient in relation to changes in education. International comparison of OECD countries, an international organisation of 34 of the world's most economically developed countries, shows that the Czech Republic is one of those countries that give the smallest part of their gross domestic product to education. Most are saved in primary and secondary schools, at which it gives from all over the OECD with the exception of Hungary at least. The average share of the school budget in EU countries per GDP is about 6.1 percent, with us slightly more than 3 percent. In doing so, the number of primary school pupils will increase, counting by 2,9%, i.e. by more than 25,100 pupils, growth is also expected in the field of secondary and higher vocational education. This means that it will be necessary to increase the number of pedagogical and non-teaching staff and to expand the premises, buildings, classrooms, school clubs, etc. But it's hard to get a teacher if the salaries aren't raised as required by the school unions. In this context, I note that in primary schools only 16 percent of men teach that there are missing teachers of mathematics, physics, chemistry, ICT, vocational training. This is already a really big problem, because every year more teachers retire than they do after graduation, in addition, few applicants apply to the technical fields of teaching, many of which still go outside of education after graduation. Another problem is inclusion. It is confirmed that money is not enough that directors have to finance assistants from increased teacher salaries, that there are no adequate conditions created, that there is an increasing administration, lack of special educators, psychologists, counsellors, Methodists, preventists, somewhere they can't get an assistant, somewhere they have it, but it interferes with their teaching. Despite promises that special schools will not be interrupted, this is starting to happen and special counseling centres are getting into serious situations. As far as universities are concerned, the total budget of universities is CZK 21 billion 527 million, which is CZK 1 billion 150 million for universities more than in 2016. Despite this positive fact, compared with the budgets of previous years, this is the fourth lowest budget in the last ten years. They had the most universities in 2009. The share of the proposed expenditure on higher education for 2017 outside science and research and innovation and without EU funds against estimated GDP is 0.44%. The draft budget thus does not allow for continuous coverage of increasing demands on higher education, such as support for the fields of dental, general medicine, pedagogy, technical unions, support for schools in regions, etc. In doing so, we know how important the quality of the educational process as such is for the competitiveness of our economy. Now, as for Chapter 313, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Despite the increase in finance, for example, for mandatorial expenses, especially for pension and sickness insurance benefits, many unfinished business remains in this department. The amount of expenditure on employment policy, housing availability, social housing, starting apartments, low pensions, endangered social services are just some examples of what needs to be addressed and what needs to be financed. However, the budget of the MPSV chapter does not meet these needs. Specifically. When it comes to unemployment, even when it decreases, it does not mean that it is not. It needs to be dealt with. The average number of job applicants in the first half of this year was 433 thousand, during which 274 job applicants were newly registered, which is only 5.1% less than a year ago. Otherwise, the records are distorted. There's a lot more unemployed. Each month, roughly 20,000 unemployed people are eliminated, who have no more jobs. A major problem is long-term unemployment, which leads to poverty and homelessness and other negative phenomena. Of the total number of people without work, those who are unemployed for more than 12 months were 40.8%, a total of 154 273 people. The average unemployment rate is 721 days, and these people and their entire families are in a very bad situation. In addition, 85 782 people received unemployment benefits in the previous month, i.e. only 22.7 per cent of all tenderers recorded in the register. Other unemployed people don't have support. For additions only, its amount is in diameter, 6 564 crowns. What puzzles me in this context is that the budget is counting on reducing the amount of expenditure on active employment policy by CZK 5.5 billion compared to this year. In doing so, job creation is extremely important. Of course, it is equally important that the needs of the labour market are consistent with education so that school graduates do not remain unemployed or need not be requalified immediately after completion of professional training, which costs a lot of money. Although the number of unemployed persons has decreased year on year, this does not mean that 12,5 % of young people under 25 years of age without work are negligible. As of 30 September 2016, there were 17 514 former students at the employment offices and 21 054 graduates of all schools and adolescents were enrolled. I don't think there's any need to stress what it means to a person, to a young person, to acquire and strengthen work habits and acquired knowledge and skills, immediately after school. Another group at risk of unemployment is people aged 50 or over. The statistics of the Labour Office show that at the end of September this year there were 121 354 registered people over 50 years of age and thus more than 32 percent of total unemployment. So once again, I must reiterate that, in relation to what I have said, I am struck by the proposed reduction in expenditure on active employment policy. [[15.50 hours]] Social services. Enough has been said here, however, a few words. The need for social services is increasing due to the ageing population. However, like every year, social services are financially undervalued this year, which may jeopardise their functioning. Some social services have long been in a critical financial situation. They are forced to significantly reduce their activities, the working conditions of nurses are deteriorating, who have a desperately low salary for very demanding work. There is - but it is already manifesting itself - that nurses in elderly homes, nursing homes and other social facilities, where their presence is absolutely necessary due to the infirmity and degree of illness and disability of clients, will be released because there is no money for their salary. Who will take care of these people? We tell each other that every year. Social services must also be financed over the course of each year, both from the state budget and from the regional budget. Constant conjecture leads to uncertainty and stress for employees and clients. This year, 9.27 billion are reserved for them. In 2016, the final budget, i.e. the budget after the changes to 31. 8. 2016, 9,19 billion Crowns. So we have here a proposal to increase de facto by just 80 miles. The koruna, which doesn't solve the situation. The budget needs to be increased by half a billion crowns. In conclusion, in general, with regard to the budget. [[The speaker's throat is dry.]] I'm sorry. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. - It's okay. Please continue.]] Thank you. We welcome the increase in the salaries of pedagogical and non-teaching workers, paramedics, firefighters, police, as well as the increase in contributions for state insured persons and the growth of pensions. This is where I have to stop. The increase in pensions of CZK 308 per month, which was originally to be even lower, CZK 200, is very small. The average old-age pension will be CZK 11 776, which is a real increase of 1,5 %. Our seniors are gonna get really fucked up! And yet many of them are far from reaching the average level. Moreover, the government does not increase the basic pension ratio. It will only increase by 110 crowns, which is disadvantageous for low-income pensioners. Because it's average, some get added more, others get less. Others at risk are those who work, but on such a crappy salary that they fall into poverty and social exclusion. The increase of the government's minimum wage to 11,000. The koruna is quite inadequate. Our idea of its size is completely different. We want to gradually increase the minimum wage to 14,000. CZK, i.e. to about 50 percent of the average wage, so that people can live more dignifiedly. Unfortunately, the government was unable to even reach the unions and increase it by at least another 500 crowns, while the resources for this would certainly be found. It would be enough to take into account the KSČM's long-term proposals, and it has already been said here by Jiří Dolejš, such as progressive taxation. Finally, as a Prague Member, I would like to ask whether the government is counting on fulfilling the Prime Minister's promise that its government will help to complete the completion of the Prague Circuit, which would help not only the inhabitants of the capital and Central Bohemia, but all who travel or pass through Prague. In conclusion, as regards some of the areas that I have mentioned, I will return to them during the second reading, when I will put forward amendments. Otherwise, in this form, and it has been said here since my previous speakers from our club, this draft budget cannot be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u15	Thank you, too. Mr Karamazov now duly signed up and Mr Marek Černoch will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, many have already spoken from the mouth of my previous speakers, yet allow me a few more words. At the outset, I must say that if some colleagues were surprised by the draft budget, I am certainly not surprised. In view of a number of previous steps by the existing socialist government, which has long been destroying the business environment, no one can be surprised by the budget, which is literally a browser again. Although for next year, the government expects quite decent GDP growth of 2.7 percent, the deficit is still to reach 60 billion. The koruna, which is only 10 billion. less than the original government plan for this year. In the explanatory report on the draft budget for 2015, we could read two years ago that the Czech Republic will seriously deviate from the path to roughly balanced management of the general government sector. I regret to say that much has not changed in this regard. If the government continued at the current pace, we would have reached a balanced budget sometime in six or seven years, and who knows that at all. This really is not a result that ministers should be proud of. In order not to be merely critical, I must say that the draft law on the state budget contains lighter chapters. One of them is Sections 31 and 32, which are represented within the sectoral breakdown by expenditure on education and education services. You should rise by more than 7 billion next year. CZK, which represents annual growth by about 5.5 %. Most of this increase represents an increase in the salaries of teachers and non-teaching workers. I do not think it is a dispute that teachers and non-teaching workers are undervalued for their work in the long run and that it was time to finally do something about it, for which I am sure it belongs to the government to thank. I hope, however, that the salary increases will not turn out the same way they often did in the past, when tables have been raised for teachers, but teachers of the same amount have lost their personal appreciation. However, what I do not understand in the context of the school chapter is the planned increase in the current expenditure of the Ministry of Education by more than 10 per cent, to the limit of almost 400 million. Crowns. It means only one thing - we will add more to teachers, but we will throw even more away ourselves. I'm not sure this is the direction we should take. We will certainly not build up the effective functioning of the government by strengthening current spending at the expense of the investment. Dear colleagues, as I have tried to find some positives on the draft state budget, I have been forced to say for the fourth time in this parliamentary term that the proposed budget is not pro-growth but consumer. In many ways, the government uses economic growth to waste money instead of creating conditions for further growth in our economy, and thus a better future for all citizens. I cannot, in principle, agree with that. I refuse to let us enjoy at the expense of our children's future. I refuse to waste money headily, because all citizens of the Czech Republic will end up with no exception to those who will pay for such an approach. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u17	Thank you, too. Before we go any further, I'll read the apologies. Today, from 16 to 17 o'clock, Mr Komárek cancels his apology. Furthermore, from 15.05 to the end of the day, for reasons of work, Mr Karel Pražák apologizes and from 16 o'clock for health reasons, and from tomorrow's day for health reasons, Mr Vojtěch Adam also apologizes. Mr Marek Černoch will now appear and Mr Michal Kučera will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u18	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. For the Dawn Party, a statement on the draft state budget. In a period of sustained economic growth, from our point of view, such a large deficit is absurd. In fact, we would have to dig into the past a long time ago to find a proposal that would be equally irresponsible. Suggesting a deficit in a situation where the economy is growing in the long run is irresponsible and also amateurism, because even an amateur understands that, at a time of constant economic growth, when the korunas are just pouring in the state budget, and when this year's economy is at least balanced, a budget with a 60-billion-dollar manka cannot be assumed. I ask what happened to the Czech Republic for trouble, that even at a time when fortunately we do not have either an economic recession or a major natural disaster, we are not able to manage in a balanced manner. I'm asking when else we're supposed to have a balanced budget today. In a detailed examination of the state budget, we will find that the fiscal policy of the government is a waste and a cheerful spending of income from economic growth. I am absolutely fascinated by the resignation of balanced management in the medium term. In 2018, the deficit is to be 50 billion. 31 billion in 2019 And all this despite the fact that the Ministry continues to calculate with robust economic growth. [[16.00 hours]] At this rate, we will never reach a balanced budget. I repeat, never. The fundamental error of this year's budget, on which most experts agree, is the lack of investment. The investments are the only part of the budget that could at least justify the planned deficit in theory. However, the problem is that citizens' taxes disappear in the operating expenditures of ministries and authorities. Exactly in the expenses that Minister Babiš promised us before the election as the greatest savings. For all the specifics of the state budget, I will choose one. A huge mistake is how the government overslept in the preparation of transport structures. It's a problem that goes through the entire election period. And it's the failure of the government that she couldn't figure it out, and she's still making excuses for something. However, back to the basic parameters of the budget. On the Dawn side, I sum up that we cannot support the state budget with a manka of 60 billion, because it would be extremely irresponsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u19	Thank you, too. Now, Mr Michal Kučera and Mrs Jana Hnyková will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u20	Hello, thank you for your word. Mr President, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, I dare to follow up on the words of my previous speaker. And I will directly ask Minister Andrej Babiš: Mr Minister, what would the revenue of the state budget have to be in order to draw up a balanced budget? What's the number? 1.5 trillion, 2 trillion? You don't seem to be able to draw up a balanced budget for the numbers that are shown here. And that's a surprise for me, because if I was expecting something, I was expecting these very financial managerial skills, which, as it turns out, are probably, at least from these numbers, in words. My next question is, what are you borrowing the money for? You decided to borrow 60 billion for next year. Crowns. 60 billion. You borrow crowns, Minister Babiš, on the salaries of civil servants. You borrow 60 billion for civil servants' salaries and other expenses. Crowns. I think it's really indefensible. And when else than in this economic situation should a balanced state budget, if not a surplus state budget, be on the table? Because, once again, I ask how much income would have to be to be able to draw up a balanced budget. The planned state budget deficit for 2017 is 60 billion. Crowns. As I said before, the deficit rate is indefensible given the level of economic growth. Current economic parameters would look rather balanced, if not surplus budget. We have to remember, and it may have already been said here that spending is 30 billion. higher than the Government's approval of the House a year ago in the medium term. I don't understand. Why? According to the Minister of Finance, we are doing incredibly well. This year will be one of the most successful years in the history of the Czech Republic. And yet the planned expenses are 30 billion. higher than in the year approved by the medium-term framework. The government is disproportionately increasing budget spending, which will cause serious problems in the future when the economy does not grow as quickly as it does now. I think everyone who's been running a company for at least six months and has seen at least one plan or one budget. I think Minister Babiš is very aware of this. He just doesn't want to tell us. Their reduction will be unpopular and painful. As in 2011 to 2012. And here, of course, I'm having fun, for example. About pensions that the government has completely resigned from. Any adjustment in this direction. Pension expenditure will be more than 410 billion in 2017. Crowns. 410 billion. Crowns. Of course, I'm not going to compromise this level. However, I do miss any other measure that is zero on the part of the government. The government also disproportionately burdens or increases expenditure on civil servants' salaries. 2.5 billion. CZK 30 billion in total. CZK in 2017. First of all, it adds 4 % in tariffs, but mainly plans to increase the number of civil servants to 1,044 again in 2017. [[?!]] Under the current government, the number of civil servants has already increased by more than 10 thousand. Officials. Now I'm talking purely about officials. I'm not talking about teachers, firefighters, of course. That's a completely indefensible number. If I expected anything from Minister Andrej Babiš, it was the opposite step, the opposite trend. That means rationalization, savings, efficiency. We're going the other way, virtually. The government is going the other way. That means ten thousand in three years. more civil servants. Of course, it is right to add to the educators. I'd like to commend the government here. The question is whether this increase is sufficient and whether it addresses the low quality of Czech education. This means wage growth by 8 per cent, tariffs by 6 per cent. As far as I know, health care salaries are increasing by 10 percent. I think that education would deserve, or the increase in educators' salaries would deserve at least the same, if not a higher increase, which is incomprehensible in this wasteful budget, why this money was not found for educators when we borrowed 60 billion. Other items increasing expenditure by the State are e.g. higher expenditure on the payment of health insurance for state insured persons - by 3.6 billion. Crowns. The question is whether this could be dealt with by better management. But I don't think we're gonna see it coming from this government or from Minister Andrej Babiš. It's the right increase in spending on science, which, of course, we have to assess positively, by 3.75 billion. Crowns. Increasing the Ministry of the Interior's budget towards strengthening security by 4 billion. Crowns. There are some other activities missing in the direction of a better organization at the Ministry of the Interior. And, of course, a proper increase in the Ministry of Defence budget by 4.75 billion. Crowns. Increasing the Ministry of Culture's budget to strengthen live culture by 0.1 billion. The crowns seem rather ridiculously low to me. In short, I will touch one more budget here, or one ministry that is tragically underfunded, and that, of course, is the Ministry of the Environment. I mean, the commitment of the state budget to financing environmental protection, or the environment in general, is absolutely tragic, for 2017 it is 3.4 billion. Crowns. I mean, it's lower in 2010 and lower than in 2011. Thus, in times of deep crisis, the commitment of the state budget is much lower. Of course, I know that funding takes place from other sources, that it takes place from European funds and from other sources, but the structure is simply unhealthy, it is bad. At a time when funding is, of course, from European funds, it is linked to specific projects, it is not possible to continue working with it on the development of environmental protection in general. [[16.10 hours]] The Ministry of the Environment says that it has succeeded in halting the trend of the decline in state budget expenditure for 2010 to 2019. That means the trend is suspended for years to come. I wouldn't have seen it that optimistically. We are still deep below 2010, 2011, even when compared to 2019. So it's more like a declaration. If we wanted to see how much funding is made from the Ministry of the Environment's tax revenue, it's 0.42 percent of tax revenue. 0.42 % of tax revenue is the financing of the Ministry of the Environment. Of this, another 34 percent are emission allowances and 64 percent are revenues from the European Union. Totally unhealthy. And I think Minister Babiš knows that and he agrees with me. The fact that environmental protection is not a priority for this government is quite clear from other outputs and from other graphs. I will focus more on this topic in second reading. I would also like to call for cooperation between both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Environment to reflect on this fact, and for any amendments that come at second reading to support, because I believe that this chapter means the future in which we will live here, whether we will breathe fresh air, whether we will drink clean water, whether our children will grow up in a healthy environment, even Andrej Babiš and Richard Brabec will be a priority, not just some claim on paper, as it is up to now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u21	Good afternoon. I thank Mr Kučer. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mrs Jana Hnyková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a wonderful afternoon and allow me to say a few words about the budget as well. I originally wanted to discuss Chapter 313, here, but I think we'll have enough room for that on the Social Policy Committee. That's why I've focused on one category in the social field, and they're employees. Their salaries are increased by 4 percent on the first November 2011. I think this amount is low. During my visits to accommodation facilities, I meet repeatedly not only with the staff but also with the directors of the respective facilities. Workers in direct care are subject to high demands not only on personality qualities but also professional requirements. They become key workers. They must be educated and adapted to changes in access to human care. I repeat again - with the introduction of Act No. 108/2006 Sb. he has dropped and reduced the salary of these workers very significantly, while in the care he must follow the same procedures as in nursing care. Yes, the intention was to cut salaries and hire more workers into social services. However, the development of the composition of users in residential services has changed significantly over these years. There are accepted people with a degree of three and four, and this is associated with great care, but the salaries of these workers remained very low and remained at the end of the game? The average salary in 2015 for social services workers was CZK 18 136, but the average salary for direct care workers, i.e. those with beds, was only CZK 17 952. The average wage was CZK 26 467; the difference is CZK 8 515 for direct care workers. Many colleagues in direct care leave and retire and with poverty reach an average retirement pension of CZK 11 331. And I must sigh that one day this pension will not be enough for them to pay in a residential facility, which is CZK 330 for one day today, which means CZK 10,230 per month. If they are left with 15 percent of what is legally given to them, they will only be left with medicines, personal needs, but they will not be able to pay in this facility. This means that they will not actually be able to afford the care they have taken in the past for others. I don't want to make you feel sorry for or sympathy, I just want to draw attention to this miserable situation of employees that we want them to do their job well, well and for the benefit of other people. I understand that we only need social services at the end, when we haven't got enough power left to fight for the workers who care about us. I know it's not important to this company, too, because it would have taken a different approach to these employees. We will all grow old and be happy to be cared for by someone who will be empathetic, who will treat us well and who will also provide us with professional care. That is why I think that at a time when the economy is in very good shape, this work could be appreciated and paid for by these employees. I get an increase - and I repeat again - 4 percent for very low. I believe that Chapter 313 could have a different structure if we had an effective law on social housing. It would be saved in housing payments and payments and could be added to these very workers. But unfortunately, in three years of government, this law has not been introduced at all, and who knows what will happen to it. Prime Minister, if you were here, you would have heard, Minister Babiš and Minister Marksová, who is not here either. I'm talking about Secretary Marksová. [[note from the diaper]] An increase of 4 per cent is ridiculous for the work that is so necessary and will still be necessary. There is also already a lack of workers in this area. No wonder. Who would want to do that for the money? So I ask you, honourable Coalition Members, to think about this problem. Through your ministers, you can change this remuneration and thus ensure quality care in social services in the future, because we will all need it. I could talk about firefighters, police and soldiers' salaries for a long time, too. We always need them when we find ourselves in need. I don't want it to sound like I want to forget them here, but I took the liberty of drawing attention to the employees who are among the worst-rewarded in our society. Please do something about it so that we can ensure quality care in social services in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u23	Thank you, Mrs Hnyková. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mr Jan Zahradník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u24	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, in my speech at first reading, I would like to focus on the chapter of the budget, which, thanks to my focus and belonging to the Committee on the Environment, is my personal closest, and this is the chapter of the Ministry of the Environment - 315. I must say that I agree with the words that my colleague Vilímec, who criticised the formal budget creation, said here. I also cannot imagine that if an official at the South Bohemia Region or the Regional Authority had proposed such a budget to me that I would be satisfied with his proposal. It is relatively opaque and the scale that is chosen here is very rude, does not provide the possibility of a deeper insight into the various items of this budget. [[16.20 hours]] Specifically, as far as the chapter of the Ministry of Environment is concerned, we have four main spending blocks here. They are further divided into expenditure headings and individual programmes and sub-programmes. This is where it ends, this is no longer the case, and we no longer know how to identify individual more detailed expenditure items with the corresponding amounts and numbers. So first of all, what does spending look like? I don't want to comment on income. I think my colleague Kučera did that. I'll focus more on spending. Here we see an increase in expenditure in our budget of around 9.4 billion compared to last year. CZK 16.9 billion. CZK, i.e. almost 80 per cent compared to the budget of the chapter in last year's budget. This could certainly be acknowledged with enthusiasm, but it is, of course, because it is only this year that the European Union funds and financial mechanisms are starting to work fully - at least I hope - and that the resort may be able to start drawing funds from European Union funds. And we need to realise that next year we will be in the middle of the programming period. So far, we haven't drawn anything, so far we've exhausted less than 10 percent, and I think even less than 10 percent of all the possible resources allocated to us by the Union for the programming period. There is a risk that we will be chasing financial drawbacks again in the end, that we will once again be worried about whether we will be able to drain the funds. As far as the first spending block is concerned, it is nature and landscape protection, here I would like to draw attention to a matter that has a little bit of interest and concern. There is actually a three-item issue here about drawing money on the Natura 2000 system. First of all, there's a special item 3.1.1.3, there's 20 miles. CZK, then it is also in sub-programme 115162, which is intended to provide measures to support the protection of bird areas and European sites, which are actually Natura sites, or Natura sites for the second time. Finally, for the third time in the sub-programme 115315, protection and care of nature and landscape with a total subsidy of 1,302 billion. CZK, there is also money for the implementation of the Natura system, but here, unlike the first case that I mentioned, in those other sub-programmes that are thematically defined, there are individual items named by their names, but there is completely missing, what funds will be drawn up under these sub-programmes, which makes it impossible for any of us who would like to submit amendments in order to present these proposals at all. So that's my first critical point. There is no more detailed breakdown of each sub-programme comprising the individual programmes of the relevant expenditure blocks and expenditure sub-items. Then I have another example here. Technical environmental protection, that's another block of 3.2. Here I would like to draw attention again to the fact that there is a complete lack of a breakdown of the four main areas of support under the sub-programme for improving water quality and reducing the risk of flooding. That's a hugely important subroutine. There's 2.8 billion. CZK allocated for this. The vast majority of this will be from European Union funds. Again, we do not specify here what items will be subsidized by calls in these individual programmes. Then, technically, I have to record here, and I rather consider this to be a mistake for budget makers in printed form, that although there are technical environmental protection on page 15 of the expenditure block 3.2 of the sub-programme for reducing industrial pollution and environmental risks, this item is not directly worked out here. Climate and air protection. That's what I'd like to stop by. We have a budget on the agenda today, but according to the programme - if it is respected - we are to approve tomorrow the Paris Agreement, which is the result of the climate conference held in Paris at the end of last year. The conference set certain obligations for the signatories to the agreement. But I must say that I have not been able to find any funds in our budget so that we can somehow reflect the Paris Agreement if we join in ratification. That's the question. The Minister of the Environment has already signed it, he has taken on a great burden of responsibility, but we have not ratified it yet. It'll be tomorrow if everything goes well. You, the government coalition, are counting on you to ratify it, but there isn't much to think about in the budget. I would like to mention one more thing. I am quite pleased to see that you are trying to allocate money to energy savings in the budget, but under programme 115316 energy savings 2.1 billion. CZK you want to focus on reducing energy performance in public buildings, i.e. buildings that will build all components of public administration. But then you have another sub-programme for New Green Savings about 2.8 billion. CZK, which should already be focused on energy savings for the public, for family houses. But even here you claim 30% of the resources of this program for public buildings, essentially another billion crowns, which means that slowly 3 billion. The public sector is about to collapse, and the citizens around here will somehow be cut short in their expectations for which they are waiting. I would mention the last thing I have here, and this is spending block 3.4 of other environmental activities. I'm always kind of interested in this place. Here you can find subsidies that we send to all possible non-profit organizations in the field of the environment, whether there is Duha, Children of the Land, Calla, or Bold Bold, formerly Environmental Legal Service, whose daughter, Reconstruction of the State, bothers you with various demands on how to vote. Here, 20 miles is planned for non-investment grants to non-profit organizations. CZK, which I think is roughly the same as last year, so I'm sure there's money for the Rainbow somewhere. It's 15 miles away. CZK for programmes to support projects of non-governmental non-profit organizations. These projects are to be between CZK 30,000 and CZK 200,000 tops per project. How many projects? Are these nonprofits even capable of producing so many projects? [[16.30 hours]] My next question is whether there is also room to support these nonprofits in the last item - support for research, development and innovation, where he is newly included in the budget about, here I see, 153 miles. CZK for institutional support of research. That hasn't been there since 2011. It's in there now. And you're saying here that it's going to be given to the Czech Geological Society, CENIA, the TGM Research Institute and the Silva Taroucy Research Institute. Which is the last thing, the clutch, and it shows that it's these four in the list. That's for science and research for each of them to be 38 miles. crowns? Will they know what they're gonna spend it on? Just science and research? Compared to their normal functioning, how does that result from their mission? And at the very end of the last item, I think I also criticized it last year, transfers to international organisations 280 miles. Crowns. Here it might be worth reviewing, inventory of the benefits to us, to our Republic, has membership of these international organisations, that they deserve to be spent annually on contributions of 280 million. Crowns. Of course, I will still study the budget in more detail and will try to put forward some amendments, especially those that would reduce those soft projects and help projects that are just going to focus on what we are most interested in, that is the fight against drought, or rather. for some environmental crisis management, improvement of the water function of the landscape, etc. So I'm definitely going to sign up again for the second reading of the State Budget Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u25	Thank you. Another party to the general debate is Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the budget presented by the government today, it is clear that elections are coming. The cabinet doesn't deal with the long-term outlook, it's just going to spend money to please the public. Unfortunately, as a doctor, I know where such procedures lead. I followed many hospitals who decided to follow short-term benefits and forgot the rules of good management. Now these hospitals are drowning in debt and do not offer people good care. I fear that if this continues to be the case, it will not offer its citizens good services and our economy will not be competitive. All my life I've devoted myself to science. That is why I mind that expenditure in this area is decreasing in terms of GDP. As long as we have the position of Vice-President of the Government for Science, Research and Innovation. We are going in exactly the opposite direction, rather than caring if we have the quality conditions for carrying out research, and we are setting up new authorities for this. The numbers are clear. Since 2013, expenditure on science and research has fallen from 0.97% of GDP to 0.76% this year and will not return to the level they had before, because in the long term, 0.83% is expected. This is truly shameful at a time of economic growth. I have to admit, in quotation marks, I am fascinated by the argument that, despite the decline in investment in research and science, they will get more money. And repeatedly, the government here is praised for that. Those who claim this already forget to add that the reason for this is the growth of the economy, which thrives due to the personal deployment of entrepreneurs, businessmen and employees. The economy doesn't grow thanks to the government. The economy is more successful in government despite. Perhaps a month has not passed so that Sobotkův's cabinet does not come up with measures that bind active and hardworking people's hands with new administration or other costs. If the economy is growing, we have a unique opportunity to put more money in areas that will ensure a good future for us. Thanks to quality research, we can produce high value added products in our country and tear down the label of the assembly house, which competes with cheap labor. The future cannot be seen only by the optics of this government, which is trying to survive one year from the year to the election. Let us ask how our children will live in the Czech Republic when they grow up to have a chance to fulfill their dreams. Insufficient investment in science and research is by far not the only mistake of the draft budget for next year. When I found out that at a time when companies were having trouble getting employees, unemployment costs would increase by 7 percent, I thought it was some kind of special kind of humor. But the draft budget for 2017 really contains such nonsense. There are more shortcomings in the budget. A number of them can be found. The waste of money that others have earned is the discipline in which the government excels. But it is an approach that has never led to prosperity. The money that the government spends so much is not grown on trees. All citizens contribute from their taxes to the state budget. In the end, we'll all pay for reckless management. Although it is the voice of a caller in the desert, I call on this House to reject the populist-left draft budget and return it to a recast.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u27	I thank Mr Svoboda. Another party to the general debate is Mr Radim Holeček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u28	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, honourable Government, I have mixed feelings in the debate on the 2017 budget. I, of course, am most interested in science, research and innovation as a university educator. I could rejoice in this place. We really have an increase in funding from 29.1 billion in this budget. 32.8 billion. - but it's still less than 2012. This whole thing kind of reminds me of the Jewish anecdote that Kohn's going to see the rabbi, that he's got little room in the apartment. The rabbi gradually advises him to get a cat, a dog, a goat, a rabbit. Then Kohn can't stand it anymore, because there's a lot of them in the apartment, so the rabbi as the final solution will advise him to give away the cat, the dog, the goat and the rabbit. And Kohn rejoices at how many places they have in their apartment at once. Similarly, but in the reverse guard you did it during your government with spending on science, research and innovation. In terms of plethora terminology, you paired two eyes to knit three in the last year. The share of expenditure on research, science and innovation was between 0,97 and 0,98 GDP in 2012 and 2013 under the ODS. But research, science and innovation expenditure is constantly falling in terms of GDP, except for the currently proposed 0.83% of GDP by the government. In my opinion, there is no time for investment in our future other than now that the economy is booming and economic growth is expected to continue. Instead, the government dissolves the potential of economic growth in non-investment spending, a vast state apparatus. Under the current government, the number of civil servants has grown by an incredible 28,000. And most importantly, it doesn't leave me a peaceful rise of 604 new officials at the Treasury Department who will have a check report and an EET to do. In addition to the absolute amount of the deficit proposed, which is economically indefensible in terms of the rate of economic growth, I object to low support for research, science and innovation in the same place last year, and I say for myself that I will not support the food budget this year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u29	Thank you, Mr Holečka. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček is the last member of the general debate so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to save my performance for a second reading, except for a professional debate. But when I listened to the Prime Minister during his morning performance, as he here - forgive me for the expression - breasted how everything flourished and everything was excellent, I stopped at one of the parts I'm dealing with, and that's security. And it didn't give me a chance to get off at this first reading. In his morning speech, the Prime Minister said: In this state budget, which you have before you for 2017, we expect a significant increase in teacher salaries in regional schools, primary schools, secondary schools. We expect the state to contribute to higher salaries for civil servants, so we expect an increase in the salaries of doctors and nurses from 1 January next year. Yes, that's all true, and we know they're going to get increased by 8.10 percent of their basic tariffs. The Prime Minister continued: the salaries of other public sector employees are also rising. Firefighters, police officers, people who work in social services, unedagogical staff in schools. These civil servants will get their salaries increased by 4%, as the Prime Minister says. I'll mention only the security officers. Fire department and police won't get a raise, Prime Minister. You're returning to them what was taken from them by the Nečasův-Kalouskův government in 2010. Their real wages will still not reach the salaries they had before 2010. So let's tell the truth. You're not adding anything. You gradually return the percentage after the percentage of what was taken. And to know how much this government appreciates the work of the security forces, those firefighters, police officers, customs officers, and those of the Prison Service. You know, there's a rumor about firefighters that everyone's running from, that's where the firefighters are going. And it's true. It is one of the most demanding professions in this republic. Officers, maybe I can talk about this by the end of this day. But I'm not gonna talk about the job. I will mention only that the incoming member of the Police of the Czech Republic from you, the Government of the Czech Republic, will receive a starting salary of 16 thousand. A crown of brutto, of brutto. If he works in Prague, he gets a risk premium and gets everything from 22,000 to 23,000. That's rude. A member of the Police of the Czech Republic, who is obliged to work 150 hours a year for free, and most of them also do so because their superiors are very good at using it, so this police officer, this officer, has a salary of several thousand below the national average. I note that a member must have a certain education, meet certain requirements, and also is legally limited in many matters. If we just go to the things that they have to meet, that is. medical and physical fitness and education, so the demands are the same for the officers of the city police. And if you, colleagues and colleagues, are driving around Prague by public transport, you may notice that there are advertisements in the means of public transport, recruiting to be an officer of the Municipal Police in Prague. Officer of the Municipal Police in Prague will receive a starting salary of 28 to 30 thousand. That's rude. Plus the free ticket, the housing allowance, the food allowance, and more. City Police Officer has the only advantage - if he starts doing his job here in Prague, he will serve in Prague as long as he doesn't quit his job. If a member of the Police of the Czech Republic joins Prague, he may be assigned to serve on the other side of the Republic within a few days. No matter where his family is, where his background is. With a starting salary of 6,000 to 7,000. lower than the City Police Officer in Prague. If we're not talking about Prague, but about districts like mine in the north, the policeman doesn't have a gross salary of 20 grand. The crown of the rude. He works Saturdays, Sundays, holidays, outdoors at minus 20, in the rain. I could keep going. I just want to say that this government here boasts what it does for the safety of this country and how it increases wages. No. The appreciation of members of the security forces is pathetic. And that's why you can't even recruit. Because no one's reporting to you for that money to the security forces. That's why you're missing 400 members of the Prison Service. And you can easily increase the tables by another 250 tables, because you will remain vacant. Because those people won't want to do it for the money. The cops are leaving your service, the firemen are leaving your service. And you know it. If you do not come to the conclusion that it is necessary to increase the salaries of the Security Corps members as strongly as you have managed to do with the educators, the paramedics, we can look forward to a situation where it will not be safe in this country, because there will be no one to provide that security for us. So, Dear Government, as part of my second reading, I'm sure I'll be proposing some transfers to the chapter of the Ministry of the Interior. I know you probably don't approve of it mostly, but your security policy you're doing is gonna catch up with you someday. And I would not like it to affect all citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u31	I thank Mr Ondráček. Mr Jaroslav Holík, President Stanjura with a priority right, points out in fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, hello. Minister, when you boarded, you said you would run this state as a company. Of course, I don't have a company like Agrofert, I have a little business where I'm the only employee. But if I'm doing well, I'm either spending money, or I'm stockpiling it, or I'm saving it. And I'm not taking loans. The only time I take a loan is when I want to buy a new technology that will significantly increase my productivity. For this reason, I will not vote in favour of this budget and I ask that it be recast.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u33	I thank Mr Holík. Mr. President of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u34	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Prime Minister and Minister. You guys came to the ballroom like you were expecting an early vote. That's what they call optimism. I would like to say, after several of my colleagues have spoken, the definitive position of our club on the draft state budget. I would start with December 2015, when we were discussing the state budget for 2016. On behalf of our club, my colleagues and I have tabled amendments to save 30 billion and reduce the planned deficit from 70 to 40. With your hand in your hand, you turned them all down, saying it was necessary. Yesterday, the Minister of Finance announced that it would be a surplus or the worst balanced state budget in 2016. So consider yourself who was right last December. We who wanted to save 30 billion? And when I add, for example, a drop in investment over the first nine months of 37 billion, it's almost the surplus that's at the end of September. 30 plus 37 is 67. I think at the end of October, the surplus will be around 70 billion, according to the Minister's words, which he presented on the TV screen yesterday. This year we will come again with a set of amendments that will reduce expenditure. And just like last year, we propose to move them into the government's budget reserve, because the alternative is essentially no longer within the second and third reading. And unfortunately, I am almost certain that the scenario will be repeated that the government coalition will reject all the proposals for spending savings in order to hear in August or September next in a sharp election campaign: this was a deficit of 60 billion, but we are doing much better. I think that the more responsible approach is, when the amendments come, to judge them honestly and, if possible, to approve them, regardless of who makes them. Because if the 2016 error between the plan and the reality is between 70 and 80 billion, that is a significant error and a significant miscalculation. If it's in units of billions, and we realize that there's 1,250 billion spending around, then 1.25 billion is one permile. That's just gonna happen. No one can say that there is a better way to plan the revenue and expenditure of the state budget than with the error of one pardon. But at a time of seventy-eighty billion, you're no longer in mercy, but you're somewhere around 5%. And that is a mistake that is not to be made when a budget is well drawn up. I am again based on the Minister's words, which said what would be the likely outcome of the state budget in 2016. At the same time, when you look at the submitted material called Macroeconomic Prognosis, and it is the basic material with which each government, every Ministry of Finance comes, and on the basis of this forecast draws up a draft budget, estimates tax revenues, but also, for example, unemployment benefits and so on, you will find that according to this forecast, and that is what not only the Ministry of Finance but also other reputable institutions agree, growth will be greater than 2% of GDP. Now let's ask ourselves a simple question. This year's balanced state budget. We're going to have economic growth next year. And what's the plan? Logically, it should be surplus. Maybe slightly, but surplus. And the government is completely illogical about the deficit or the deficit proposal of 60 billion. It is a pity that so far none of the government Members, with the exception of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, have been involved in the debate. It's like none of you have anything to say about the budget. For example, defending the illogicality that we see, that this year zero, next year growth and plan minus 60 billion. I understand that, because it is very difficult to defend in this simple view, because the first reading serves to discuss the basic parameters, there will certainly be enough time at second reading to discuss the planned operating expenses in particular. And that's where the savings are huge, or maybe the savings are huge. [[There's an increase in the sound level in the O.R. Members talk to each other, some talk on the phone.]] When I listened to the Prime Minister, he was right to say that the plan for next year is 25 billion more than this year's planned. No one can question that. The table is available to everyone. It's a Treasury table. [[He's showing the paper.]] But let's see how it's been since 2012 with investments. For this year, the original proposal, then it was modified during the year, extremely low. 78,5 billion. Then there's no problem raising it by 25 billion. I am one of those who evaluate the state budget results only during the first week of January, because individual sub-months are a clue, but they do not give a complete picture of the state's management. I, unlike the Minister, who apparently has at his disposal on yesterday's or yesterday's date, have the latest data available, the one published by the Ministry of Finance at the beginning of October, with the result in the first nine months. These data are publicly available and I believe that many Members work with them and regularly read and compare the reports... Maybe I'd ask those who don't like it that they can talk somewhere else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u35	I fully agree. I ask for peace in the Chamber of Deputies. Please transfer your calls to the machine guns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u36	I also know that many investments are accounted for at the end of the year, at the end of the construction season. But I can only come out of the first nine months. And there was a slump against 37 billion investments last year. Or the unfulfilled 37th. The performance was extremely low. And even though I'm a fan of surplus and balanced budgets, I don't think it would be by strangling investment. The figures from the Ministry of Finance material are clear. In 2013, when the global economic crisis was still coming to an end, the reality was 113,6 billion. In 2013, when again that year can be characterised as the last year of crisis, stagnation, recession, as you call it, 102.3 billion. And today, after four years of economic growth, the Prime Minister will actually announce that it is increasing by 25 billion next year, compared to last year, but the figure is 103.7 billion, which is about the whole - I would say ridiculous - 1.5 billion more than in 2013. 1.5 billion more on investment than in 2013. Under the payroll item for civil servants, in this single item, it is against 2013 plus 28 billion. And I think it would be good for the Czech economy if it had already allowed this deficit, so that the figures would be reversed, for example, to increase investment against 2013 by 28 billion. That would certainly be good news, and it would be one of the arguments that you could use as government MPs, why the proposed deficit is so high. Unfortunately, it's not. And unfortunately, it's just numbers in the debate. I took the job and compared the Department of Transport's press releases from the past three years with this year's. Every year we start the same constructions - as planned, we have to say. I think it's on their computer, that word, control shift ins, watch out, change the year, so it's not for Saturday. There it is. [[Some entertainment in the hall.]] And we all want the buildings to start. Let's not argue with which highways. Maybe let's argue about the priority that's supposed to be the first. I have a favorite R35 and then a road circuit around Prague. That's what I think is the two most important buildings for the whole republic. But it's all over again. And you're laughing, but it's not funny. I'm bohužel so. The following law, which we will discuss at first reading, could help. Let's see what the final shape is. But it's one of the reasons for the long term. To be fair, it is not only less this government, but also those of the previous governments that we have failed to simplify the construction process. And we'll see how this experiment ends, because the resistance will be great. Those ideological groups, which basically hinder the idea of every construction world, will not want to accept that they will only be able to enter the proceedings once, for example, because they are satisfied with the current state that they are entering it repeatedly - the zoning plan, the principles of territorial development, the territorial decision, the building permit, the EIA. I'm sure you could fill me in on where it is. These processes are repeated and constructions are delayed and delayed. [[17,00 hours]] I'm taking a little bit of the building list with a spare. I understand that this is politically advantageous, and every government does it, in this sentence I put emphasis on everyone's word. But there's a difference between whether we start working the highway in October 2017 or April 2017. I guess we can agree on that. And again, I'm saying that every government says it's 140 km of new highways, even if next year only the diggers, as the Prime Minister was there, and then the diggers left, and nothing happened for three months, if you remember. But that was a long time ago when the diggers were there for the first time, but even then we could say we started x kilometers of new highway. A much more important parameter is how many kilometers of new highways open, which I think is much more important. And again, who knows a little bit about it from the construction law through project preparation, competition, realization, so they know that no government is opening up the construction they're starting. There's no way to do this in four years. So if we say that few sections of highways opened this year, I don't want to say that it's absolute zero, I'm not quite sure at the moment, but I feel that it is, so of course that wasn't caused last year. Thanks to the EIA, you've postponed many other buildings, and now I'm not talking about the ten, nine that have an exception at the moment, but I'm talking about the other ninety, so we're going to start with the Ministry of Transport's press releases in 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020. If that were true, actually, in five years, we have another 15 hundred kilometers of highways. Such a plan is not even a total of how many motorways can arise. Colleagues talked about spending on science and research. And once again, it shows how nice science, statistics, and mathematics is, it's a good thing there's going to be a mandatory graduation because it always depends on which indicator you choose. Yes, the Prime Minister is right, in absolute terms, spending on science and research against 2016. Yes, my colleagues, as Professor Svoboda, are right because, relative to GDP, expenditure on science and research is not close to 2013. Both statements are true and it is up to us which statistics we want to accentate. The government logically accentuates the comparison with last year, the opposition logically accentuates the comparison with 2013. If we were close to 1% of GDP, it would be 15,5 billion somewhere if I came out of the Ministry of Finance's figure, as estimated by GDP for this year. And it is not good news for the Czech Republic. I think that much more important is the GDP indicator. Because at the moment the economy grows, we raise it in absolute terms, but relatively, that means ratioically, it falls, it means only one thing - it has a lower priority for the government than other expenditures. We've already talked here about total spending going up 130 billion. Against 2013. That's 1.5 billion. for investments and 135 billion. Something else. And unfortunately, it's not science, research and innovation. That's one thing that could be supported, and that amount is pointless high, we all know that if it was written there, it couldn't really be invested next year. I'm just pointing out on these two examples how the words with numbers and facts pass. Unfortunately, government priorities are different than investment and spending on science, research and innovation. I know the odds are rather small, but I think the proposal to return the government to work out deserves support. And I am really looking forward to perhaps the last meeting of this parliamentary term in September next year, when we will have the results of the state's management in eight months, and we can quite certainly predict whether next year's deficit will be 60 billion or less, and who was right in the debates. And we also wish, as an opposition, that next year in terms of capital spending and investment, it would be much better than this year. I am not surprised that we will be in the middle of our term of office, and that is quite small in money exhaustion. It is such an evergreen, the rules of both Brussels and ours are quite complex and it is actually similar to the situation in around 2010 when we take the programming period 2007-2013. And once again, the firefighters come, the rescuers come back, who in 2020, 2021 and 2022 will be saving 80, the Minister of the Environment 100 billion, the Minister of Transport 50, and they'll be saving it. Instead of abandoning this fake optics, they wondered why we had so many soft projects, whether it was the right thing for the Czech economy and the Czech Republic, and whether the hard investment projects were the right thing to do and whether they were effective. This is a much more important debate than whether we've exhausted 10 or 11 percent, or 9. And we should turn our debate and our attention to the efficiency of spending. I'll repeat myself, I've said it about three or four times, we're not preparing for this programming period. It's the last time. So even this, next or next government will be saving European billions, but from 2023 it will be almost nothing to save. And, for example, transport infrastructure spending is going to fall, maybe in half. The solution should be gradual in replacing these European funds, because the jump solution will either be painful for infrastructure users, or investment and money will fall dramatically to repair and maintain transport infrastructure. Nothing in between. I have repeatedly called on the Minister of Transport to launch a debate that we cannot even end in this parliamentary term. Until we agree on basic principles, as it will be from 2023 in the transport infrastructure, it will be too late. And this debate is not gonna be easy, it's gonna be complicated and it's gonna take a long time. Because there is no easy solution in this area. On several numbers and on selected parameters, I showed you that the budget is really pre-election. It's quite logical. I'm not criticizing it too much. And I'll end up with a note. The Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš is very often considered to be the strongest policy in the Czech Republic today according to various surveys, comments here from rounds. I don't think he's heard it for the first time or the last time. If that were true and if he really wanted a balanced budget, he would have put it through. 60 billion. The deficit is a demonstration of the weakness of the Minister of Finance in our economic situation!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u37	Thank you, Prime Minister. President of the TOP 09 and Mayors František Laudát. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u38	Thank you for the floor. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. What bothers me most about this budget when the economic boom is about to be added to teachers and executive files, soldiers, police and so on, but what bothers me, and it has already been said many times, the Prime Minister boasts, but the truth is the opposite, and that is that this government cannot invest, is unable to invest, and apparently does not know what is going on. Very often Czech citizens ask why they do not have wages like the Němec do when they work as intensively as they do, they put the same physical effort into it. The Economic Committee was in Bavaria the week before last. We visited really top workplaces that organise coordination and liaison between science, research, development, innovation and so on. I'm warning you, if you look at their optics, what's going on there, our budget, Prime Minister, you're not going to meet these innovations, this modern society, this rich society, but you're sending the whole company through the budget in exactly the opposite direction. Unfortunately, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government is not qualified on this matter; he is obviously not going to catch up by the end of the parliamentary term. We're probably going to try to re-enact some legislative initiative here, for nothing but some coalition minions you killed an attempt on the novel of the 100th, which was attended by surprisingly by the tops and members of the ANO movement. [[17.10 hours]] You have killed for nothing, and thus you have also put to death a relatively unique attempt to move this area somewhere. I would recommend that you all get on the bus, members of the government, and go to Bavaria to look at the workplaces. As far as transport is concerned, this is a very sad chapter. This period, despite the Vice Prime Minister's statement here, is likely to be the worst since the start of construction of the motorway network in former Czechoslovakia and then the Czech Republic, which started in 1970, because when I take this period, from the rough numbers in 2014, it was a finishing machine, it was mentioned 7.3 km from Hrádek nad Nisou on the state border, it is the move of Liberec-Žitava. A year later, the strange construction was introduced, i.e. on Karlovarska, today D6, 4.1 km, and this year, if it goes down to the Elbe from the slopes of Central Mountains, then open about 12.5 km D8, so the sumarum sumarum sumarum will be some less than 25 km. 25 km was suddenly opened in June 2013 by highway, two sections of D3 between Tábor and Veselí nad Lužnicí. So just so we can figure out how you're finally investing in the freeway. The matrix is actually created here, because the same structures are still being applied as it's being set up, as it starts, but somehow it has no endings, and the completed highways are missing. Another attractive map ran out in your media today, as the Czech Republic will be one big construction site. But the reality is exactly the opposite, and the figures of the construction industry are very clear. In such an economic breakup over the past months over the summer, the year-on-year decline in construction production was 13.5%, and now you're cheering that it dropped to 6.5 percent. This is really the result minus 6.5 percent. Engineering activities dramatically fell by almost half, 43 percent year on year. So the numbers from that sector are absolutely clear. I believe that the public should already have the right to the truth about what is really going on in this resort. And that you have surpluses. After all, find them from official sources, as the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure has not exhausted its two key investors, namely the Road and Motorway Directorate and SŽDC, railway structures, how they have not exhausted the billions in the last year, and they are being transferred. So you're still hawking the surpluses, but this country and the citizens are killing each other on the asphalted field roads that have been drawn for c. and k. Austria. That's the real reality. Three years, and who knows how it would have turned out if we hadn't pushed this place and demanded an urgent amendment to the building bill and the EIA amendment, that's what the House resolution is for. You weren't here, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, so I don't think we're gonna be able to see any more laws at this time, and we're gonna support it, so we're not gonna see it in about four years. That's the real face of this republic. And I urge you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, that it is not here again that you really stop pushing the economy of the last century for the rest of this term and really direct the Czech Republic towards technological, modern, innovative companies. You haven't done anything yet, and you're putting less money on it, there's a worse situation than it was during the crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u39	Thank you. Mr Michal Kučera also joined the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Not anymore, it's over. That was the last one entered into the debate so far. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. If no one else is to be heard in the general debate, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for the Minister's final word. The Minister is interested. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u40	So, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would probably start with President Stanjura through the President. I don't know, aren't you happy that the result is always amazing? I'm happy you predicted it. I look forward to having a balanced budget. The debate here is that if we were planning a surplus budget or a balanced budget, you'd say it's surplus, and if it was a surplus 100 billion, you'd call it 200 billion, so it's kind of a weird debate. So, yes, we haven't had deficits since our government started. And I'm so excited because at the firm, and especially the family company, when you're planning a loss and then you're lower, everybody's happy. And I'm looking forward to it, too. I'm so excited that if we end up in surplus this year, it's gonna be awesome and we're gonna celebrate. So in 2014, it was 112 billion, we ended 77, in 2015, 100 billion, we ended 62,8. Isn't that amazing? That we're not losing money? That's amazing. And this year we're minus 70, and if we're at zero, that's pretty cool. And we're reducing the debt. Well, what more do you want? Mr. Laudát asks where we're going. Well, we are heading to the top of Europe in debt. One of the lowest. And the deficit, too. I wish we could make it to the top five. So, Mr President, through Mr President, the growth was not like that. Who made that growth two fourteen? Why did we grow three times bigger than Germany? All macros. They always said Germany is growing, we are growing. And it's interesting that we've grown about three times more, or 2.5 times more. But why? Because when we boarded, the European funds were threatened by 90 billion. And we didn't have the Civil Service Act. Brusel said you don't have a law, there won't be any drawing. So I think we've done a great job as a government, we've reduced the $90 billion at risk to some 22. And it was really the crisis management of the family company. Then there's the debate about the constructions. I do not know why we say that if we do not have European funds, we will not build? You're all talking about building. And why didn't you build that basic motorway network by 2000? Before the regions came into existence? They're throwing a pitchfork like South Moravian into it, he hasn't made a development plan in eight years, so Tok can't build Brno-Vienna. And before we joined the European Union, which gives us the great EIA here? Nexen's investment is worth it because some two environmental terrorists are blackmailing them. It was supposed to be the largest rubber processing plant in Central Europe. For example. So, of course, we have to build it and finish it, but the difference between you and us is that I clearly said that there is no way Minister Ťok would have any construction prepared, that there would be no money for it, just like you did. That's why we inherited 560 km of highways and roads, 119 projects worth 260 billion that weren't made of the past because there was no money. And why wasn't there money? I don't know. It's like it's fun to listen to you that money, money. You're doing everything against the state having money. You were against the inspection report that works, and it works perfectly, and against the EET of course. So I really don't know what we're talking about. And we never said we'd strangle the investments. We started the growth, we did the 4.5 percent. That was our growth. [[17.20 hours]] So I'd like something on the mantra right now. Former Minister Kalousek, through the President, is still talking about the structural deficit. So I would like to turn against the criticism, because we are still being criticized for having a poor structural balance. Let's go back to the past and let's say the results in the period 2007-9 and then 2011-13. 2007 and 2008 are examples of irresponsible management. At this time, the economy was growing dynamically. In 2007 the growth was 5.5 % and 2.7 % in 2008. This is where the numbers went down today. Growth, please, next year is predicted to be 2.2 and this year to 2.4. So try using the right numbers. So then - 2007, 2008 - was the growth of 5.5 and 2.7 and our economy was at the top of the cycle, but the structural deficits were high. It was 1.8 % and 3.4 % of GDP. Even then, the Czech Republic was obliged to maintain structural deficits at the maximum level of the medium-term budgetary objective, i.e. below 1% of GDP. The deterioration in 2009 can be understood and recognised, but due to the dislodgement of pre-crisis fiscal policy, the level of the structural balance at that time was absurdly high and the constant appeal to the crisis would not stand. The fierce efforts to return to the medium-term budgetary objective since 2010 have been one of the main causes of the economic recession in 2012-13. This consolidation took place, among other things. significant cuts in the area of investment and the problematic drawdown of European funds. Although there has been a significant improvement in the structural balance, at what cost? If the then Minister of Finance had achieved at least a medium-term budgetary objective in 2008, consolidation could have been much lower. The Greek script had never had to be overstretched and cut to such an extent to the elderly or in investments, and some 14,000 people did not have to lose their jobs. By comparing these results with the current government, fiscal policy finally works as it should. Not only is the medium-term budgetary objective met in each year, but the structural deficit is constantly decreasing and is in the tenths of percent of GDP. In 2014, the result was less than 1,1 % of GDP, even less than 0,8 percent of GDP according to the European Commission's methodology, and in 2015, the structural balance reached minus 0,6 % of GDP and the latest estimate for 2016 is minus 0.4 % of GDP. The criticism of the draft State budget for 2017 in terms of the structural balance is, by definition, not justified. The comparison of the structural balance's values between the current year and the financial year is misleading. The estimate of the current year is based on expectations based on eight months' worth of facts, while the data for 2017 are based on the proposed budget. It should be stressed that the budget is designed as an unbreakable plan. I believe that 2016 will definitely end even better than the previous very successful year. As a result of the planned reduction of the state budget deficit, the results of the management will further improve. Public finance is not just about deficit. Debt must also be noticed. Government sector debt decreased by more than 4.5 percentage points in 2014 and 2015 from record-breaking almost 45 percent of GDP in 2013. This year we expect a further decline of almost two percentage points. The primary credit for this development was the state debt, which thanks to the more efficient management of availability, the liquidity of the state managed to reduce by 23 billion over the same period. CZK, and thus we have also achieved significant savings of interest expenditure on government debt management. Yes, folks, we've saved 17 billion in our reign. koruna to service the state debt. In 2017, state debt is expected to be stabilised at worst in terms of GDP, which does not exceed 35.5 %. So if we're talking about a structural deficit, I have a table here... Mr Kalousek always talks only about the structural deficit. And do you know who is one of the best states in terms of structural deficit in Europe? Wonder the world, Greece! Greece in fourth place. That's great, isn't it? But speaking of structural deficits, we're supposed to talk about debt. And Greece isn't so well there anymore. So if we take this table, who has the best structural deficit? [[shows]] Luxembourg, Cyprus, Estonia, Germany, Austria, Greece. We're the seventh. We are better than the Netherlands, Italy, Portugal, France, etc., but if we add the debt to it, then we are the third best in Europe, and we are ahead of us - Luxembourg and Estonia. And we're the third. So this is a structural deficit! And not to take it out of context. So I'd really like that if we could remember what it's about. I would like to comment further - I was very entertained by Mr. Kučera's performance. Mr Kučera, through Mr President, should actually realise what a deficit is and what a debt is. Those are totally different categories. So we're not borrowing 60 billion. We'll borrow about 300 billion next year. And we're borrowing as a family company -- conveniently. So, for example, on October 19, 2016, we borrowed 8 billion. for minus 0.558 and we made 123.5 miles per shot. Crowns. We borrowed 6.22 billion today. Kroner for minus 0.608 percent. We made some money, too. We've already made 600 miles this year. Because we run it like family finances. And since last year, we've borrowed 205 billion. for zero or negative interest. And we made more than a billion on that. And that's our portfolio in terms of loan bonds, and once again, I'm going to say that we're borrowing and somebody's going to give us money for it, so he's going to loan us and he's going to pay us - that's amazing! - so the share of total debt is 12.3% from zero. We started in August 2015 and today we have a 12.3% share -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u41	I am very sorry, Minister, but I ask the House for peace. We're discussing the bill on the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u42	We've saved 10.7 billion this year on government debt service. Crowns. Someone's been criticizing budgetary measures. Yes, that was the savings of the Treasury chapter, but the government decided where the money went. That is why we were able to increase the salaries of teachers from 1 September and other civil servants from 1 November and Minister Ťok received 3 billion. and Minister Šlechtová and firefighters, etc. and colleges. Madam Secretary Valachová got the 700 million we saved, and the government decided on it. So if Mr Kučera, through Mr President, says that I am an incompetent manager, then I would probably leave it to the people, so let him consider it. Just as the debate was - Mr Stanjura, through the President, said I was a weak minister. I guess so. When we have six ministers and I was overruled by the government to increase science and research. That was 3.7 billion. That was the hundred for the old people. And someone here is talking about GDP and that there's not enough for science and research? Originally, you know well that spending frameworks weren't this high, they were significantly lower. So science and research got the most. And I had an opinion on state insurance, too, but we're in a coalition, so I accepted it. Yes, I agree that I am a weak minister, that I do not have the power to vote over the government, but okay, it's a situation. [[17.30 hours]] I'd like to invest now, please. I've read this before, but of course you're pulling it out of context. I'd just repeat the transport infrastructure expenses. In 2013, it was 49.2 billion. In 2014, when we inherited the budget and started in February, it was 52.2 billion. And in 2015, 91.4 billion. Only railroads increased their budget in 2014 from 25 billion. 50 billion. So, of course, when you compare 2017 to 2016, I can compare 2013. 2013 was 49. The reality of 2015 was 92 billion, so it's an increase, I don't know how much, 80 percent. And the approved budget of 2016 is 65 billion. And the budget of 2017 is 82 billion. So 82 billion. versus 49 billion. Then don't say we're not investing. [[He's pointing.]] That's not true. And it's not my fault the state is planning to invest like this. It's incredible how it works. This means that in 2015, the approved state budget was 75,8 billion. And the final budget was 246. And the reality was 165 billion. That's how the state plans it. No, that's the methodology. Well, that's what you've been planning since the revolution, that's the methodology. For a businessman, from a family company, it's abnormal. But I can't change it. So, of course, you're pulling it out of context, and you're saying, there's a low plan. Yeah, it's a low plan. But the performance will be considerably higher. And don't tell me we didn't invest. How much did the 2013 investment end? 102.3 billion. And 2015 it was 175,7 billion. So the difference is what? No 73.4 billion. Plus! Then don't say we're not investing. We're investing! And we made it clear that there would be money for all investments. A colleague of mine, Semelová, spoke of schools. Yes, as a member of the Budget Committee, I was surprised that the state found out that there were new satellites around Prague and that there were young people living there and even children. Well, they've taken a lot of chances! Someone just forgot about school. In June 2014, the Ministry of Finance, which has no competence at all, opened a programme for the construction of regional schools. So far, it's pumping 90 municipalities, and it's 3 billion. And I also said there'll always be money. We are also working with Minister Valachová on a new project of major schools around Prague. That's where more money is allocated about one billion. So don't say we don't invest when we invest. We're investing, but we inherited something here, yes. And we have laws. And of course, we're waiting for the most important law on the agenda today. But I fundamentally refuse not to invest. I think we can actually prove it with numbers. From other debaters... I was surprised by Mr. Opálka's rhetoric. It reminds me of the rhetoric of the opposition at the beginning of this House. I don't know if these are any conclusions from the regional elections. But I know employees are worth it. That's the most valuable thing a businessman has. Because at the family company, that's the family. That's where the businessman appreciates the employees. He takes care of them. I know it well. The fact that we have 388,000 unemployed - why do we have them? How many of them work black? How many of them take so much that it doesn't pay to go to work? And why are our companies limiting production? Why do we have strange practices in authorising work permits in Ukraine and Vietnam? How many companies tell me that. Ukrainian Šičky is looking forward to working in the Czech Republic, but they can't because it's some weird system. But that's what we're dealing with within the government, and hopefully we'll figure it out, because the employment authorities here have nothing to offer. The prisoners here are great labor. Even in Mosteck, I was in companies where the employment office had nothing to offer. And they like the companies that prisoners go and work there. So I'm sure we're dealing with this. Mr. Vilímec here was talking about VAT. I don't know where he goes to those numbers. I'd just like to remind you that we're all tax people. Although, of course, self-government always says they're separate. Yes, they're separate. But they live off everyone's taxes and European money. It's two incomes that divide. And, of course, we have adjusted the budgetary determination of taxes for the regions. And the county got 3.7 billion. extra. And the VAT plan for 2016 - budget is 352,6 billion. And in 2015, it was 321,6 billion. There is, of course, a debate at all - we are critical of how the balance is planned, President Stanjur, through the President. Well, how do we plan on European money? No fucking zero. So who's going to estimate it exactly? But look at how we plan to collect taxes, and there you'll see that my colleagues have a maximum spread of 1 to 2 percent. So they're planning it exactly. They're really planning it. And European money? Yes, of course. The new programming period. We got in and there was 90 miles. Endangered, and that's what we wanted to exhaust to the max. Minister Took's invoicing in December 2015 was 24 billion. in one month. And I reckon there's going to be a big billing now, too, and we're going to implement the VAT plan, which is ambitious because of the inspection report. I'd love for us to remember the beginnings of how we came here. Endangered funds, there was no law. The legacy of the Czech Export Bank will cost us 18,6 billion. for our government. It is what colleagues call it - export support. That's no export support. This is our predecessors' money in the Czech Export Bank! Those catastrophic loans we can't get. That's it. So let's know how we started, what we did. I understand you criticize everything. But I certainly don't think we're the socialist government, as my colleague Karamazov said here. President Filip here has appealed that we should raise taxes. And why should we raise taxes? Who here did what to collect taxes? Who! Who here brought tax Cobra and control reports and proof of the origin of property and EET and the new gambling law and central register of accounts that you wanted and did not complete etc.? And it works. We've reduced taxes. We've abolished the tax for working pensioners. We put in kindergarten. We've reduced taxes three times for working parents. And that cost us 22.5 billion. So why should we raise taxes when I think we should set up the system to collect them first? And, of course, the next House elections, each party will put their tax agenda on the agenda. But I think our government is making changes that no one here has made. And of course it has an impact on the business sphere. But I think the sensible businessmen who see that money is actually collected and then used for good things. [[17.40 hours]] There's a bunch of numbers coming out today about how many new employees we took. I think Mr. Kalousek spoke 30,000. Then there was a number. It's 23,000. It's not 30, it's not 27, it's 23. And the vast majority are educators, yes, about 11,000 of them, and 5,000 soldiers, and I mean 2.5,000 policemen. We also had to strengthen the financial office. You have created Prague here - a tax haven. This is where she used to check in every 200 years. So we have to have some people to control the new measures we're trying to implement. I think it's logical. And I'm not saying there's no savings. I'm sure there's savings. And that is, of course, up to every minister. There's a headline in Hospodářské noviny today about how many people have left the ministry. Yes, I've rationalized the Ministry. By the way, there's not a single member of the movement, they're not allowed in. And today, it's a great team at the ministry with results. He's got results. And we need to strengthen the Financial Administration and the Customs Administration, because they are the ones who are fighting tax fraud, and I think it works successfully, and that's why it works. So I'd really like to actually use the right numbers, the right information, and talk about it objectively. But I agree that 60 billion - but even in those companies - are planned somehow. Every manager wants everything nice. And that's the same relationship. So I don't see anything wrong with it, the result is important. How is the Czech Republic evaluated? Well, based on the results. And if we have a balanced budget and a surplus, well, we'll have a great result and we'll be evaluated accordingly. And now all the agencies have confirmed our rating. He says we're the premier of Eastern Europe. Yes, it's working. Someone here set an example for Slovakia. But let's talk about everything, not just growth. Growth isn't everything. It's all about money and it's about cash flow and deficit and debt. So public budgets of regions, municipalities and cities are also doing well. They're at 30. 9. plus 56,7 billion. And they have a fall in investment. But the start of the new programming period, we didn't cause it, and the European Commission was late. That wasn't our problem, and they have a $28,6 billion drop in investment, logically. 43 % compared to 2015. And they have tax revenue growth plus 16.1 billion. And balances on the accounts 156 billion - regions, municipalities, cities. And 105 debts. But they don't have cash pool like family companies do. That's too bad. We could do that, and then we would be the absolute top of Europe. That would be even lower for the debt-to-GDP ratio. But, of course, when they have long-term loans and they have money in their accounts, they're waiting and they're obviously going to invest. So I really don't think that budget is wasteful. The pensions are low, that's objective. Yes, I would like pensions to be considerably higher. I think we're trying. We gave 205, 140, 308. Yes, we need to think about whether this percentage increase really is correct and whether or not to change the system in some way. But of course, different experts have different opinions about it. And the salaries? Yes, they're low. It's low wages. Yes. I'm sorry. But today, those salaries are going up because there's a market. And today, companies, of course, are fighting over the employees. So is this fellow Opálka talking about sucking... or what he said? Giving out dividends. Excuse me, what dividend? We have thousands of foreign investors who come here and do business here, pay taxes - and I agree with you, why didn't the Financial Administration check it out before I got here? The basics of the tax, the optimizations that their mothers optimize and bill fig and such advertising etc. And we were focused on that. And the result is - in six months of taxing 800 million crowns of large companies. That's more than the last five years. So we chase taxes everywhere. The big ones, of course, but it's hard to tell them when they come to our place to do business, that we're going to tax them dividends now. I don't think so. How many dividends have gone out of our country in the last ten years? $1,920 billion. And how much did it come in? 85. Why do Czech entrepreneurs have companies in Holland and Cyprus? And do you know how many of those 85 came from my firm? 25 billion in ten years. That's the improvement in the management you criticized. From Germany and Slovakia 85 billion for ten years all Czech companies, to be clear about who is doing the business. How many of these 15,000 offshores are behind this businessmen, or maybe even politicians? I don't know. So that's the stuff, and I don't think we're gonna say it now, that we're gonna tax you from the 260 billion now. I guess then no one would come to us. 90% of investors are from the European Union. We are part of the European Union and I think that is a good thing. So that's what this is about, and it would be good for us to actually name it as it is. I think the budget is good. I'm sure we've done the best we can. The Ministry of Education got 14.5 billion extra, everybody got. Sports and so forth. But I'm sure I'll be glad, and I'll be very happy to hear the words of my colleague Stanjura that he'll be balanced again. It's gonna be a big party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u43	That was the final word of the Minister of Finance. I ask the rapporteur if he is interested in the final word. The rapporteur is not interested in the final word. We can therefore proceed to the vote. I'd like the sněmovna to rest. We are at the end of the first reading of the State Budget Act, which is a very important moment. I remind you, and the rapporteur has certainly been following this all along, that during the debate, a proposal has fallen which is admissible under the Rules of Procedure Act, namely the proposal by Mr Miroslav Kalousek, who proposes to return the draft State Budget Act to the Government for recasting and within 20 days, reducing expenditure by 30 billion and reducing the balance by CZK 30 billion. According to the Rules of Procedure Act, the term of 20 days is accurate, so it is a voteable proposal. The rapporteur, isn't it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u44	Yes. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. An amendment has been tabled by Mr Kalousek. Basically, I don't know if I should read it again, but you said exactly what it contains.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u45	I'll check you all out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. I think we need to find out, on such an important point, the precise participation of Members and Members in the House. We'll decide on the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u46	Mr Vice-President, I apologize for bringing you into this. Perhaps it would be worth reading the amendment again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u47	Mr rapporteur, this is not only your right, it is your duty. Please make the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u48	The motion for a resolution tabled by my colleague - I am sorry, the motion for a resolution. [[An agreement between Members off the microphone.]] We've got this all figured out, colleague. The motion for a resolution passed on by Mr Kalousek is: "The Chamber of Deputies returns the draft law on the state budget to the Government with the following recommendation: firstly, the expenditure is reduced by at least CZK 30 billion, secondly, by the same amount by reducing the balance, thirdly, by 20 days."
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u49	We will decide in the 215 vote that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 215. Of the 163 Members present for 39, versus 122. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u50	I have already read the proposal in my intelligence report. I don't know if I should repeat it again, but everyone has it as a press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u51	I think it's better for him to be presented. After all, this is a very important bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u52	Okay. The Chamber of Deputies approves the basic data of the draft law on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2017 according to the House of Press 921, which is the amount of revenue determined by the amount of CZK 1 249 272 037 180, the amount of expenditure fixed by the amount of CZK 1 309 272 037 180, the difference between income and expenditure, the balance, is therefore 60 billion. Kč. The method of settlement of the balance by these financing items a) increase in the state bond status up to CZK 60 403 400 000. By changing the state financial assets accounts, by increasing by CZK 403 400,000. The financial relations of the state budget to the budgets of the regions, the financial relations of the state budget to the budgets of the municipalities, the financial relationship of the state budget to the budget hl. m. Prague, authorisation of the Minister of Finance in § 2 para. One, two, three. The Chamber of Deputies notes that the draft State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2017 (a) contains financial relations to the budget of the European Union, expressed numerically, (b) determines the extent of the insurance capacity of the Export Guarantee and Insurance Company, expressed numerically. The Chamber of Deputies commands the various chapters and headings of the Government's draft State Budget for 2017 by Committees to be discussed, in turn, which chapter will be discussed by committee. So much for the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-008-001.u53	Thank you. I think that is clear to all according to a specific resolution of the Committee on Budgets. We will decide in the vote order number 216, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 216 from the present 165 for 95, against 67. The motion was accepted. I note that the resolution has been approved. We have approved the basic numbers of the state budget. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and finish item number 1 of our 50th meeting. Before we go any further, there has been an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies and one annulment. From 17.45 a.m. to the end of the day, Mr Herbert Pavera apologises and Mrs Rutová cancels her apology from 15 a.m. So many more procedural matters, and we can continue. The next item is:
