ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-018-011.u1	11. Government bill amending Act No. 284/2009 Sb., on payment services, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 745/ - second reading This proposal, under the authority of the Government, will be presented by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Please, Vice-President, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-018-011.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, may I briefly present to you the Government's bill amending Act No. 284/2009 Coll., on Payment, as amended, and other related laws. This draft law implements the European Directive on Payment Accounts and the European Regulation on interbank fees for card transactions. The bill brings several important changes that strengthen the consumer's position in the payment services market. When concluding the contract, consumers will receive a standardised document stating the fees required by the bank in relation to the payment account. With this document, clients will be more easily able to compare individual offers. Every year, consumers will receive an overview of all the fees paid to their bank in connection with the payment account for the previous year. Banks will be obliged to use uniform terminology in their tariff and business terms, which will facilitate customer orientation. There will be rules on the operation of websites that compare payment account fees. Consumers will be able to easily transfer an account to another bank, while maintaining the setting of permanent orders and direct debits. The aim is for consumers to simply change the bank if they receive a better offer in another bank. Another change will be the obligation of banks to offer so-called a basic payment account at an appropriate price. Each consumer residing legally in the European Union, irrespective of nationality, residence, minimum income or other restrictive conditions, shall be entitled to the basic payment account. The draft law envisages that the adequacy of the price for the basic payment account will be assessed on the basis of the content of the specific account, in particular with regard to the normal market price. Another reason for the amendment is to adapt the Czech legal order to the European regulation on interbank charges. This Regulation lays down the maximum permissible amount so-called interbank charges and certain other obligations in connection with the execution of card transactions. The regulation is directly effective, the bill only sets fines for its infringement and determines the competent supervisory authorities, which are the Czech National Bank, the Czech Trade Inspection Authority and the Office for the Protection of Competition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-018-011.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as House prints 745/1 and 2. I now ask the rapporteur of the budget committee, Mr Adolf Beznoska, to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in this committee and of any possible amendments. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-018-011.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Committee on Budgets discussed this draft law at its 43rd meeting on 9 June 2016 and adopted a rather extensive amendment which I would like to present, which you got on your tables. With permission, I would not quote all the amendments that are mentioned there, virtually. Citation from the budget committee resolution, I would rather focus on telling you why and what this amendment contains. Firstly, given the complexity and the cost of card transaction disputes, it is proposed that these disputes between businessmen be settled within the framework of a standard arbitration procedure. In this context, the right of each entrepreneur to require the bank to conclude an arbitration clause so that it can resolve any disputes with the bank in the arbitration procedure. Second comment from the Budget Committee. The financial arbiter would continue to resolve only disputes between the bank and the consumer, which is consistent with the existing concept of the Act on the financial arbiter. At the same time, it is proposed to extend the power of the financial arbitrary to disputes arising from the conduct of a non-payment account and the one-off deposit agreement provided for in the Civil Code. According to the current text, the financial arbitrator is not responsible for their decision, although there is no factual reason for this, and consumer protection should also be ensured for these financial products. Furthermore, the proposal concerns the implementation of a technical amendment concerning a change in the payment account to ensure greater protection of clients' privacy when transferring to another bank. In the last part, the amendment concerns the length of the legislative process. The proposal proposes to postpone the effectiveness of the part of the Act relating to payment accounts of 18 September 2016 as it was in the material on the first day of the third calendar month following the date of publication of the Act. The Ministry of Finance also commented on this amendment, which was adopted by the Committee on Budgets, and agreed with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-018-011.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate which I do not register any application for. If no one is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for final words. Not interested. I am opening a detailed debate. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-018-011.u6	Just very briefly. I would remind you that there is an amendment to the budget committee in the system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-07-ps2013-049-02-018-011.u7	Thank you. If no one else reports for a detailed debate, I will conclude the detailed debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. There is no interest, and since I do not see proposals to return or shorten the deadline, I end second reading of this bill. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next point in our negotiations is
