ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-002-001.u1	1. Government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2017 /German press 921/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš will make the proposal. Please, Vice-President, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-002-001.u2	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me present to you the draft law on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2017, which was approved by the Government on 21 September 2016, and discussed by the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament on 12 October 2016. The basic data submitted by the draft State Budget Act for 2017 are presented in the following form: state budget revenue 1249.3 billion. CZK, state budget expenditure 1309,3 billion. Crowns. The balance of the state budget minus 60 billion, which is 10 billion. CZK less than the approved deficit for 2016. In 2017, the general government balance is expected to be up to minus 0,5 percent of GDP in the ESA 2010 methodology. Even in 2018 and 2019, the deficit of the general government sector should not exceed 0,5 percent of GDP, taking into account government measures for the development of the national economy. The fiscal policy of this government should be a stabilizing element of economic development. Therefore, the draft State Budget for 2017 is designed to ensure that the structural deficit of the general government sector is fully consistent with the medium-term budgetary objective for the Czech Republic. This is a structural deficit of 1% of GDP, which guarantees that, even at the normal depth of the economic recession that we do not expect, the value of the Maastricht convergence criterion and the Stability and Growth Pact criteria will not be exceeded for the general government deficit. I consider the implementation of the medium-term budgetary objective as a prerequisite for a prudent fiscal policy that guarantees a potential macroeconomic stabilisation role. And it must be stressed that this government has fulfilled its medium-term budgetary objective in every year of its governance, unlike the previous governments. Let me also stress that comparing the specific values of the structural balance between the current year and the financial year is quite misleading. The estimate of the current year is based on an expectation of nine months, while the data for 2017 are based on a proposed budget with an approved deficit of 60 billion. Crowns. It must be stressed that the budget is designed as an unbreakable plan, and I believe that its current implementation will be better, as was the case last year and will be this year, as confirmed by the current data. In 2017, we also expect a relative stabilization of the share of state debt in GDP at the end of 2016, which is 35.5 %, which will continue to contribute to the positive perception of the Czech Republic by investors, thereby saving interest expenditure on government debt service. The expected stabilization of state debt in 2017 will be shown in a positive way along with the surplus management of local authorities, as well as in stabilization of public budget debt. The medium-term expenditure framework of the State Budget and State Funds for 2017 newly established in the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament on 8 September 2016 on which the draft State Budget for 2017 was based is respected. Now let me introduce you to the basic macroeconomic characteristics of the draft state budget for next year. The macroeconomic framework of the draft State budget for 2017 was drawn up on the basis of data and information known until mid-August of this year. The Czech economy is doing very well, its performance continued in growth during the first half of this year mainly due to consumption and foreign trade. Further maintenance and growth intensity will depend on both internal and external factors. Outside our economy, the stability and economic development of trading partners is most important. In the domestic field, this means adequate economic policies that respect the position of the economy in the economic cycle. The world economy continues to grow well. Emerging economies should continue to show higher growth rates than advanced economies. Within this group of countries, growth should be driven mainly by the US economy, but the eurozone and Japan will grow the slowest. China's economy is slowing down, gradually transforming the structure of the economy from commodity-intensive large-scale production to services and more knowledge-intensive industries. Developments in China and excessive production of energy commodities have resulted in a significant drop in oil prices, culminating at the beginning of this year. However, during 2016, these factors are starting to wear out and the price of Brent oil is currently trading slightly below $50 per barrel. Economic growth in the euro area remains slow. There is considerable differentiation in the development of individual countries. However, growth rates should be brought closer in the macroeconomic framework horizon. In many countries, economic growth is still hampering structural labour market problems, loss of competitiveness, low investment growth rates, and high government and private debt. But weak euro and low energy prices are beneficial for economic growth. The risk to the European economy is the departure of Great Britain from the European Union. [[11.10 hours]] The growth of the Czech economy in 2016 will slow down due to the removal of one-off factors in the form of enhanced investment activity as a result of the end of the financial perspective 2007 to 2013 and the gradual exhaustion of the annual effects of the decline in oil price. Real GDP growth should thus be 2,2 %. The main driver of growth should be the final consumption expenditure and the external trade balance. 2017 we expect renewed growth in investment activity, continued growth in consumption and slightly positive contribution of foreign trade to GDP. Real GDP growth should thus reach 2.4 percent. 2016 is under the influence of the year-on-year decline in oil prices and a number of non-oil raw materials. The impact of administrative measures on inflation will be almost neutral. The average inflation rate should therefore reach 0,5 per cent. In 2017, domestic demand, higher oil prices, and even above-average production capacity utilisation, should be acting pro-inflationaryly. The effect of regulated prices will be neutral. The increase in excise duties on tobacco products will be opposed to the reduction of food VAT in connection with the introduction of electronic sales records. The average inflation rate should rise to 1.2%. Together with the growth of the economy, we also expect further improvements in the labour market. In the context of economic growth, employment is expected to increase by 1.6% in 2016, with a clear labour shortage already being observed. As a result, employment should almost stagnate in 2017. We also expect positive developments in the area of unemployment. On the annual average, it should reach 4.1 % for 2016 and fall further to 4 percent in 2017, which is one of the lowest values in the international context. A slower improvement in the labour market in 2017 is linked to the position of the economy in the economic cycle and to the growing qualification and regional mismatch between supply and demand for work, which can be documented by the increasing number of job vacancies. The development of the current balance of payments account for the Czech economy poses no risks. Here we expect growth of both export markets and export performance. For this reason, we expect a surplus current account balance in 2016 and 2017. The Ministry of Finance continuously monitors the forecasts and opinions of institutions mainly from the private sphere and international institutions dealing with macroeconomic analysis and forecasting. On the basis of the comparison with these independent forecasts, it can be concluded that the macroeconomic framework of the draft State budget for 2017 is very close to the consensus macroeconomic forecasts based on the opinion of these institutions. In the context of Directive 2011/85/EU, on the requirements for budgetary documentation, the July macroeconomic forecast of the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic and thus the macroeconomic framework of the draft State Budget for 2017 was evaluated by independent macroeconomic experts. On a conservative - realistic - scale, overall assessments were realistic. I would now like to introduce you in more detail to some of the titles of the revenue pages of the state budget in the proposal for 2017. Revenue from taxes and charges is estimated at 675 billion. Crowns. Tax revenue for 2017 is increasing by 45.3 billion compared to the 2016 budget. Crowns. The simple tax quota, which includes only tax revenue from public budgets, amounts to 19.5%. The combined tax quota amounts to 34,3% of GDP. Tax revenue includes: Control reports, impact plus 8.2 billion. Crowns. Electronic sales log, impact plus 3 billion. Crowns. Reduction of the VAT rate for the segment of restaurant and hospitality services to 15 per cent instead of the current 21 per cent. EET impact minus 2.8 billion. CZK for the state budget. The introduction of a three-year programme to increase excise duty rates on tobacco products with an impact of plus 4.4 billion. Crowns. Adjustment of the mandatory formation of revaluation funds in the financial sector with an impact of less than 0,4 billion. Crowns. Increase of tax advantage to second and other children from 2017 with an impact of minus 0.9 billion. Crowns. The introduction of a new gambling tax to replace the current lottery levy is expected to amount to 4.2 billion. Crowns. With effect from 1 January 2017, the 30% share of the municipality's income tax on natural persons from the return is abolished and the share of municipalities in VAT is increased to 21,4%. The negative impact on the state budget is 2.1 billion. Crowns. Revenue from social security contributions and contributions to state employment policy is budgeted at 447,8 billion. CZK and represent a year-on-year increase of 25,8 billion against approved collections this year. CZK, that's 6.1%. Revenue from the EU budget and financial mechanisms shall be entered in the budget by 98 billion. Crowns. This is in particular revenue from the EU Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund for the implementation of the joint programmes of the European Union and the Czech Republic, and revenue for the implementation of the measures under the common agricultural policy. Compared to this year, there was an increase of 3.5 billion. Crowns. In the draft budget for 2017, budget revenues from state-owned enterprises are in the range of over 3 billion. CZK, in particular Forests of the Czech Republic, Budějovický Budvar and revenues from the privatisation account of CZK 14 540 000 000. Now let me give you a closer look at the state budget expenditure for 2017. Total expenditure for 2017 is proposed at 1 309,3 billion. Crowns. On the expenditure side of the budget is one of the most important expenditures monitored by the state budget. For 2017, they are budgeted at 725,3 billion. CZK and account for 55.4 percent of the total expenditure of the state budget. Among the most important mandatory expenditures are social mandatory expenditures, with the following limits: pension expenditures are budgeted at 416,5 billion. CZK by 4 % year-on-year growth compared to the expected reality of 2016. As of 1 January 2017, pensions will be valued at the maximum possible amount, i.e. by 2.7 %, which in absolute terms represents an increase of an average old-age pension of CZK 308 per month. Expenditure on sickness insurance benefits will continue to grow in connection with wage growth derived from them and the development of morbidity. The expected reality for 2016 is 26,6 billion. CZK, expenditure of CZK 27,5 billion is proposed for 2017. Crowns. For the payment of the State to the health insurance scheme, appropriations of 66,4 billion are budgeted. Crowns. The monthly payment for state insured persons to the public health insurance system will be CZK 920 per person per month. Expenditure on non-investment non-payment transfers shall be budgeted at a rate of 14,3 billion. Crowns. The cost of the care allowance has been assessed by 10 % and should reach 23,8 billion. Kroner, that's two billion. CZK more than in 2016. I would now like to mention some other major expenditure areas of the state budget. It's a pay-per-view area. Expenditure on salaries and other payments for the work carried out by budgeted bodies of the State and the contribution organisations shall be budgeted at 162 billion for 2017. CZK without accessories, which represents an increase of 12,9 billion. CZK compared to 2016. The budget also includes an increase of 8 per cent in the salaries of teaching staff in regional education, a tariff table of 6 per cent and a non-teaching staff of 5 per cent. Tariff tables of 4 per cent with an impact of 6.4 billion. Crowns. An increase of 5 per cent of additional civil servants' salaries, a tariff table of 4 per cent with an impact of 5 per cent. Crowns. A rise in the salaries of judges and prosecutors, an increase of 3,5 percent. Salary growth of other constitutional officials, an increase of 7.9 percent. Number of functional positions. In 2017, compared to this year's budget, it increased by 7 637, from which 4 568 is included in the organisational units of the state and 3 069 in the state contribution organizations. This year's increase is mainly due to an increase of 2 796 seats in regional education, 2 000 seats in the Czech Army concept, 543 seats in the chapter of the Ministry of Justice, of which 220 civil servants, tutors and 250 security guards in the Prison Service in connection with the continuing increase in the number of prisoners and planned enlargements in the field of employment. 200 seats to secure the Financial Administration's agenda in the area of property proof, control reports, administration of subsidies and to strengthen sales control departments. 364 seats Customs administrations to secure agendas associated with the extension of criminal competences and with the EET, the extension of competences in the field of control of the operation of gambling. 284 seats in the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, in particular on personnel reinforcement of the Czech Social Security Administration and the Office of Labour. 142 seats in the chapter of the Ministry of Industry and Trade for the organizational branches of SURAO, to strengthen capacities in the Czech Trade Inspection Authority, to strengthen capacity at the Czech Office for Testing of Weapons and Ammunition in connection with the agenda of the depreciation of certain firearms and to strengthen positions in the CzechInvest subsidiary organization. [[11.20 hours]] Expenditure on research, development and innovation is included in the amount of 40,2 billion. CZK including funds from the European Union. The share of these GDP expenditure for 2017 will reach 0,83% and grow by 12.4% compared to 2016. The expenditure of the Ministry of Defence chapter has increased by 4.7 billion. CZK versus 2016 and reach a total amount of CZK 52,5 billion. Kč. Export support expenditure is budgeted for a total of 5.4 billion. CZK, for the Czech Export Bank and EGAP. The State Budget's capital expenditure for 2017 has been increased by 25,2 billion. CZK 103.7 billion in total. Kč. The increase in expenditure relates in particular to the chapter of the Ministry of Transport by 8.3 billion. CZK, Ministry of the Environment by 7.3 billion. CZK, Ministry of Defence by 3.1 billion. CZK 2.2 billion, Ministry of Regional Development. CZK, Ministry of Agriculture by 1.6 and Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports by 2 billion. Education and sport expenditure is one of the government's priorities and therefore the expenditure of the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports has been increased by 14 billion compared to this year. CZK, this is by 9.9 % when counting expenditures covered by revenues from foreign sources. The total expenditure of this Chapter shall be 156,4 billion. Kč. Expenditure in the area of regional education was reinforced by CZK 600 million following the introduction of the compulsory final year of schooling and the expectations of increasing the number of children and pupils. For projects creating new teaching capacities for kindergartens and primary schools established by municipalities, especially in areas with long-term growth of children or pupils from new housing or primary schools established by associations of municipalities in localities with insufficient availability of pre-school and basic education, an increase in the budget of chapter MŠMT of CZK 300 million is determined. In support of sports activities, the budgeted total amount is 6 billion. CZK, of which in chapter MŠMT 5,690 billion. CZK 63 million in the chapter of the Minister of Interior and in the chapter of the Minister of Defence CZK 261 million. For 2017 it is proposed to increase expenditure for public universities 1.1 billion. Kč. An increase of CZK 750 million is intended to secure support measures and build a system of joint education. In the area of culture to finance the National Cultural Treasures Programme, the budget amount is CZK 1 billion, the budget amount is CZK 800 million for film incentives. The budget has been strengthened by investment in contribution organizations, the field of live art, the promotion of professional theatres, symphonic orchestras and choirs and cultural activities. The budget includes expenses under the property settlement law with churches and religious societies, namely a contribution to support the activities of churches of 1.3 billion. CZK and financial compensation of less than 2.1 billion. Kč. The area of transport. The subsidy for the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure is budgeted at 21.6 billion. CZK, for 2017 it comes from European Union budgets, which is 0.8 billion. CZK more than compared to the previous year. The total expenditure of the Fund shall be 49 billion. CZK, after counting funds from the European Union, the total expenditure of the Fund will be 68.5 billion. CZK, which means an increase of 7 billion. CZK compared to the approved budget for 2016. Expenditure to cover the loss of public service obligations in public rail passenger transport is budgeted at 7.4 billion. CZK 2.8 billion for the regions and capital of Prague in 2017. Kč. Expenditure on ESA space projects is budgeted at CZK 453 million. Defense and security. The expenditure of the Ministry of Defence chapter was increased by 4.7 billion. CZK 52,5 billion for the total amount. CZK for 2017. The share of these GDP expenditure should reach 1,08 per cent in 2017. Capital expenditure in the Ministry of the Interior and Security Information Services on security measures in the Czech Republic have been reinforced. Furthermore, spending on the financing of voluntary firefighters was reinforced by CZK 100 million. Industry. For 2017, subsidies for renewable energy sources are budgeted at 25.1 billion. CZK, that's 4.7 billion. CZK more than in 2016. Agriculture. Expenditure on the common agricultural policy is proposed for 2017 in the amount of 35,3 billion. CZK, while the largest item consists of direct payments with a volume of 23.2 billion. Kč. To support rural development, the budget amount is 11.4 billion. CZK, of which 4.4 billion. CZK represents state budget funds for co-financing and CZK 7 billion. CZK are state budget funds, which will subsequently be covered by income from the European Union. In the chapter of the Ministry of Environment, budget revenues from the sale of emission allowances are 5.6 billion. CZK and current expenditure, at half the amount of this budgeted volume. The second half is budgeted in the chapter of the Ministry of Industry and Trade to promote renewable energy sources. Municipalities and regions. The annualisation of the contributions to the performance of the state administration in the context of financial relations with the regions and municipalities amounts to 5% and takes into account the need for funds to perform the duties of public guardian. In the chapter General and Treasury Administration, funds are provided for the continuation of the sub-programme Support for the development and restoration of the material technical base of regional schools in the vicinity of large cities. For 2017, the budgeted amount is CZK 636 million in order to increase the capacity of basic nine-year schools in the scope and property of municipalities. The government budget reserve is designed to amount to 4.1 billion. CZK, that's 0.31 percent of the state budget expenditure. The expenditure of the government debt chapter for 2017 is proposed in the amount of 46,3 billion. Kč. At the end of 2017, state debt is expected to be at a maximum of 1 720 billion, the share of government debt in GDP at the end of 2017 should be 35.5 %. The draft Act on the State Budget for 2017 is the result of the consensus of coalition partners and aims to ensure government priorities, such as security, defence, raising pensions, increasing the salaries of staff in education and other sectors of public administration, increasing R&D spending, creating assumptions for drawing funds from European funds' budgets and increasing investment. The current budget follows the strategy of gradual deficit reduction, promotes growth in our economy and motivates consumption. I would still like to comment on so many critical investments. Capital expenditure for 2017 is budgeted at 103.7 billion. CZK and there is an increase of 25.2 billion compared to 2016. Kč. Annual growth occurs mainly in the chapter of the Ministry of Transport by 8.3 billion. CZK, Ministry of Environment 7,3, Ministry of Defence by 3.1, Regional Development 2.2, Ministry of Agriculture 1.6 and Education by 2. Compared to the State budget, 2015 there is an increase in budgeted capital expenditure of 27.9 billion. Kč. These comparable data, i.e. budgeted amounts, are rising by 36,8%. The fact of capital expenditure in 2015 was 175,8 billion. CZK and its amount were influenced mainly by the implementation of the European Union programmes for the 2007-2013 programming period, which can be considered as a one-off influence. As regards the 2016 drawdown, it can be assumed, according to the latest available data, that capital expenditure will exceed the budgeted amount, that is 78.5 billion. Kč. The pumping on 25 October 2016 is 60.5 billion. CZK, which is comparable to the level in 2013 and 2014 in the same period. I would also like to set a few other points straight on the frequently discussed issue of investment. Needless to say, it was this government that was responsible for starting the drawdown of projects from the European Union. We have therefore managed to spend around 50 per cent of the total allocation for the 2007-2013 programming period together in 2014 and 2015. Without this, there would be a catastrophic scenario where the Czech Republic would be tens of billions of crowns. And now I come to these investments. They account for approximately 70 per cent of the expenditure on projects co-financed by the European Union. Investments must also be considered as a whole as public finances, not just from the state budget. Total investment expenditure increased by almost 17 percent in 2014, with a record of 30.5% in 2015 and some still confuse with the year of exemplary economic and, above all, fiscal policies, by more than 52 percent in 2013. Therefore, it is clear that this year, compared to 2015, investment expenditure is expected to fall. It doesn't mean it's not invested. The level of government investment this year was at 2014 level and 2017 at which I present a draft state budget here today, I expect annual growth in the entire government sector by 6 percent, which is almost a quarter compared to 2013. So, at the end of my speech, I would like to ask the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to support the Government Bill on the State Budget for 2017 and to approve the basic data of the draft law at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-002-001.u3	Thank you, too, Minister. President of the Chamber of Deputies by decision No 54 has ordered the draft law to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets. The Committee on Budgets submitted a resolution delivered as House Press 921/1. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Václav Votava, take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-002-001.u4	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, allow me to introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on Budgets, which you have as press 921/1. It is the resolution of the Budget Committee of 12 October 2016 on the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic. The Committee on Budgets at the 47th meeting after the opening words of the Minister of Finance Babiš, the report by the Chairman of the Committee on Votava and after the debate I. recommends that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution on the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2017 at first reading: Chamber of Deputies I. approves the basic data of the draft law on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2017 according to the Chamber of Press 921, which are: A. Amount of revenue determined by amount of CZK 1 249 272 037 180 amount of expenditure fixed by amount 1 309 272 037 180 CZK difference between income and expenditure determined by amount - 60 000 000 000 CZK [[Balance]] B. Method of settlement of the balance by these financing items (a) increasing the state of government bonds up to CZK 60 403 400 000 b) change in state financial assets accounts by an increase of CZK 403 400,000 c. Financial relations between the State budget and regional budgets D. Financial relations of the State budget to municipal budgets E. Financial relationship of the state budget to the budget of the capital city of Prague F. Appointing the Minister for Finance in Section 2 (1) (b) 1, 2 and 3; II. notes that the draft state budget of the Czech Republic for 2017 (a) contains financial relations to the budget of the European Union - expressed numerically in the resolution (b) determine the extent of the insurance capacity of the Export Guarantee and Insurance Companies - also expressed numerically in the resolution; III. orders to discuss the chapter and headings of the government draft state budget of the Czech Republic - it is mentioned in the motion for a resolution which committee will discuss the chapters. I'm not reading. II. It empowers the rapporteur of the Votava Committee to introduce this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies, which I have also done. I'd just remind you of the notes. Today, of course, we approve the basic parameters, which means essentially the resolution that we have adopted, it is no longer possible to change the basic parameters in the next reading, so only to move funds between chapters. Therefore, if the basic parameters are approved, they are no longer variable for discussion. I would just like to remind you that we have a timetable set by the House of Deputies in order to discuss the state budget. To remind you, the committees are to discuss the ordered chapters by 16. 11. 2016, the Committee on Budgets will then discuss the various resolutions with the participation of the rapporteurs 23. 11. 2016. Second reading in the Chamber of Deputies on the draft State Budget Act is possible from 30. 11. 2016 and in the third reading, the Chamber of Deputies should discuss the draft law on the State Budget from 7. 12. 2016. So much for me. Madam Vice-President, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-002-001.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which I am registering three priority rights. With the first microphone of Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, Mr Miroslav Kalousek and Mr Vojtěch Filip will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-002-001.u6	Thank you. Good morning. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, let me also be involved in the debate before the first reading of the draft law on the State Budget for 2017. This is the third state budget that our coalition government is submitting to this Chamber of Deputies, and let me begin by expressing the situation on the basis of which we have prepared this draft State Budget Act for 2017. First of all, I would like to stress that the Czech Republic is a successful and economically growing country. We continue to grow despite the fact that gross domestic product growth was slower this year than in the previous year, growth was 2.6 % in the second quarter of this year compared to 5% in the second quarter of 2015. We've been keeping the growth trend in order for the third year. It must be said that 2015 was record-breaking in terms of the pace of our economic growth, a great role in this success was played by the good absorption of European funds in the final phase when we could have done so. Record economic growth from 2015 is naturally reflected in a good tax selection of this year and I firmly hope that it will also contribute to the best possible outcome of state management at the end of 2016. I think it is good to point out, when we talk about the fact that the Czech economy is already growing for three years in a row, that the trend of our gross domestic product was downward in 2013. Economic development responds positively to the economic policy of the government, what the government is implementing in its policy. I would like to say that we have several principles in the current economic policy and in the draft budget for next year. First of all, I am glad that we are succeeding in ensuring internal stability, because it was very often lacking here during previous governments. In less than three years' time, the coalition government of social democracy, YES and folklore managed to create stable conditions in which entrepreneurs have confidence, in which employers and industry are confident, but also employees. It is also because we have renewed a very intensive social dialogue. We are openly discussing economic policy with our social partners, their priorities, and we are trying to gain support for this economic policy of the government. Thanks to this, we have also been able, ladies and gentlemen, to find solutions for some serious problems that have roots deep in the past. I am thinking, for example, of the completely underestimated state of project preparation for key transport structures in our country. Those under past governments have practically stopped preparing. As a result, even though we now have sufficient financial resources through economic growth, high employment and tax collection, we do not have the necessary projects to implement today, whether from national or European resources. In fact, for the last two years, we have been working intensively to make available at least next year and in the years following such projects at national level. You know that we have set up crisis management, we have set up enhanced control, we have negotiated exceptions with the European Commission for maximum constructions, we are also trying to enforce the necessary changes in the amendment to the construction law, which this House has put on the table from the government in September. [[11.40 hours]] Another example of solving skeletons in the closet and debts of the past is the current situation in the Czech Export Bank. We are dealing with a situation where, gradually, this government must and will have to finance losses incurred by failed projects from the time of right-wing governments. Until we came along, no one made up their minds. The government is actively trying to solve problems in the Czech economy, even if it did not cause them. We don't push them into the future, we don't hide problems just below the surface cuts. The next year's budget provides for investment support. I also saw journalists' questions at the press conference this morning in the sense that the opposition criticizes the government that there is not enough money to invest in the draft budget. But total capital expenditure increases by CZK 25 billion in the draft budget. I would also like to remind you that the budget increases expenditure on research, development and innovation by CZK 3.7 billion overall. I remember the debate that was held here last year around the 2016 budget. At the time, the opposition criticized the government for not increasing expenditure enough in the field of science and research. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to assure you that there has been a significant acceleration of expenditure increases in this area. I think that's extremely necessary. It's about the future, it's about having high value added production here in the future, and there's going to be a great need for money for applied research. So proven government increases spending on science and research by CZK 3.7 billion. Very often, and we see this also in the reality of this year's state budget, the Czech Republic has rather a problem with how to spend the investment funds planned in the state budget. I have already mentioned the problems with project preparation, but of course the problem is the public procurement itself. The process is lengthy, there are a number of ways to object, to appeal, to complicate, i.e. public procurement is still a narrow place in terms of the implementation of public investment. During this year, we have also received a number of warning signals in this context, and the government will undoubtedly address the fact that we will have on our desk the state's final account for this year, so we want to deal in detail with the various ministries how they drew and did not draw budget funds, so as a government, we want to focus significantly on how individual budget chapters, individual ministers actually draw funds from national and European sources within the financial year. Another principle on which this draft budget is based is the pursuit of the maximum health condition of public budgets. This means that we are at the same time strengthening investment and some public spending, but at the same time we are not unnecessarily indebting the state. This September, the Czech Republic has achieved the best economic result since 1993. The surplus of the state budget exceeded CZK 80 billion, which means that the pro-growth economic policy allows the state budget deficit to be reduced. For next year, as has already been said here, we expect a deficit of CZK 10 billion below the planned deficit for this year, i.e. a deficit of CZK 60 billion is expected. We are trying to reduce the deficit effectively, so as not to harm social cohesion, so as not to unfairly beat seniors, sick people, families with children or young people. That is, I think, a big difference from the last budget policy that was here under the right-wing governments. The balance of revenue and expenditure was then monitored, but it was not really assessed what the budget would do with the social situation in the country and the functioning of public services. In less than three years of this coalition government's term of office, 200,000 people in the labour market have gained their jobs. Unemployment has decreased significantly. I am glad that an active labour market policy could also contribute to this, that the promotion of new investments has contributed to this, and today we have a record share of people who are active in the labour market. It's 71 percent today. This, honourable Members, has been the highest employment since 1993. We are also able to reduce long-term unemployment, graduates' unemployment, and we are trying to support new projects and domestic labour mobility. I stress this because, in my view, the budget is not just an accounting exercise, and it is important to monitor whether the budget helps to meet other important economic objectives. And if we are talking about that, and I mentioned here that this year the biggest surplus in the autumn months since 1993 was the state budget, it is important to say that it was also the lowest unemployment, virtually. the highest employment of people in our economy since 1993. So the highest employment, the highest employment rate, and one of the highest surpluses in the state budget. Of course, the fact that people go to work has a positive impact on the income, but also on the expenditure side of the budget. As a result, we do not need to focus on the payment of unemployment benefits, so we manage to save money on social benefits, i.e. not as much social benefits as in the past are paid, and public spending may be directed towards further development, but also to the levelling of debts left behind in the past. Very often, it is said that our government is throwing away. I want to remind you that we have inherited a number of debts that we need to deal with gradually. Where are the debts in the first place? It's in the public sector, in the quality of public services. We have a huge debt that we are dragging with us, in education, in terms of underfinancing regional education, low teacher salaries, we are dragging a debt in the health sector, in social services, but also in terms of ensuring the country's security and defence. In the past, we have witnessed complete stagnation in schools, hospitals, care for the elderly, but also in the functioning of the labour offices, as well as in the way support for fire brigades, social services or people with disabilities looked. The long-term stagnation, the underfinancing naturally led to bankruptcy, led to personnel crises, i.e. to further increase the availability and quality of public services. We see this very much today, especially in health care, where we are facing a lot of pressure on health professionals who have remained working in hospitals, doctors and nurses, but we are also seeing it today in education, where it is very difficult to keep quality teachers and quality teachers in the system of our public education for those salaries that we have inherited in education. Ladies and gentlemen, the government does not take this situation into consideration only bitterly, but we are trying to respond actively, i.e. that we expect a significant increase in the salaries of teachers in regional schools, primary schools, secondary schools in the state budget that you have before you for 2017. We also expect the state to contribute to higher payments for state insured persons, so we expect an increase in the salaries of doctors and nurses from 1 January next year. The salaries of other public sector employees, firefighters, police officers, people who work in social services, non-teaching staff in schools are also rising. What I would also like to stress in my speech is that we are increasing our security and defence spending by almost CZK 9 billion overall. That is certainly not a negligible amount. When you look at the priorities of the budget, the fact that CZK 9 billion goes in addition to defense and inland, CZK 4.7 billion increase for the Ministry of Defence, CZK 4.2 billion increase for the Ministry of the Interior's budget, so clearly demonstrates that security and defence are the real priority of the government. Once again, we can record the debate. I know that some opposition Members say: You should add more money in defense, there is a complex international situation, we should carry out our commitments more quickly within NATO. I would just like to draw attention to the problem that is, and that is our ability to spend these calculated funds. I think the debate, the debate, needs to be measured with what the real ability is, for example. The Ministry of Defence realize acquisitions that are related to improving the arming of our army. I want to welcome the fact that we are succeeding in the process of human acquisitions, which means that we have succeeded in supplementing the army with new members, in supplementing police and firefighters with new members. But as for the large investments in terms of military equipment, the process is unfortunately very lengthy and increased, only a mechanical increase in funds will not solve the problem of slow purchase of equipment within the army. [[11.50 hours]] I would also like to say, honourable Members, that, in addition to security, in addition to the situation in the public health and education sector, growth in pensions and total household income is also a priority for the government. Again, I want to point out that this is a philosophy that we have held for three years. Three years we've been trying within the budget. If the economy is growing, we are trying to ensure that, through the budget, this growth is also solidarity with people. Therefore, as the Minister of Finance mentioned here, we are proposing to increase the average old-age pension by CZK 308 from 1 January next year. It is on the edge of the limit set by the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to thank Parliament once again for having succeeded in changing the rules on pension valorisation. I think it's important that we all realize that, because if we hadn't changed the rules for pension valorization, and you know that the right-wing opposition was strongly opposed, we couldn't have done that today to valorize pensions in the range of CZK 308. The valorisation might be half, maybe two-thirds, but it certainly wouldn't be an average of CZK 308. So luckily, we managed to change the rules for pension valorization in time, and we managed to agree in a negotiation that was not easy in the government to use the limit that we have by law, and we will give CZK 308 to valorisation of pensions. It seems that, thanks to economic growth, the deficit of the pension system has been reduced, which I think is also a positive thing. In 2013, the deficit was around 30 billion. Kroner, this year there's a chance he could be around 11 billion. Crowns. So, once again, positive developments in terms of the pension account. I think that the increase in pensions proposed by our government is certainly not an unreasonable waste of time. We want to ensure decent conditions for the lives of people of retirement age. These people often face a lack of money, a lack of medicine. It is a group of people who are very often at risk of poverty when it comes to lonely pensioners. What I am very happy about is that we have succeeded once again on the basis of the amendment of the law in Parliament to achieve an increase in the contribution to care by 10 per cent. The care allowance for people who can't take care of themselves was last defined around 2006-2007 and hasn't increased by a crown since. This means, for the first time, that we are in a situation where we are able to valorise this contribution by 10 per cent for people with disabilities who are entitled to care, which is a major amount especially for category 3 and 4, for the most serious disabilities, where the valorisation is then in the order of several hundred crowns. Dear Members, following the development of the economy, as has already been mentioned here today, we expect wage increases to continue and, therefore, household incomes. The Czech Republic has very low wages in European comparison, which is usually seen in this simplified view as a competitive advantage for foreign investors. It is certainly not in our interest, however, that the wage growth rate in our country should be slower than in Western European countries and that differences in income grow between us and the rest of Europe. I think the pay gap shows tables that you all probably know, which document how big the differences in minimum wages are in those countries where minimum wages are set. And here too, we see that the Czech Republic, for example, by not raising the minimum wage at all in the past, has reached the trenches of countries in terms of minimum wage levels, although in terms of economic growth, standard of living, as well as the costs that households have with us, we are certainly not in those last places in the European Union. I think it is also important to mention that the economic growth that we are experiencing, which I hope we will experience next year, in 2017, is not something that is completely automatic. We are a country that is very heavily dependent on exports, i.e. it will depend on how the situation in the euro area, which is our main trading partner, will develop. You know, the government is trying to diversify exports. We're looking for new export territories, but in today's world, it's not a simple role at all. So I consider it extremely important for the government to continue active economic diplomacy to help our companies place their goods and products abroad. I consider it important that we continue to support investment, but we want to think about the investment incentive system here in our country. I think that the investment case of GE Aviation, which is preparing an investment here in the Czech Republic, wants to develop and produce aircraft engines here, shows that our investment incentive system was rather built on the support of classical productions, some might say montoven, i.e. standard production processes and transfer of production to the Czech Republic. But we are not fully prepared for this from the point of view of the system of support, how to support projects in the field of innovation and development. But if, in the future, we want to have production here with higher added value, so that we have better paid jobs here, it is important that we also attract investments that will be based on the higher value added. And I think it's important that we lure them at a stage where things are still developing and producing, virtually. they investigate so that we can participate in them as Čech at that stage of development and research, not only in production. I think that is also a great challenge that our government and its successors will certainly face. When I say that growth is not an automatic thing, I want to mention two or three important priorities that are important to us when it comes to next year. Firstly, to significantly increase the pace of drawing European money. We are now theoretically a new financial perspective in the third year, but for the first two years we have not spent any money on the European budget. The first two years were purely years of preparation, preparation of documents, negotiations with the European Commission. The European Commission also needed to be clear about some things. So for two years, we haven't spent anything. This year, 2016, is the first year that we are starting to really draw European funds, i.e. In the third year we begin to really draw. And the government's goal is for the next year, 2017, to be the year when the drawdown is really going to go really well. This means it will already affect the real economy, employment, economic growth. So the key priority - to speed up the drawdown of European money next year. The second key priority, I have already mentioned it in part - to launch upcoming transport infrastructure events. This government spent three years preparing for acceleration and accelerating the preparation of key transport structures. The land was bought out, the rules for buying them out were settled. The land was bought out, the EIA was negotiated with the European Commission, the documents were prepared for the EIA to be settled. Next year is the year we have to start building. This is a key task for the Ministry of Transport for us to actually start building next year. This also corresponds to the increase in the budget of the transport fund, as approved by the government, and therefore the budget of the transport fund should also arrive in the Chamber of Deputies in a short time. [[12.00 hours]] The third point concerns the situation on the labour market. I've already mentioned that we have a high level of employment. Thank God unemployment is declining, i.e. For three years, we have had a sustained trend of reducing unemployment. It helped a lot. There's 200,000 people at work who couldn't find the job three years ago. But we still have about 370,000 people in the employment records. Three hundred and seventy thousand people! We need at least a part of these people to get to the labour market, because at the same time, some 140,000 job vacancies are registered in the economy only through employment offices. So, on one side, 140,000 seats available, on the other hand, in the records of the employment offices of 370 thousand people. So we need an active employment policy to move these people, to take advantage of retraining, to make use of the mobility contribution, and to get as much of them to work as possible. This means solving the problem that we have on the labour market today, by employing our unemployed primarily, looking for ways to activate them, how to get them into the labour market. This is the third important priority that I wanted to mention, because the barrier to growth is, among other things, a barrier to growth. also lack of skilled labour in our labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by stressing that we are presenting a draft budget that will help our country to ensure another period of prosperity, economic growth and low unemployment. It is a budget that will enable better functioning of the state and its public services, including education and health, it is also a budget that will reduce the rate of debt, it is a budget that, as I have documented, will support investment in infrastructure and also in a better future thanks to increased support for science and research, it is a budget that undoubtedly strengthens our security, whether it is the military or the police. And I firmly believe that, like the two previous budgets, this third draft budget of the coalition government in the House will receive clear support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-002-001.u7	Thank you, Prime Minister, and please to the microphone with priority right of Chairman TOP 09 of Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-002-001.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, let me start by saying without irony that I really like it when the Prime Minister comes forward, supports his finance minister, and guarantees the House's budget for the entire government on behalf of the government. It wasn't always like that. Sometimes I've missed the word "premiere" in the past 20 years. I think it has always been a lack, and I firmly hope that this will become the rule for future years, so that the Prime Minister is the House's petitioner at the beginning of the presentation of the first reading of the state budget. The second thing that I also liked very much is that the Prime Minister said that, thank God, we have low unemployment. Yes, even the Prime Minister knows it's not because of the government. [[Fun.]] That it's thanks to God and the outside conditions. Let's be really grateful for them, but I appreciate this reflex. Now please allow me, not in static figures, but in trends, to try to implement, in particular, the expenditure side of the state budget, to say what I do not like very much there, what is not in line with financial responsibility, with the words on the investigation and, above all, it is not in line with the verbally expressed priorities that the government is making a comment on the budget. So if I refer to something as a priority, I should also find it as a priority expenditure in the state budget. If it's not the case, then something's not true. Either the numbers or the statements. And the numbers are true because they want us to approve them. So let's go to some basic indicators in trends. Total spending, which the government is still 30 billion. increased compared to the medium term, it was able to increase by 136 billion over the three years of its mandate. Crowns. One hundred and thirty-six billion crowns in three years is a relatively sharp increase and it is not true that the deficit is decreasing. The real indicator of deficit is structural deficit. This is also the only real indicator that is monitored by international institutions, it is also the only deficit that is described in the fiscal compact to which the government has acceded, it is a structural deficit and it is a deficit that is net of the cyclical impact of extraordinary revenue and expenditure, and it points to the government's true financial responsibility. The declining structural deficit shows the government's will to save, the stable structural deficit shows the government's will not waste and spare. The increasing structural deficit shows the will of the government to waste and not to save. This indicator has been inherited from us by the government at positive zero, at 0.2, it is irrelevant, it is simply a positive zero, so that in the first year of government parties, when they have not yet ruled, but already decided by the vote on the budget, they will make it sharply worse by about 70 billion. to minus 1.1. Then there is a slight improvement for two years. For 2015, the government proposes, and will also comply with, a better structural deficit than in 2014 and even in 2016, there is a slight improvement. The trend, in my opinion, was slow, but this is a matter of opinion, was essentially healthy in 2015 and 2016 from this point of view, towards zero. On the contrary, there is no justification for a sharp deterioration of the structural deficit by half a percent between 2016 and 2017, which is more than 20 billion. That's exactly the 30 billion that the government's improved on income that won't last forever. If, after three years of economic growth, the government starts to deteriorate the structural deficit, so it starts to deteriorate its financial responsibility, and says we want to waste, and the same wasting, which means further deterioration, it plans for 2018, too, then it is simply an indicator of the government's financial irresponsibility. That's not a subjective opinion, that's just the truth. This is an indicator of the government's financial irresponsibleness, because the government is aggravating the structural deficit at a time of growth, and it is one of the basic reasons why the budget is poor and irresponsible. The Minister of Finance very often criticized the government very much before the elections about how he could not save money in times of extremely difficult economic situation. He gave us an example of how they entrepreneurs must, when it comes to reducing wage costs by twenty-thirty percent, operating costs by half, and how we do not save. Although I had nightmares at the time from saving steps that I was forced to make, I had some remorse about entrepreneurs. Yes, it was their taxes, and it was probably possible to save more than 15 per cent on wages and 20 per cent on the operation of the state we were saving. But what's the deal with what the government's spending money on, the 136 billion she's raised her expenses on? How is he really saving up there? So let's say the principal items. The main essential item is the salaries and similar related expenses of civil servants, those paid from the state budget, which is far from just an increase in salaries that cannot be criticised and are fine in good times, but above all it is made up of an army of more than thirty new civil servants, which we simply have to pay as well. [[1000]] This item consists of 136 billion. 118.7 billion. One hundred eighteen full seven tenths of a billion makes an increase in salaries and related expenses. About 32.7 billion. Government increased the purchase of services by 12.7 billion. increased non-investment purchases. The purchase of material, the Minister's favourite office paper, as he has always trained us, which could be bought cheaper, increased by 8.1 billion. And one of the fastest growing items at all is non-investment subsidies to business entities. You're up 49.3 billion. Crowns. That's the money you always take from everyone and give to one of the selected groups. That makes her better. The others are worse off because they have to pay you. So that's one of the fastest growing state budget items. There is no single aggregate item in operation of the state where the government would spare. They all grew violently. [[12.10 hours]] In contrast, as appears in the priorities referred to by the Prime Minister, namely investment, science and research. He spoke of the trend between 2016 and 2017. Yes, there is indeed an increase between 2016 and 2017, but this is not a commendation of the budget of 2017. This is the charge of 2016, because the expenditure is lower than it was in the times of the governments of the economic crisis. If R&D expenditure and innovation accounted for 0.97% in 2013 and fell to 0.76% in 2016, it is true that they are increasing to 0.83% in 2017, but still a much lower priority than in 2013 at 0.97%. It's true that this is a relative number, that is. counts from another base, of course. This is more in the absolute issue, but from the point of view of the priority, the priority against 2013 is lower than it was in times of economic crisis. In the case of investment expenditure, this is lower not only in relative but also in absolute terms. If, in 2013 at the time of the end of the economic crisis - reminding me of this, the Prime Minister - they accounted for 2,5 % of investment expenditure, yes, it is true that there is an increase between 2016 and 2017, because this is only 1.68 in 2016. So when the government raises to 2.14 percent compared to 2016, it can proudly beat in the breasts that it increases, but it's still less than the governments had in 2013 at the time of the end of the economic crisis. And unfortunately, that's true in absolute numbers. In 2012, at a time of a very strong economic crisis, the government invested, invested really - Mr Volný, as he says to me, budgeted, did not invest - no, these are really invested numbers. And they're numbers from the Ministry of Finance's open sources. In 2012, the government actually invested 113.6 billion. The government, which claims that investment is its priority, is CZK 103.7 billion for next year. So 10 billion less than the government invested in 2012. They're Treasury numbers. Please check them when someone tells you how these investments are the priority of this government again. 113,5 in 2012, 103.7 in the budget for 2017. So where's the money going when we've increased our spending by 136 billion and we're investing less? Then what are we spending it on? So let's see what the real budgetary priorities of the government are. First of all, it's the number of civil servants. Since 2013, the government has been able to increase the number of its employees by - the last exact number is 31,111 employees. Yes, it's true they're not all bureaucrats. There are teachers, firefighters, customs officers, police officers, but there's a lot of officials there too. Only at the Ministry of Finance about 1,200, an increase in the Office of the Government, at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, now we could go after the resort - we had employees everywhere, and we had sleeves everywhere. I don't think any government - no, I know no government has done this since 1992. In three years, 31,333 new employees, without any additional responsibilities, that is, the production of services has remained, but I need 31.5 thousand more people to do it... I think social democracy can sleep peacefully now. He's running the government, whether or not he's gonna run like a company. Well, apparently, they don't run like a company. No company would have lost 31,5 thousand extra employees to the same production volume. Only someone who knows he doesn't have to pay for it on his own and to whom the taxpayers pay for it. So this is the key budget priority of the government - 31,5 thousand new civil servants. If we look at it in relative numbers, in relative numbers, we can clearly tell each other and show the percentage of what the priorities are. Investments as compared to 2013 absolute increase of 1,3 %. One percent of science and research. Operation and salaries 28.5 %! 28.5 percent. Social benefits of 9.6%, while investments of only 1.3. Science and research 1.0. And the fastest growing operating item is those non-investment subsidies to business entities. Compared to one percent to research and 1.3 percent to investment, 40.87 percent increase in item. One of the fastest growing operating items created by the company being composed of a select group of business entities. They're better off, the others are worse off. Maybe we could reschedule it in the second song to social services. Such social assistance to a few needy entrepreneurs. In any case, we're all paying for it, and in any case, it's the fastest accelerating item in the state's operation. I can't forgive one question if I'm to talk about the past. I can't forgive one question about the 2013 Minister of Finance's election statement when he said it, and the public actually believed that we were running out of 200 billion on corruption and waste. And we're gonna seal those holes, not steal them, and we're gonna have enough money. Well, if that were true, if only half of the truth were true, then next year's budget would have to be presented with surplus. Let's see how I look at each number, the second piece, the program piece, I don't see the 200 billion there. Not 100, not 50, not 30. They're just not there. That promised savings didn't happen. This logically only leads me to two possible alternative reasons. Either it was not stolen and wasted before this government came, so there was no place to spare, or it is being stolen and wasted in this government as well, or even more than in previous governments. There's no other solution, because the money, the savings, you just can't find in the bowels of that budget. I don't want to keep you any longer, because we're going to have a second reading and we can talk about individual chapters and a similarly economical and responsible government policy and, above all, that government really says something else, and then you can read something else in those numbers. That is, I think, the least honest in the draft budget. But there is one thing I should suggest, because if something is not right, then some real motion for a resolution should be tabled. That's what I'd like to put forward at the end of my speech. [[12.20 hours]] Each responsible government should submit a balanced budget for 2017 after three years of growth. But in order to do that, it would have to have completed homework, systemic changes in mandatorial, i.e. by the law of compulsory spending, which the state has to issue, because it is imposed on it by the law. The government has done nothing here. Actually, I did. It has abolished a number of reform measures that we have put in place, put it back to zero, but it itself has not submitted anything. Of course, that can't be fixed in one month. Unwritten homework in three years will not catch up in a month, the law will not be passed in a month, and I see no will to present it, so it is evident that it is not possible to submit a balanced bill on the state budget. I respect that, because the country just has to have a budget. But what the government can want, and it's fair to want, is for it to be at least as wasted as it predicted in 2015, that it would be wasted. You know that it is not just a draft law on the state budget, but also a medium-term outlook for three years in advance, it will also be this case. So when the government planned what resources it would need to cover its priorities in 2015, it planned spending 30 billion. lower than it is now presenting to us, with the deficit being 60 billion, as it proposes, and thus setting a spending limit of 30 billion. lower than the money he's asking of us now. The spending limits are one of the quite central measures for the government's budgetary policy, because they put simple considerations into practice. We set a deficit and set a spending limit. If incomes are lower thanks to the economic cycle than we expected, there is nothing we can do, we need to plan lower spending to keep up with the deficit. But if the incomes are higher than we expected, we have our spending limits, that's the money we said was enough, that's all we can't have, that's all the House should give us, and that's all we're going to have, and we're going to have a lower deficit. This is the principle of spending limits, and that is why the Minister of Finance Mertlík used to put them into law 218/2000. It works perfectly if it's kept. Of course, the government has decided not to keep it. So when she found out that thanks to God - as the Prime Minister said, not thanks to the government's policy - she would be 30 billion. more than expected, it did not behave as foreseen by the Budgetary Rules Act, we will be able to cope with the expenditure we planned in 2015, and we will be 30 billion. A lower deficit, so thank God, we'll be 30 billion. more, we can give out 30 billion. more presents for the priorities I was talking about. When they tell you that it was for investment, for education, for security, for everything, don't forget that the main priorities are the salaries of civil servants, social benefits, and non-investment subsidies to business entities. So I think it's fair for the Chamber of Deputies to tell the government fine, you can't have a balanced budget, but at least be as wasted as you assumed you'd be wasting in 2015, don't be more wasteful, it's not polite, so work it out. For this reason, I would like to propose a resolution: the Chamber of Deputies returns the draft state budget to the Government with a recommendation (a) expenditure less at least 30 billion, (b) balance less at least 30 billion. 20 days deadline. I thank you for your attention and for the degree of responsibility, budgetary responsibility to yourself and future generations with which you will consider this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-002-001.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now please, another with priority rights, and this is Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-002-001.u10	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen. Maybe I'll start from the end. I believe that we have the third budget of the government of Bohuslav Sobotka, this coalition government, ahead of us, and that we should also look at the foundations on which they stand. When I said that I would start from the end, I do not think that it is important to cut more, as Kalousek suggests, but that it is essential to look for more resources, because it is evident that government policy at the moment will not be sufficient with possible savings within individual departments, or with possible tightening up of tax control and with greater tax yield, and that it is necessary to take deeper steps at the time of economic growth that will concern the tax system. First, I will continue the positive evaluation of this budget. I can positively appreciate the government's growth of gross domestic product in the lower part considered, the 2.4 percent. Finally, the Czech National Bank, but also some private institutions, have a growth forecast of 3%, and I consider taking on the basis of growth in the lower amount to be responsible. But it must be said that growth can also be different. What's going on? Because the very revival on whose wave the government is currently riding, and the result is rather given by it, is at risk. The Minister of Finance overestimates his actions in the field of tax administration and deliberately avoids the subject of a fairer distribution of tax burdens with the help of tax progression and taxation of large capital and corporations. I think we really need to think about this. Finally, growth in neighbouring countries, especially in neighbouring Germany, is expected to be one percentage point lower, i.e. 1.4 %, and the surrounding countries around 1,5 %, up to 1.8 percent. So, of course, in this respect, we will come across a few issues that I would like to remind you of. I cannot even agree that we might be able to get a better result by crossing out some other expenditure items, because the lack of investment, or not financing investment, is a great burden for the future. In this respect, therefore, I have to start with a critical assessment, and why this time the KSČM club will not be, I would say, reconciled to the government, as it was in previous years when it submitted budgets. It was not the government's budget in 2014, so of course we did not oppose it. We knew it was necessary to remove the worst atrocities in politics, which have been here since 2006, respectively. 2010 was, and we abstained from voting on this budget. Similarly, we knew that even in 2015, there could not yet be a fundamental position that we needed to bury the holes, and in this respect, we were again saving the government as an opposition, as the strongest opposition club. [[12.30 hours]] But our level of patience for 2017 is in no way appropriate, because after three years it is evident that the government has not fulfilled what we expected, ultimately what citizens expected, especially from the perspective of the electoral programmes of individual government political parties, and this is indeed a question of another tax system. It's a bad tax policy. It is the most serious conceptual lack of current government. First of all, the transfer of tax burdens from indirect taxes to taxes should have been stopped a long time ago, because it is obvious that household consumption is also to be reduced by the government, from 3.1 percent to 2.7 percent. That means that even the revenue from these indirect taxes will be lower. And it's obvious here that the government can't look citizens in the eye and tell them how much it needs to collect on taxes. It is better to tax consumption in indirect taxes, such as value added tax, excise duty, etc., than to say that it is necessary to divide taxpayers into those who are large multinational corporations or large enterprises in the Czech Republic, and what are those small businessmen or smaller Czech companies that have the same tax burden as those huge multinational corporations that nota bene even more use the Czech state budget than any of the Czech employees or entrepreneurs or businessmen. Basically, when we look at it, our tax system is further increasing consumption taxation, so that the fastest of the surrounding countries, and we have a strongly below-average share of capital taxation, by 6 percentage points. On average, I consider this against Europe, when Europe's average is 23 percent, and in the Czech Republic it is less than 17 percent, which, in my view, is a fundamental flaw. And in this respect, I expected the government for the whole year 2016 to prepare the state budget 2017, which will be the state budget, the display closet of this government before the elections, yet another procedure. But it continues to burden consumption, not taxing capital can be very retaliative. Why? Because the system of multiple rates has most European countries in Europe, so the return to tax progression in our country would be nothing special, on the contrary expected, and in companies' taxes, i.e. corporate taxes, it would be the second rates of tax, or a special sector tax on selected fields, such as elsewhere, e.g. financial sector, business chain or informatics sector. Only these steps, according to our calculations, would bring about a strengthening of budget revenues that would allow not only a balanced budget, but more massively highlight the necessary desired steps in the economic and social policy of the Czech state, which are now either completely absent or carried out to an extremely inadequate degree. The Prime Minister was talking about how we're adding 308 crowns to the elderly. Let me get this straight. Let me get this straight. Is that really something we can brag about? After all, it's a disgrace, after it took place in 2015, 2016, by 40, by 50 crowns. When I look at wage growth in the budgetary sphere, there is an increase of 10 percent in health care. I'm not questioning him at all. On the contrary, it's necessary. Police officers and firefighters will have salaries of 5%, i.e. about CZK 1,100 to 1,300 higher, teachers 8 to 10 percent, CZK 2 000, officials of between CZK 1,000 and CZK 2 000, workers of culture of between 5 and 10 percent - and pensioners of the CZK 308, that's 2.7 %. Is that something the government can brag about? Of course not! Especially at a time when neither in 2015, nor in 2016, i.e. in the years in which this government has already prepared the budget, we have completely forgotten about this category. In this respect, therefore, I note that the answer to the correct question of where to take it is the tax progression. If we do not implement it and continue to burden taxes only on consumption and not on capital, then we cannot have enough funds in the state budget. I would not want to jeopardize investment, and I believe that risking investment would be a big problem for the future, but then it is necessary to plan investments in transport infrastructure that are inadequate, and still low levels can not really pay off in the future. It is certainly without doubt that apart from motorways, fast trains it is important to continue to build data networks and promote economic growth e.g. by supporting housing for socially vulnerable groups. After selling apartments in most cities, the question of municipal apartments for seniors, or apartments for young families, basic things and the basic step of government, which could allow the housing market not to be distorted by the fact that apartments are scarce and rents are rising sharply and are essentially beyond what a person can pay from a normal salary. The absolute weakness of our budget of the Czech Republic is project financing. The Czech state finances have no intention in this regard, there are no specifically designed programmes containing the objectives to be achieved, which would be formulated in such a way that their achievement can be controlled, even during the implementation of the programme. The onset of industry phenomenon 04 will mean a reduction in employment. It is already necessary to prepare for this, but I do not see any government action in this area that would be significant in the medium term at least. I expected it to appear at least in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, or in the chapter of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, where, on the contrary, the government is proposing lower spending for next year than it is budgeted for this year. I will not forgive myself for the brief statement that this latest government budget is not based on factually and argumentally substantiated, justified medium-term forecasts for the development of the country's economy. It is therefore not based on any growth in the economy and employment. In my opinion, this is the second most serious lack of this budget. Our country is undoubtedly lacking a workplace to address the long-term forecasting and prospects of the path of economic development and its implementation. The current concept of the current economic situation is merely a lack of chipping and perhaps even a mere play with words. In this respect, therefore, I do not see any growth strategy or the government's efforts to formulate and implement its economic policy. Let me do one more thing that might be important from this point of view. If the state budget surplus in September is about 82.3 billion. CZK and for the whole year the planned deficit is 70 billion, so the deviation is 150 billion. and is given a summary of three factors, not all of which are positive. Undoubtedly, the development of tax revenue and social insurance is positive. This reflects, on the one hand, the level of wage growth and the shift in the structure of economic growth to consumption and, on the other, better tax discipline. There is another disadvantage in the tax discipline, because the Minister of Finance is planning a certain income from tax discipline, but part of the tax discipline has already been applied this year, which means that there are not so many tax evasions on value added tax after the introduction of control reports, but this does not have to happen again for 2017. The second factor is the influx of funds from European funds, the volume of which already exceeds the annual plan by 50 billion. But it is mostly money that will emerge in the future in the economy. And in this respect, it is a thing that is not entirely predictable for the future. The third factor is the deepening inability of the state to spend planned investment funds. In any case, I consider that a mistake. [[12.40 hours]] With regard to the very decision that we should be able to make sure that government policy is formulated into pro-growth economic policy and economy, I lack such fast-acting measures as targeted programmes that would support the involvement of small and medium-sized Czech companies in programmes stimulating economic growth. It should be work-intensive and not too complicated for long-term preparation, for example. Orderly larger than so far support for the insulation of private and public buildings, flood control measures, repairs of roads and bridges, reconstruction of monuments. The construction programme, for example, would certainly be worth considering. 50,000 rental apartments or the focus of state investment incentives on prospects. The order should at all be greater support for innovation and start-ups or wide application of micro-credits for small companies, simply focusing massively on growth measures. I do not want us to stick to the general words, so I have said at least two specific things that I see as possible to include in this respect. This country needs a state budget, but not this form of state budget, which is not supported by any specific programme. Please, economic growth cannot be spared, it must be created. Therefore, I believe that this year the government lacked the courage to appear before the citizens of the Czech Republic, to tell what tax revenues it wanted, and to propose progressive taxes for both physical and legal persons, to secure higher incomes, and also the possibility of programmed management of this state for further economic growth, which would not depend solely on a limited time-limited boom. Since the reservation is essential and it is neither the first nor the second but the third state budget of this government, the KSČM will not support the state budget this time. I know the government coalition has enough votes, but let it be its own responsibility for this state budget without the possibility of creating conditions for further growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-002-001.u11	Thank you and please to the microphone for the debate entered by Mr Opálka. With the fact that I'm saying in advance that I'm going to have to cut him off at 12.45, and then he's going to be given the word again. Because at 12.45 we have voting points. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-002-001.u12	Thank you, Madam President. I'd ask you to call a two-minute recess. I've got it for 20 minutes, and I'm not gonna chew it up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-002-001.u13	Okay, I think it'll be wise. I'll use two minutes to hand over the controls. So at this point, I'm interrupting this point and declaring a two-minute recess.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-002-001.u14	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. According to the approved agenda of the meeting at 12.45, we are to begin with paragraph 264. We still have paragraphs 216 and 217 before the midday break, and for this reason I ask the President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník, to come to the rapporteur's table and first justify to us the proposal to amend the composition of the Chamber of Deputies. You were served on the bench by the resolution of the Election Commission No. 144 of October 25th, and Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-26-ps2013-050-06-002-001.u15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues, good afternoon. So there are three electoral points ahead of us, as we agreed to change the program. The first point will be public, acclamation, a vote in plenary, and the second two points, as you are used to, will take place in a secret form in the State Acts, where everything is ready at the moment. The first is point number
