ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u1	21. Government bill amending Act No. 89/2012 Sb., Civil Code, and other related laws /house print 642/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, the bill submitted will be presented by the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have presented this proposal in detail at first reading, so I will not tire of it for the second time. It is a set of changes that we considered necessary to adopt at this stage of the effectiveness of the new Civil Code. We have tabled 11 such amendments to Parliament, and I will not calculate them again. We have received amendments that have already been discussed in the Constitutional Legal Committee, if they all went through, for about 20 amendments, I suppose, the rapporteur will speak in more detail. There are a number of other proposals, so I would like to give room for this discussion, so I will not delay any longer. I'll stress one thing. Among those proposals that are already coming from the government is one that causes time distress, and this needs to be extended by the time limit within which so-called. reviews of decisions on restrictions, respectively. previously absolving some persons of their right. It was originally set for three years, however, regardless of how many experts we have, whose comments are needed in these cases, so that the courts are objectively unable to meet the review. Unfortunately, if this had not been done within that period and it had not been extended, there is a very severe consequence, because the law in such a case assumes that those persons who did not have the review will automatically regain full discretion by the end of that period. I remind you in this context that this restriction of rightfulness is always for the sake of protecting these people from being abused in any way. So for this reason, if this disaster is not to occur, it is essential that we be able to discuss this law so that it enters into force by the end of this year, virtually. at the beginning of next year. That's why I'm asking you to speed up the negotiations as much as possible. Everything for me at the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u3	Thank you, Minister. In the first reading, we ordered the proposal to be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee and the press was ordered by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The committee resolution was delivered as House prints 642/1 to 4. I ask that the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee, represented today by Mr Tejc, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and of any possible amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u4	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to represent here, at least today, the duly excused Mr Vondráček. The Committee has dealt with this law repeatedly, after all, it is the most important rule of civil law. The majority consensus in the committee, albeit perhaps not 100%, is that, although many of us, and I was among them, did not support the adoption of the new Civil Code in this version, that we should not yet have the chaos that has largely occurred by changing these paragraphs in a fundamental way. The consensus with the Ministry is that there should be less than more of these changes. However, a number of places have appeared that demand legal regulation. [[11.40 hours]] We discussed this on June 23rd at our 69th meeting. Among other things, we agreed to support the law as amended by the amendments, some of which I would comment very briefly on. This is, for example, a change in the modification of line constructions, especially water pipes, sewers, other lines and objects that have newly become part of the land under the new Civil Code. Of course, everyone can imagine what a problem arises, for example, in the operation of a cable car or in the operation of other line constructions, if specific columns should become property of the land owner, not as a whole. It is therefore obvious that, in this case too, the code must be compared with common sense, that is, the ownership of these line constructions properly authorised should be separated from the soil. The second thing that is proposed to come back to the committee after a large and turbulent debate is pre-emptive law. This means that there should continue to be a pre-emptive right to real estate, as it existed before the effectiveness of the new Civil Code until 1. 1. 2014. The simple point is that today a co-owner of a property, such as an ideal half or a smaller or larger share, has no right, and the other one has no obligation to offer the second co-owner the purchase of this property when selling this ideal part. Here was the committee mostly to bring this right back. There are many arguments for and against. I personally can stress one argument for, and that is that we are interested in the consolidation of ownership, not in its further crumbling. I'm sure we'll still be discussing maintenance. Some of the proposals that modified the nutritious succeeded, others did not. The proposal that has succeeded is that those who are in default of payment of maintenance may be required to pay interest on late payment. I think it's probably logical, and that's why the committee agreed on it. We will discuss other proposals when they are read. An even more turbulent debate is likely to raise the question of who should decide on the location and relocation of children in diagnostic institutes and others. The debate won't be easy, because even the ministries here aren't in agreement. We have decided on the basis of the opinions of the various ministries. I would like to point out that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs strongly calls for us not to make a change so that decisions remain at the level of the courts at this time. The Ministry of Education was cautious, but this change was not hindered. There are, of course, reasons for and against. The main argument for, and this was the argument that convinced the committee, is that decision making is flexible and given the knowledge of specific children, not just some formal decision making in court. But this debate will continue. There are more proposals, and I'm sure we'll get back to them. We have also modified the question and strengthened the consumer's right to benefit from accommodation or transport or other services. There it simplifies the right to withdraw from such a contract. It is worth mentioning a change in rent, which concerns apartments of special destination, which I would probably comment on only then in my speech in the general debate, because it is my proposal and I also propose a minor adjustment in one number. I wouldn't hold off on the other speakers speaking now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u5	Thank you, too. And now I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Petr Bendl, take the floor and inform us of the committee's discussion and justify any amendments. Unfortunately, I do not see the Member here. In that case, I ask one of the members of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development to present a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, let me read the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development from the 43rd meeting. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development at its 43rd meeting after the justification of Mgr Michal Fraňek, Deputy Minister of Justice, after Mr Ing's intelligence report. Petr Bendl and, after the debate, adopted a resolution by which: I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies discuss and approve the 642 press in the submitted text, II. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the resolution, III. Instructs the Chair of the Committee to send the resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u7	Thank you for your cooperation, Mr. Ambassador. Before I open a general debate, I'll read an apology. Today, at 12 o'clock for personal reasons, Mr Grospič apologizes. I am opening a general debate in which I am registering several applications. Mrs Pastuchová will now be the first to speak, after which will be prepared by Mrs Aulická. Mrs Pastuchová is not here, so we will put her at the end of the debate. As I understand it, Mrs Pastuchová is sorry. So I'm going to erase it as a speaker. I will ask Mrs Aulická to speak, Mrs Nováková will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to comment on the amendment to the Civil Code. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also comment on the upcoming amendment to the Civil Code and on some amendments relating to the transfer of children by decision of the court versus the Director of the Diagnostic Institute. It is true that the regulation in the new Civil Code, i.e. that the transfer is decided only by the court, has in practice significantly extended the period of stay of children in diagnostic institutions. It is common for 6 to 8 weeks, but it is not an exception for a single year. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs argues on proposed changes that diagnostic institutes are not competent enough to decide on the degree of child behaviour disorders, which according to the Ministry of Labour is the main condition for placing a child in a constitutional facility. This is a medical diagnosis that should be assessed by a doctor, a psychiatrist. Here I am talking about placing children in a children's home with a school and an educational institution. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has long criticized that only children with educational protection should be placed in the educational institution. However, if we took the position of the Ministry of Labour, the network of diagnostic institutes would still have to have a contracted psychiatrist and that is another stumbling block. There are very few psychics in practice, waiting times for examinations are six months, but more. Therefore, we need to understand here that the OSPODs will have the child placed in a diagnostic institute on the basis of a preliminary measure of the court, because there they are sure that the child will pass through diagnostics and it will be designed in which type of device the child is to be placed, whether a child's home or an educational institution. And here's another stumbling block. If there were enough experts in the field who would diagnose the child, the OSPODs would not approach placing children in diagnostic institutions, but on the basis of their recommendations, including the recommendations of a psychiatrist, as the Ministry of Labour wishes, the courts would make proposals already for placing them in specific facilities, children's homes, children's homes with schools, educational institutions. [[11.50 hours]] From the director of children's homes, we know what it will do to children's groups when the child is placed directly, with considerable educational problems. However, I do not understand Minister Marksová' argument about this current system in practice in the letter sent to the Committee on Social Policy of July this year. I quote, "My information doesn't show any major problems in practice." And here may be the Council of Ministers to send their ministerial servants to a meeting of the directors of diagnostic institutes and other educational facilities with the OSPODs. In practice, this is precisely a major problem. That is why I am also proposing an amendment under number 4921. The aim of the amendment is to return the competence of the Director of the Diagnostic Institute to decide only on the transfer within the network of educational establishments for the exercise of constitutional and protective education. This will reduce the period of stay of children spent in a diagnostic institute, because it takes a long time for the courts to decide on the transfer. At the same time, it is not affected that children who do not exhibit behavioral disturbances can be placed directly in a child's home by a court decision, which means that there is no need for them to undergo diagnostics. The practice is that in children who appear to have behavioral disorders, it is advisable for them to pass diagnostics. Therefore, I propose to dismiss the competence of the Director of the Diagnostic Institute to decide on the initial location itself, as my colleague Válková has in her amendment, the placement in a specific facility, and to decide that by the court. On the contrary, the court can decide on a direct placement at the diagnostic institute and then, on the basis of the diagnosis, it will transfer the child to a suitable facility. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u9	Thank you for your contribution to the debate. Mrs Nováková will now appear and Mrs Maxová will be ready. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in a detailed debate, I will sign up to an amendment concerning Section 907. It's a section that deals with kids, care for their children after their parents break up. So far it says that a court can entrust a child or children to the care of one of the parents, if that is in favor, for the sake of the child, even to someone other than one of the parents. In essence, my amendment is that I put the child care model before my parents' breakup in common. And I'll explain what I mean right now. We already have in practice that some splitting parents will immediately come to court and agree on some form of joint custody. So it means that this joint care may quite calmly include, for example, some model of alternating care, but it is not a model of alternating care that we know can lead to such competition and transfer of children in the atmosphere of total antipathy. Why? Why am I seeking this? The proposed change is intended to help implement the parent's basic task and the parent's basic responsibility. By breaking up with his partner, the parent does not lose responsibility and responsibility for the subsequent upbringing and appropriate development of his child. This development always includes support, but also protection against harmful effects. No parent can do all this if he is not in adequate contact with the child so that he can directly affect his upbringing, because we cannot influence the child's upbringing when we do not know him properly when we do not know his joys, his worries when we do not know exactly what he is doing. We are not able to develop his talents, etc. In short, I cannot fulfill the responsibility for the proper development of the child when I am not in contact with the child. And the contact must not be limited to the fact that the child is passed on to me, as it often happens, the other parent doesn't communicate with me at all, so eventually, when he's with the other parent, he hears the worst about me. And actually, before it starts in a short period of time, when, for example, a parent who is not directly placed in custody before making the necessary contact, there is no time left for a positive effect on the child. That's one aspect. The other aspect, ladies and gentlemen, is that I am one of those who would like all families to be complete and work well. But I'm also a realist, and I know that basically half the families don't work according to the classic model we imagine families. At the same time, I think that if we want to talk about the child's interest, we can't leave his parents out of it, and we can't really leave out the support of those parents who used to love each other, and suddenly hate each other. But the company is supposed to do everything it can to help them, at least to communicate with each other as intelligently as possible for that child, so that they can't look at each other with glasses completely black when they've seen each other with pink glasses before. This is the fulfillment of their parental responsibility. And our state can do much for it. Today, we see in the media that one of the parents hates the other, basically filing criminal charges against him, and they treat each other terribly. That's got a terrible impact on the baby. But for a couple who are breaking up, it's not an easy time. I wouldn't just wipe out the people who are breaking up. Even for them, it's some kind of trauma, and they're carrying something negative into their next life, and of course it will indicate what model of the world they're passing on to their child. If this amendment is granted, and both the courts and the OSPOD, and all the elements have calculated that what is optimal is what is going on somewhere in practice, that the education will continue together and that parents are able to communicate with each other enough to decide who will ever have it, etc. But they will decide to do so, and we can help them do so at least by doing so, apart from the fact that the court and the OSPOD will do so. We often see today the OSPOD, which is the enemy of either both parents or one of the parents, at least that's how some of the workers act. So the minimum we can do for them is give a couple a free mediation service, psychological counseling. We just always have to work with the whole family. Only then can we say that we support something that is in the best interests of the child. Because I know that even if this amendment were approved, it means preferring common care, which, as I explain in my reasoning, does not mean caring in a common household, we are realistic and we understand that this is not possible, so if this is passed, there is no need to establish a new institution. However, it is necessary to set up an optimal communication environment between all those entering the process. And this also applies to lawyers, because lawyers often advise split-up couples to defamate the other side. And that's another thing that's terrible, too. So now it's about having enough time to set up the right communication mechanism for all the components that somehow affect couples and trusting in care, so that we can set up the right free mediation service, which basically consists in learning how to communicate well with each other, so that we can provide it to the split couple. And it's gonna take a little time. That is why my amendment envisages that efficiency could be shifted by, say, four or five years. I've been designing it for five years. [[12.00 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you to at least consider, when we are at third reading, that it is not just a child against parents, but that there are also parents who once lived in harmony or love, and we are supposed to help them to at least remain decent people who are able to communicate with each other. Otherwise, we cannot act in the best interest of the child. Thank you, I will sign up in a detailed debate on the amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u11	Good noon, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, we will continue. Thank you, Mrs Nina Nováková, for the performance. We continue with Mrs Radka Maxová's speech. We are in a general debate and I believe that we will be able to finish this. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I would just briefly like to mention my amendment, part of which, as the rapporteur said, has already been adopted by the constitutionally-legal committee, and this is the introduction of interest on delays when an irresponsible parent does not pay maintenance. The second part of this amendment is that it is currently unclear whether the maintenance due can be passed on to a third party who would, of course, be better off for recovery. There are two views in the Czech Republic. One is that, of course, the claim is not proccessible. And the second, if the claim is due and specifically quantified, the transfer ban does not apply, and we can therefore refer it to a third party. This is what I propose to insert into the new provision of Section 921a, which I declare the possibility of handing over claims due on maintenance claims. This could improve...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u13	I understand, Madame. I believe that colleagues will calm down, or maybe the debates will be transferred to the foyer. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u14	Thank you. Improve the status of part of entitled persons to whom maintenance is not paid by means of the possibility that their claim could be taken over for remuneration by another entity. In my original proposal, which had already been discussed by the Constitutional Committee, the assignment of the claim was in full. However, following the discussion with the maintenance organizations, I have today introduced a second amendment which regulates the value of the referral on the day on which both parties reach an agreement of 90 per cent. And it is really based on a discussion with the Association of Single Families, which have a relatively high success in the recovery of maintenance, although, as they claim, they do not succeed 100% in all cases. However, they said that the 90% value of the claim was accepted. Specifically, they said that it would be good to put 80 per cent in there, but it already seems to me to be quite a big leap towards the mothers or fathers to whom maintenance is due. So I have two amendments, one in full and one in 90 percent. I must also point out that current, current legislation does not differ from some legislation abroad. In Germany, for example, the legislation agrees with our Czech legislation. Of course, there are also contradictions as to whether maintenance can be passed on to a third party or not. Finally, the caselaw ruled that, if the value of the claim is quantified, it is possible to pass on the maintenance due. The Austrian regulation excludes the possibility of transfers of rights which are inseparably linked to a person who dies. The theory also ranks among those rights the right to maintenance, the caselaw and doctrine, however, again allowed an exception to the prohibition. At the time when the maintenance claim is due and determined in money, its amount is quantified and the claim becomes progressive. It is a specific decision of June 29, 1983. Therefore, I would very much like the Constitutional Committee and you, colleagues, to think really about whether this is the way to improve the recovery of maintenance. I've discussed this problem with the Justice Department. The amendment shall be drawn up on the basis of my cooperation and their cooperation. We discussed it with my colleague Zavadil. I think that concrete steps have been taken, as last week or before last, in the constitutional law committee, the possibility of compensating victims of crimes that are not paid maintenance, from a fund where money from the sale of property from crime will be paid. So I would very much like us to discuss these two amendments on the board of the Constitutional Legal Committee as well. The claim can be transferred for remuneration, as I said, either 100% or 90%. The specific beneficiary shall receive an equivalent of 100 per cent or 90. That is probably all to justify my amendment. I will sign up for it in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u15	Thank you, Mrs Radka Maxová. It is now time for my colleague Karel Fiedler to prepare his colleague Marek Benda. But he will, because after Mr. Fiedler with priority rights, the secretary is applying. I'm sorry, Madam Secretary, I didn't see you until after Mr. Fiedler signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In my contribution, I would focus on the concept of federal law, which is also contained in the Civil Code and, as of 1 January 2014, have plunged the previously established organizational units of associations into certain legal uncertainty. Organisational units of civil associations established under the Association Act before 31. 12. They have always been autonomous entities with full legal personality. Since 1990, the legal regulation of federal law has introduced and fully respected the association autonomy of organisational units of civil associations. In Article 19a, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 existed until 31. 12. As amended by: "The legal person's capacity to acquire rights and obligations may be limited only by law'. There is no way they guaranteed a full standing before 31. 12. 2013, I mean, those associations or their sub-units, they've been compromised without their expression of will. Paragraph 19a of Law No. 40/1964, or its equivalent in the amendment to the Civil Code, is completely absent. The absence of such a fundamental provision in the amendment to the Civil Code or its equivalent confirms the publication of the New Civil Code, comparison of the existing and new civil regulations, including the related regulations. On the contrary, the legislation of the NOZ contains in its provision § 228 para. The second sentence of the second completely opposite meaning of the legislation of the subsidiary group than it has been guaranteed since 1990 when it states that "the subsidiary may have rights and obligations and acquire them to the extent specified by the statutes of the main association registered in the public register'. That's where the "rules of the main club" is important. The need to adapt the existing provisions of the amendment to the Civil Code in the light of the proposed amendment is also due to the fact that branches with full legal personality, many of which have voluntarily established their historically younger main associations in the past, in order to fulfil their common interests, are threatened by (a) the loss of all their assets, modern expropriation, realized through arbitrary limitation or withdrawal of their rights by the main associations, which is in direct contradiction with the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, which guarantees in Art. 11 the same legal content and protection of ownership rights of all owners. [[12.10 hours]] Or (b) by breaching the federal autonomy of the various branches through unauthorised interference by the main associations, including to their member base, which is contrary to the provisions of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 20 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, which guarantees the right to gather freely. Or (c) the disappearance or liquidation as such of the decisions of the main associations, without expressing the will of the subsidiary associations. Here I have a somewhat different opinion from the rapporteur, who spoke in his introductory words about the fact that it is particularly about priority of the principle of ownership, which I think, or I am fully convinced that this is not the right view of the matter. It is also apparent from the above that the existing provision of Paragraph 230 NZ must be amended, in which the nature of the case must give the subsidiary a full legal personality in breach of its main association the freedom to decide whether or not to use one of the above options to deal with its existence in accordance with the principle of federal autonomy. This is very important, because if the headquarters were to cease, it does not have to be agreed by their own associations, which previously had autonomy and legal personality prior to the acquisition of this efficiency. Colleagues and colleagues, I briefly introduced you to the justification for the amendment I recorded. Its essence is, in simple terms, it is contained then in more paragraphs that the organizational units of the association eligible to act on their behalf pursuant to Act No. 83/1990 Coll., on the association of citizens, as amended, are newly inserted, have full legal personality and are further considered as subsidiary associations under this Act. There is also a reference to another § 228, 229, 230. Everything is mentioned in the amendment that is in the system. And part of the reason that he has come to know you about, the detailed, complete justification is in the Houses of the Press, to which I will, of course, sign up in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u17	I thank Mr Karel Fiedler. Now with priority rights, Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs, Michaela Marksová. You have your word, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u18	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Members, I would like to express my fundamental opposition here to the transition of the power to decide on the specific facility in which children will be placed back from the courts to the diagnostic institutes. Certainly, our judicial decisions in custody matters are not ideal here in general, and I believe that if at least they are not specialised senators, as is the case in most developed European countries, the situation will not improve dramatically, but that is a slightly different debate. But what I believe is that the situation of children will in no way improve if we take it out of court now. A colleague of mine came up with an analogy. It's like the wardens of the detention prisons are deciding which prison the convict will then enter. I would also like to remind you that both the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms and the Convention on the Rights of the Child really require that a court, without exception, decide to remove the child from the care of his parents and place him in some form of substitute care. And also this proposal is a return to the past. It's a return to a practice that was cancelled, I think, sometime in 2012. I would also like to point out that, at this point in time, about seven eight thousand children would decide the fate of 12 heads of diagnostic institutions, actually relatively untransparably. It should also be stressed that the administrative districts of the 12 diagnostic institutes are set quite widely in the implementing decree of the Ministry of Education, so theoretically it may be possible that the director of the diagnostic institute here in the centre of Prague decides to place the child somewhere in a children's home in Cheb or in Vrchlabí. And actually, in administrative proceedings, someone will be able to appeal to the Ministry of Education, which, at the same time, will be appointed by these 12 heads of institutions, and it is a big question if your parents really wanted to challenge this decision, which court they should then challenge. There's no way this whole process is going to speed up. In the end, experience from the past is definitely here. So I really want to ask you not to accept this amendment. In addition, I must say that I believe that if this is a change, then there should have been a big debate with him and that our resort should have been invited to him as well. This does not, of course, apply formally to the Ministry of Labour, because it is indeed between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Education, but this is about making decisions about children. It's a case of social-legal protection for children, and that's where our ministry belongs. And I must say that the Committee on the Rights of the Child at the Human Rights Council also expressed a fundamental disagreement with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u19	Thank you, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Michaela Marksová. We continue the debate with Mr Marek Benda's speech, and Mrs Helena Válková will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u20	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I said yesterday that I do not seem to like the House very much, so I have the impression that today it is no longer fun at all and that it is probably not the best idea to sit down so shortly before the elections, and in particular to discuss such fundamental standards as the amendment to the Civil Code. I would say in general that in the end, the Minister of Justice managed to maintain some degree of sobriety. The amendment in an attempt to change the Civil Code brings really only a few - in my opinion some of them are necessary - but a few minor interventions, and even the debate we are hearing here is basically limited to partial changes to the Civil Code and does not interfere with other parts. That's good. I think that if the standard of the character of the Civil Code has already been adopted, and you know well that I have been its supporter, I think that it is right and the professional public is slowly beginning to really learn it, it is slowly learning to be treated by the courts, so that interference with it should be as little as possible and should be really justified. Here I have one reservation, and that is a great reservation to what the Constitutional Legal Committee has done, when, after it has not passed the various circles of proposals in the government and before the government, it has re-established the legal pre-emptive right in the case of co-ownership. It is a matter that we had in the Czech legal order, which was quite deliberately decided and after very long debates that took place on the constitutional law committee during the last parliamentary term, we deliberately decided to let it go, to honor more ownership, more right of the owner to deal with his property than the right of the co-owner - you must not move me with the property that is yours. It looks like it's just a pre-emptive law, but it always means at least months of delay, at least months of delay, asking if they want to exercise the pre-emptive right. In many cases co-owners will say: we want to apply, and then they will actually say, it seems too difficult to do, we will not use it, but it has long since passed away. I find it very unfortunate in this very sober amendment to deal with such a fundamental matter as the pre-emptive right of co-owners. I think we should postpone it, let the law run normally. If, after five years, after ten years, it turns out to be creating some big problems, and I don't know about them yet, and if any problems were cited in the Constitutional Committee, they were problems, in particular, co-ownership of housing units, which this doesn't concern at all. But it doesn't matter at all. They are not co-ownership in this regard. And I can sell the apartment unit to anyone. It may sometimes be awkward that I sold it to anyone, but no regulation of the code in this part will help. [[12.20 hours]] So here I would ask that we vote separately on this part, on paragraph 4 of the Constitutional Committee, in the final vote. I'll point it out at the third reading. And I think it's a thing that should be adjusted separately. If this does not pass, I will at least propose that, in the final provisions that determine effectiveness, this part - the newly proposed point 4, the amendment points probably 8, 9, 10 and the Civil Code - should be included in the regime that takes effect up to 1. 1. 2018, because I think it is really unfortunate for such a fundamental change to take effect during the year. Two months after the law comes into force. If the House already has the will to approve the re-establishing of legal pre-emptive rights - which, of course, co-owners can negotiate, that is their business. The question is, should it be legal? If the House had this will, I would suggest that it be quite clear from the first year, that we are returning to the original concept, even though I consider it less happy. That's the first general remark. The second general point, and again the original proposal, and rather the justification for what I will then submit as proposals in a detailed debate. For my incomprehensible reason in an ever-increasing effort to protect children's rights, strengthen parents' rights, strengthen the rights of the state, intervene in the rights of children, today it has been mentioned in almost all previous speeches, always from a different perspective, someone's relationship to diagnostic institutions, someone's relationship to children, someone's relationship to maintenance, so one of the novelties brought by this amendment to the Civil Code is the amendment of Section 35 and permission for a minor who has not completed compulsory school attendance, to be able to commit to work dependent under another legislation. For me, the incomprehensible lobbying is probably the trade unionists and perhaps part of employers, which is supposed to lead to the only one that, while I'm still in school, I'm already fifteen, but I haven't completed my compulsory schooling, the ten-year-old so I can commit to joining the employer in question and it was binding on me. I just don't get it. I think the adjustment that has been so far is much better, which says he can commit after he's 15 years old and after he's completed compulsory schooling. He didn't have to go to the whole high school, of course. But he finished his mandatory schooling. And if he is less than 16, then if it is necessary for his education or education, parents have the right to untie such an affair. We pretend that children between the 15th and 18th years can't do a lot of things, they don't have a lot of rights, but for some reason employers are preferred here, or agreements with employers who are supposed to favor these employers and allow them to sign up for them while they are still in school, even before he has completed his compulsory schooling. Once again, I'm going to propose that we launch this point. I don't think he's been discussed enough. That he's not thought enough to be released. If we didn't want to release him and we wanted to remove legal representatives from the right to intervene in a child between the ages of 15 and 16, where he is employed, I could imagine that too. But I think the idea that someone is committed to doing dependent work in the future under a different law before completing compulsory schooling seems very unacceptable to me. The other points I will suggest in a detailed debate are more of a detailed nature. All I would like to draw attention to is point 16 of the original government proposal, which is proposed to reduce the possible - and again I say possible, not as much as possible, not compulsory bail on the rent due in the case of the rental of the housing unit from six times to three times. Again, it is a matter that has been very widely discussed in the Civil Code. Makes sense. The only way to reduce it is to go around. We well know that it was in the past. That there were other ways to make sure that the rent was paid to me. I think the landlord has some right to secure his future claims. If the tenant makes a deal with him or doesn't make a deal with him, it's totally his business. Whether the rent's monthly or three months, or six months, it's totally his thing. But why a law that really tries to be minimalist in the impact on the Civil Code is going from six months to three months as the maximum possible rent that can be demanded I don't understand. And I think, frankly, in the end, these are always provisions that are harder on the poorer or the people in a more complex social situation. Because they look like they want to help them, but they can't help them at all. Thank you for your attention and I will make detailed proposals in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u21	I thank Mr Marek Benda. Now, in the general debate, Mrs Helena Válková - but before her with priority right, the rapporteur will speak. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u22	Thank you for the floor. I would like to follow up on my colleague Benda, who spoke about the pre-emptive law, so that we do not jump from one subject to another. At this point, I would like to say that I consider the return of pre-emptive rights essential precisely because the pre-emptive right should never have been abolished. I think it worked. It didn't cause any problems. And if it did, that is, it prolonged, for example, the time of the sale, then it was definitely balanced by the fact that there were no situations where e.g. one of the co-owners sold without consent, below the price, in quotation marks, either fictitiously or directly, the co-ownership share e.g. in the family house, let's say, less adaptable, which, in turn, by acting, forced the other co-owner to sell their share below the price. Similarly, a share of the family house may be sold to someone who is not interested in maintaining it, and it will mean another dispute with the existing owner. I don't think there's anything against it if the other co-owner has the right to sell if someone wants to sell the second share to offer it to the other owner first. And if he refuses, at a price equal or higher, he can sell to anyone else. I don't think there's anything too complicated about that. I don't want it to be a battle of the idea view. I think it's more of a practical point of view. I stress rather an effort to cement the ownership than to distribute it. But I understand that there can be different views. I would also like to refute what has been said in the debates in the constitutional law committee that perhaps there will be some pre-emptive law that would not appear elsewhere. I would like to say that the new Civil Code has introduced pre-emptive law by law, as we intend to introduce it to all co-ownership. He introduced it for those who have either a building on a foreign property or they have a plot and on it stands a foreign building in relation to these two buildings. In this sense, I think that from a legislative point of view therefore it is possible to reintroduce, although I understand theoretical reservations as to whether it should be valid for the future or whether it should apply automatically from the moment the law is amended. [[12.30 hours]] Now, about that thing that concerns the rental of a special purpose apartment. This is an amendment which has already been adopted by the Constitutional Committee on my proposal at the initiative of the National Council of Disabilities. I will then sign up for an amendment replacing the word "nine" with the word "six" and explain what it is. We have adopted a change that is intended to enable disabled people who use special purpose apartments and those who live with them, with this disabled person, in the same household, so that they are not often exposed to the cruel fate of a tenant who has obtained the sole right of lease because he has been disabled, dies and subsequently those who live with him in a common home must leave the apartment within three months. I think it is wrong, at the death of a loved one, for us not only to ask ourselves, in such a short period of time, a question of life at all, then a funeral, and still to look for an apartment and move in. That's why we're proposing a change. That would be about two things, actually. On the one hand, that - and the committee proposes within six months - the deadline would be extended from three to six months for those living in a common household. I'll design nine months. However, the substantial change that the committee has agreed on, and I am happy about it, is that for those who lived in a common home and have more than 70 years of age or are disabled, they would automatically transfer from the law to the rental of this apartment and thus allow them to stay in the apartment, or they could conclude an agreement with the landlord that they would be provided with another suitable apartment, but with their consent. So that's a change that I think can help the disabled. We have, of course, noted the reservations of some landlords, but I want to say that these are municipalities, maybe 90 percent of the cases. And I believe that municipalities have, if they have not disposed of the housing fund, enough opportunities to address this situation and do not have to expose disabled people or persons over 70 years of age to leave the apartment just because the tenant who was disabled died at the end of his life. So this is a thing that, I believe, will receive support, and so I dare - then I will apply to this proposal, which extends six months to nine, but it concerns only those who, as I have already said, "just" lived in a common home and are not disabled and are not over seventy years old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u23	I thank the rapporteur and now, before Mrs Válková's point of fact... [[A Member of the War comes to the speaker's desk.]] My colleague, just a moment longer, Mrs Hnyková's factual comment, which, of course, as with every point of fact, I will limit the time of the performance to two minutes and you will see your performance. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I'm sorry, I didn't get a chance to sign up in front of Mr Benda. I'd like to get back to Secretary Marksová' performance. I drive and familiarize myself not only with the issue of children's homes but also with the diagnostic institute. And to any children's home where I'm going, the first thing I'm going to say, please, do something to make sure that children who have educational problems or other problems are diagnosed first, and then put into the care of those children's homes, because we have big problems with that. I am very glad that my colleague, Mrs Válková, Aulická, has tabled amendments here, we can, of course, discuss this. I'm glad we put him at the meeting of the Social Policy Committee. But I think if I transfer it to my profession as a nurse, I think it's always important for the diagnostics to know how to deal with the child in children's homes, how to treat it, how to treat it. And I think it's very important to the baby. In addition, diagnostic institutes also methodically run the children's homes, provide them, cooperate very intensively with them. And I think that not everything is what was wrong before, and that some things should be corrected, such as the Education Act, about sisters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u25	Thank you for your time on the point of fact, and now Mrs Helena Válková with her speech. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I should thank the previous speaker for making me such a very, very good centre of practice. I also, as I teach in the Department of Social Work, can support her knowledge from practice and academic teaching, when, in essence, why I talk about this, I teach people who then run social work agendas including OSPOD and have very good information and very good knowledge of what they are able to assess and what they do not. And now I'm gonna get to our problem. The amendment to the Civil Code, which we have on our table, is indeed one of the most modest. And I am very pleased because so far there has not been enough time to have the right time to intervene more fundamentally and conceptually or to adopt some conceptual changes to the Civil Code. The amendment that I am defending here is part of this kind of amendment, which actually only corrects certain shortcomings that have occurred in the best intention of ensuring even more child rights, the best interests of children, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which we are also bound by. But not always a court that decides on the rights of a child, and in this regard it is children with serious behavioral disorders, it is the best body in their interest to assess risks even in the future, the nature of behavioral disturbances and to take into account the factual capacity, expertise, what we have at our disposal in the field of treatment. Traditionally, it was diagnostic equipment in the Czech Republic. Moreover, the diagnostic facilities have recently admitted changes, even with regard to child treatment standards in school establishments. It regulates a very detailed decree issued on 1 February 2016 - Procedure of Diagnostic Institutes, Decree of the Minister of Education No. 5/2016, if any of you wanted to track it down. So the proposal simply returns the current state to a state that was at the end of 2013, before the new Civil Code became effective, when the specific inclusion of a child with a laid constitutional education into that particular facility was decided by a diagnostic institute after diagnosis of the nature of its behavioral disorders. It is to be recalled here that, until now, no one has questioned the decisions made by the diagnostic institutes when deciding which device a child with a stored protective education is to be placed in. So it is often not necessary to have a child examined in a diagnostic institute, and then they are obliged to deal with the claims made by the representatives of the OSPOD, which - I know from experience, the honourable and kind Madam Secretary through Mr President - is not always completely balanced and expert, as we would like to have in the territory of the Czech Republic. Just the level and quality of the OSPODs is different. And I think what really happens here is that we want more from him than we can possibly want. Thus, diagnostic devices, which should primarily be used to diagnose the behavioral disorder and the appropriate classification of the child, do not have to be subjected to the so-called "game," do not have to have the child examined there, but must take into account the evaluation of the OSPOD, which is not equipped to do so. [[12.40 hours]] The result is that the courts decide reluctantly, embarrassingly, slowly. What I am presenting here is also the opinion of the supervisory courts that have asked me to interpret on their behalf that they would like to give up this competence in favour of diagnostic institutions, that is to say, what specific facilities the child will be included in, and to decide really only on the regulation of constitutional education. First of all. Two. I was present at the meeting of the Child Rights Committee. There were also a number of comments in favour of the former model and in favour of the existing one. Children are gathered in facilities where they would need to be abandoned in connection with school leaving and transferred to another facility. Courts can't make it. That's another thing. What should also be said here is that the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Education have no problems with the amendment. Only the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has enough incomprehensible reasons out of me that are based on purely formally judicial arguments of the type that the court is the best institution and body to decide on the child. The fact that in practice this leads to a situation where the child is somewhere where it should not be, that his transfer is decided slowly and tediously and that those who decide on it would like to give up on this in favour of the more professionally equipped institutions is kept silent by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. That's what I wanted to point out in my performance. At the same time, I also took into account the comment that I took into account in the last amendment when the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs pointed out that children under the age of three, or so-called. Baby constitutions, there is no diagnostic device that could or should rule on the place of the courts, so there would be a minimum of children - because it is based on the principle that a child does not belong in constitutional institutions within three years, and if so, the courts would continue to decide. The same applies to the location in social services facilities, such as children with an autistic spectrum disorder, with aggression in behavior where the child does not want to receive the device, the family needs it, so they turn to the court and, of course, it has expert opinions to place such a child in a constitutional facility. I'm done. Therefore, I beg you to support this amendment and allow children to be decided competently using expertise, quickly and flexibly to respond to its development by moving it without the unnecessary delays that are now taking place into its optimal facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u27	Thank you, Mrs Helena Válková. We now have Mrs Marta Semelová's point of order. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u28	Thank you. I just wanted to support what was said here from the mouth of Mrs Válková and, ultimately, my colleague Aulická. Practice shows that the system for allocating children to foster parents, social, health and school facilities by judicial means is incredibly inflexible. Kids are stuck in diagnostics and waiting for months to decide the court. And it's not just about placing the children. Courts also decide on relocation when a child goes to study at another end of the Republic, needs a change of home, just can't do it. Second point. The current system is not only inflexible, but, paradoxically, it is much worse at expert level than it was before. The courts decide only on the basis of the statements of the OSPODs, which are mostly very overloaded and basically resign to determining the reality of the child, promised expert opinions are not given by the courts themselves. That means the courts and the OSPOD, it doesn't work here. This often individual child protection plan is usually a one-page formality; it cannot be compared to such honest work by psychologists, ethopeds, social workers in diagnostic institutions. And the third point. The argument that children will only go to school institutions is an odd argument. OSPODs have the legal priority of foster family care over institutional care. So he needs to be bailed out, looking for foster parents. It is a big paradox that they often place children in so-called. ZDVOPs are social facilities for children requiring immediate care, such as kangaroos, and children are actually in institutional care. Is that okay? I don't mean to lower the level of DPHs, of course, but I'm sure it's not the way it should work in the child's interest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u29	Thank you, Mrs Marta Semelová. One more point in fact, Mrs Hana Aulická. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd just follow up on my colleague Semelová. It is really important that we re-engage in the system of decision-making on children of the diagnostic constitution, because, as I said in my speech, children are really being put into those diagnostic institutes in the preliminary measure, but unfortunately, thanks to the fact that, once again, where it will be placed afterwards, the court decides again, so unfortunately, the stay of the child is very long and unnecessary. As I mentioned, a year really is no exception. Of course, the courts argue, we want opinions, but the reviews are also long-term. We have few people who can process these assessments. And I must say that I am actually losing the best interest of the child from the Minister's outputs and the legislative preparations we know about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u31	Thank you, Mrs Aulická. Now Mr David Kasal also made a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u32	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I'd just loosely follow up on the previous speaker. There the time factor is really very important because especially in children with autistic spectrum disorder any withdrawal from the environment that is important to them is very difficult and these children can very often end in tragic terms. I would also follow up on what we discussed here on Tuesday, when education will change significantly, and the emphasis is placed on children's psychiatrists, which we have little. We have about 60 of them all over the country, and only ten of them can diagnose autism correctly. And those autistics are supposed to be almost 50 or 80 grand. So the inequality is huge. From this point of view, you can see that these two things have a strong bearing on each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u33	Thank you, Mr David Kasal. Madam Secretary. We are still in the general debate. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u34	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to point out that, first of all, the change does not guarantee me that these children will be staying somewhere shorter. If that were the case, I don't think anyone would have a problem with it. And I would also like to remind you that transferring a child to another institution is actually a change in the destination of the child's home. And the Civil Code expressly states that the designation of the place of residence is considered to be an important matter concerning the child. And all these important matters under the law are decided only by parents as legal representatives of the child, or in cases where parents do not decide or exercise their responsibilities properly, the court decides. This means that the situation where Mrs Nováková wants to move with a child from Prague 1 to Prague 10 and the father of the child does not agree with it is decided by the court. And what we want here right now is for a very serious thing like moving a child from one end of the republic to the other, for example, such cases are, are they constantly, so suddenly this court isn't going to decide? It really seems very, very bad to me about the rights of those children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u35	Thank you, Minister. Now also the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to delay the debate, but that's why I'm performing. I think that this debate will certainly not be over today, and I would like to ask everyone to come to the constitutional committee if they are interested. We will specially focus on this matter, we will invite, of course, a representative of the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Justice. We're definitely going to focus on this point specifically. So if you are interested, let us debate in committee to be able to negotiate this point today because the end of the negotiations is near. Of course, I do not want to defend myself from this debate, but I offer this possibility. We will certainly get to this very soon at the constitutional committee's meeting, where we will take positions on these amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u37	I thank the rapporteur and ask who else will be in the general debate. Another colleague, Miroslav Opálka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. It's more of a short remark, but let it be. When the rapporteur spoke about how this will be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee, I would like to point out that this will also be dealt with by the Social Policy Committee on its own initiative, namely 6. Ten, I'm guessing 11 o'clock in Konírna. So if there is any interest on your part, we will consider these two proposals from my colleague Válková and colleague Aulická Jírovcová. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u39	I thank my colleague Opálek. This is, of course, possible, the procedure under the Rules of Procedure, but at second reading - or after the end of the detailed debate at second reading, the guarantee committee is decisive, that is, the Committee of Constitutional Law. I hope we have the same resolutions. If no one else applies to the general debate, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? It's not like that. Mr. Rapporteur? It's not like that. I am opening a detailed debate in which I have eight applications. The first entry is, as she announced in the general debate, Mrs Nina Nováková. A colleague Pastuchová will be prepared, respectively. someone who - yes, colleague Maxová, who certainly took over her proposal. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for an amendment that has already been introduced into the system under the number 4689. This amendment concerns § 907 - the joint care of parents in raising children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u41	Thank you, Mrs Nina Nováková. Now, then, Mrs Radka Maxová, on behalf of Mrs Pastuchová, as she was registered. I respect your agreement. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u42	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to sign up for Mrs Pastuchová's amendment, which is registered under number 4827.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u43	Thank you. Now, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u44	Thank you for the floor. I would like to confess to my amendment under number 4921. Article 971 (1) (a) of the CRR. 4.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u45	Thank you, Mrs Aulická. Now even my colleague Maxová, this time with her amendment. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u46	Yes, that's right, Mr President. I would like to sign up for my two amendments. One amendment is introduced under number 4947 in the system - namely, I subscribe to the second part of it, Section 921a, because the first part has already been adopted. And the second time I apply to the amendment under number 4859, also to the second part of it, that is to say, § 921a. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u47	Thank you, Mrs Radka Maxová. Now, my colleague Pavel Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u48	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I will also sign up for an amendment that has already been put into the system under number 4686. It relates to Section 164 of the Civil Code, the reasoning is written there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u49	Thank you, my colleague Blažek. Now, Mr Karel Fiedler, in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u50	Thank you for the floor. Me, too, very quickly. I have put forward a justification for the amendment in the general debate, or I am signing up for my amendment, which is registered under number 4894 in the House system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u51	I thank my colleague Fiedler. Now, my colleague, Marek Benda, in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u52	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, everyone is making this extremely easy for the rapporteur because they have everything in the system, which I am not, and I am a lazy person, so I will have to tell the rapporteur here on the microphone. I will repeat the proposals I made at second reading, reading in the framework of the Constitutional Legal Committee, which I justified here in this general debate. Variantly to point 1 of the original government proposal. Point 1 is deleted. If such a will is not in this House, as is the option - point 1 reads: Paragraph 35 releases paragraph 2. - She would have stayed there protecting a minor until she graduated primary school, but it wouldn't have been there, that special provision, for the possibility of parental testimony. That's the first suggestion. The second proposal - to point 13 of the original government proposal, to launch this point 13, that is one of the changes in trust funds. I don't question the others, even though I think they're threatening to make trust funds into something that's still invincible. However, the identification of the envisaged effective only at the moment when it is entered in the register of trust funds, I think it can significantly complicate the cases of trust funds that are intended for a closer and unspecified circle of imagined funds. The final proposal for the original government proposal is to drop point 16 of the original government proposal. That's her bail on the rent and her reduction from the possibility of six times to the possibility of three times. These are three proposals for the original government bill. Then I asked that when we voted at second reading on paragraph 4 of the Constitutional Law Committee, this amendment, which regulates the pre-emptive right to co-ownership, should be voted separately. If the proposal were approved by this House, I propose that we change the effectiveness of Article 9, by taking effect on the 60th day following its publication, with the exception of the provisions of Article 1, point 19, Article 2, point 5, which take effect on the day of its publication. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Here it would be supplemented - the article of the first points probably 8 to 10, because we have them without numbers so far, but it concerns simply that point 4 of the resolution of the Constitutional Legal Committee. To also abolish legal pre-emption law, virtually. re-establishing the legal pre-emption law was clear to 1. 1. 2018. I hope that it is sufficiently clear what I am proposing here in the debate, and that, if necessary, we will specify this on the committee when the figures are clear, which, of course, cannot yet be clear in the committee report, because it is unclear what will pass and what will not pass. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u53	I thank Mr Marek Benda. Now in a detailed debate, Mrs Helena Válková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I am applying to my amendment inserted into the system under number 4769. And all I'm saying is that it's three parts. In the first part it is an amendment to § 971 para. 4 of the Civil Code. In the second part, it is stated that Article 4 (2) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v)))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)))))))))))))) (v)))))))))) (v) (v) And as far as the third part is concerned, there is a significant change that would imply that the powers of decision-making on the placing of a child in a particular facility would be removed from the courts and transferred to diagnostic institutes. So part eight would be inserted behind the seventh amendment, which would change the law on the exercise of institutional education or protective education in educational establishments and preventive educational care in educational establishments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u55	Thank you, Mrs Helena Válková. Jan Farský, from the point of view, is still reporting for a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u56	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for the 4944 amendment, which is read in this way in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u57	Thank you. I'm asking who else to discuss in detail. Now, then, the rapporteur. Please, co-worker Tejc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u58	Thank you. I am referring to my amendment, which I have already justified in the general debate, under number 4886, and I would like to make sure that we have a choice in terms of efficiency, to propose an amendment in which we would deal with it, and that is the question of effectiveness, with this law taking effect. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000000. Annex II, points 2 to 4, 2nd subparagraph of Article 2 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 is replaced by the text set out in the Annex to this Regulation. Annex V.Part 2.41 (b) This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). So many amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u59	I thank my colleague Tejc. Who else in the detailed debate? A colleague of Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u60	I'm just responding to my colleague's performance. Teaks, so that we don't accidentally get in trouble, that I put my proposal in effect. I therefore propose that the proposal for effectiveness, which proposes to postpone the effectiveness of the re-establishing of legal pre-emptive rights in co-ownership, should this proposal be voted on by Mr Tejc as an amendment to him. This means not only the original proposal of the Constitutional Legal Committee, but also the proposal submitted by Mr Tejc. Otherwise, I think it's a pretty big optimism that we think it's by 1. 1. 2017 we will discuss how I know this House. But I am willing to accept this optimism of the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-006-021.u61	Thank you. I don't have another application. I'm gonna ask you again if anyone's checking in. No one's coming forward, I'm ending the debate in detail. I ask if there is interest in the final words - Minister, rapporteur? It's not like that. There is nothing to vote on, there is no procedural proposal that is voted on at second reading. That's why I'm ending second reading at 21, print 642. We can continue with point number
