ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-001-147.u1	147. Government bill on trust services for electronic transactions /German press 763/ - third reading I ask that the rapporteur's seat be taken by the Minister of the Interior and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mrs Kovářová. The amendment is published in press 763/4. It was delivered on May 26th. The guarantee committee resolution was delivered as press 763/5. I will ask the appellant if he wants to speak before the debate is opened. That's right. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-001-147.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, let me just briefly remind the Government's bill on trust services for electronic transactions. The proposed bill aims to adapt the legal order of the Czech Republic to the adoption of a Union regulation on electronic identifications and services that create confidence for electronic transactions in the internal market of the European Union. As regards the adaptation to the part of the regulation relating to electronic identification, it will be implemented separately, due to relative autonomy -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-001-147.u3	Minister, I am very sorry. I'm asking the groups to disband, and everyone else to keep their voices down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-001-147.u4	As regards the adaptation to the part of the regulation relating to electronic identification, it will be implemented separately, due to the relative autonomy of this issue and the later adaptation term. Everything else was mentioned in the introductory words on this subject. I agree with the amendment contained in the resolution of the Guarantee Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-001-147.u5	Thank you, Minister. I'm opening the debate. I have an application for it. It is Mr Pilný's application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-001-147.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, esteemed colleagues, colleagues, esteemed members of the government. I am performing at third reading because an accompanying resolution has also been adopted in the guarantee committee, with which only the members of the guarantee committee present and not the Chamber of Deputies had the opportunity to meet. The first thing I would like to say is that this law is not an electronic identity law. I'll get to the explanation. It can be said that this is the transposition of the European directive in the so-called minimalist version, which means that it is essentially, you could say, nothing. When I was looking for a parallel, what the law was about, I thought of a movie that you saw, Chief, flee, and there Mr. Abrhám says about the Velorex cart: "It's a rag, it won't hurt what it touches, it polishes." Unfortunately, this law does not have that character, because there are three things in it that go beyond the framework of the European directive. The first thing is open data. In addition to the fact that it does not belong to this law at all and the eIDAS Directive does not require such a thing, it actually prevents discussion of what is open data, because it can be used not only for commercials, but also for the benefit of its citizens. And most of that data is no longer actually generated by humans, but it's generated by automatons. The discussion just didn't take place. The second thing that is not included in that directive is the allocation of further commercial activities to the authorities of the state administration. Thanks to our adoption of the service law, which has concreted the admission procedures for the state administration, we are very often taking the detour that corrects it. This is how we divided CzechInvest, we created a state enterprise from Czech Post and now we are giving other commercial activities to the state administration. In addition to the fact that this is wrong, because the amendment to the Service Act is correct, this issue also brings so-called inhouse solutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-001-147.u7	Colleagues, colleagues, once more, and I hope for the last time, I ask for peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-001-147.u8	Inhouse solutions have one major flaw, namely that they circumvent the law on public procurement. I could name a number of examples here when that happened, but I won't hold them up. It's just a loophole, even if it's used as an inhouse solution. The third thing that concerns the accompanying resolution of the guarantee committee is a signpost that points to the so-called electronic ID card with a chip. At the seminar initiated by the Minister of the Interior, there was a demonstration of what the electronic citizen could possibly do. You can easily put an electronic ID in your pocket, but you will not put it in any device that you have in your bags or on your benches. Even though Principal Vrba said so, I haven't seen a machine like this in a long time. That means you're going to have to buy a piece with a suspender that costs about CZK 200 or 300, and you're going to put that ID card in if you want to use it. There's no other way. This must have been done by the Estonec, who are the furthest in using the plastic card with the chip. Of course, the technology is outdated and there are solutions that are considerably simpler. In order not to give a lecture here about what it is, let's just think about how many times you've had to prove your identity today. You needed to get into the car, you needed to get into the House, maybe into your office, you put in a voting card here, maybe some of you connected to the House of Deputies website, some of you connected to Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn and other things, some of you may have run out of money, so they had to go to an ATM, or even run some electronic banking transaction. In all these cases, you had to prove your identity in a different way each time. This law and the chip citizen simply don't solve this problem. What this problem can solve is when you reach into your pocket or look at your desk, so there's a magical device, a cell phone that can do all this. It can already do much more complicated things than it is currently possible thanks to the apps. Just attach a finger to it or use another way of identifying yourself, and all of these problems are solved. I do not believe that the Ministry of the Interior and its workers, when they have failed to deal with the electronic identity of the eIDAS directive for many months, that they will be able to do so within a few months, to which they are called upon by the accompanying resolution of the guarantee committee. But that's not important, because it's not really about an electronic citizen who reminds us a little bit of Opencard in the way she was presented, except the experiment will be much more expensive and will involve almost every citizen of the Czech Republic. That is why I cannot vote in favour of this law. Of course, it is up to you to follow either politics or the content of this law, which is really pointless. And useless laws are just expensive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-001-147.u9	Thank you and please Mr Bendl, who is the last person to sign up for the debate so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-001-147.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, colleagues, I will start with a positive start in the sense that I will thank the Minister for the fact that the seminar finally took place at the level of the Committee on Public Administration and Economic Committee on this subject and on a more comprehensive subject including eIDAS and everything related to it on the floor of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development - and therefore unfortunately my positive assessment must end. And I am very sorry, Minister - I am deeply convinced that if you were there at the seminar, you would have seen the misery. The questions that fell and were factual were not that we were there to play who was from, which, after all, was confirmed by Mr Pilný's fellow Member here, when we asked questions about the matters relating to this law, because his existence only fills up some pseudocondition of the European Union, which we are not yet convinced, but does not really move us anywhere in the field of electronic communication. And what was even worse when we asked where other supplementary laws were to be discussed, given that the Chamber of Deputies will end its term next year, which means that, thanks to legislative deadlines of at least six, seven months before the elections, no law will be possible to discuss, and after the elections at least six, seven months will not be possible to discuss any law, so in the field of electronic communication... The Minister does not listen to me, it may not be important to him, but believe me, however important this may be for most of you here, so for the functioning of public administration, electronicisation and for the functioning of the commercial sphere in the area of electronic communication used by citizens, this is important. For the Home Secretary, I have a feeling this is a priority 59. After all, it is obvious that we are actually dealing with this at the last minute, at the end of the term of office, and there is the material that the Ministry of the Interior has forced, or the European Union has actually forced, the Ministry of the Interior to present. If this did not happen, we did not move at all, while the other countries around us, at least for all I will name Slovakia, do something in the area of eGovernment. The Home Office obviously doesn't pay much attention to this issue. And it was also reflected in the joint meeting of two committees, or if you want a seminar that the Czech Republic is falling deeper and deeper compared to the modern world in the field of electronic communication when compared to others, and it is because we are not doing anything. It's kind of a military system - it's supposed to be in a hurry, and it's in a hurry to be expected, but it doesn't actually solve anything. We asked about the dates when the electronic ID bill would be submitted if you could make it by 31. 12th or better by October, according to my deep conviction, otherwise we will not be able to approve at all at some reasonable time. We have not received any relevant information on how this is prepared, as well as on other things that have been mentioned - electronic seal, electronic stamp, e-signing law, etc. These are things that need to be added to this material. And then the practical use, he talked about it, Mr. Pilný. We're all actually waiting for the Ministry of the Interior to come up with a simple guide on how to use the ID for the future. The fact that this isn't the modern technology that the Home Office is counting on, that's basically what everyone agreed on there, but the Ministry says it's a conservative approach, that it's such a greater certainty, but what Mr. Colleague here said is what people are paying for today when they want to get a citizen's ID with a so-called chip. They pay $500, and it's no use to them. And in the future, we found out that it wasn't really gonna do them any good either, regardless of the fact that they're gonna have to get another machine - a shoelace box or as it was said here, which nobody really knows at this point. And it's a thing that when we figure it out, it's really going to be alive. We want, in simple terms, a practical tool for a citizen to present an ID when he comes somewhere, a clerk to put an ID in the appropriate instrument and be able to say yes, I have all the documents that I need at my disposal. What the state knows about me will be on that card if it is not able to do the individual registers - and it is seen that way after all - the state is unable and the Prime Minister is unable to force other ministers to communicate with each other, everyone is in a different system, so the state is unable to ensure that the data he has about the citizen is not wanted from the citizen again and again. You come to one office, and the clerk says to you, "Bring me three more documents from other state authorities." That's how it is. We call for it, and across the political spectrum, so that we have one document, at least, if you're not able to do it with the registers, so that we have one document, in which everything will be in, and everyone at home doesn't have to search for all the documents and the like and go around to verify that it's really true that the state already has the information and confirms that it has the information to be able to put it somewhere. There is nothing going on here, Minister, but absolutely nothing, except this law, whose absence or existence will cause nothing to happen at all. But nothing at all, we're not moving anywhere, we're wasting our time. I, I have to say for myself, sorry, because you are a person who came from the public administration, as you do not consider it important, that in this area, when simplifying communication with the public administration, but of course the whole business system that works with us, which is trying to simplify and is actually a mile ahead of the state, how to work with data, whether it's a banking system, etc., we sleep in this. It's too bad. If this law doesn't exist, nothing will happen. And maybe it'll get you to move your bones and those laws we need for the ID bill, the electronic signature bill, etc. etc., all of these things were brought together to be able to - and believe that there is the will - to be able to discuss them during this parliamentary term and approve them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-001-147.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. There are two factual points, Mr Pilný, and then Mr Fiedler.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-001-147.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd just like to say that in the list of activities you've been doing today, none of them were about egovernment. None. It is not only because the eGovernment applications do not exist, but it is also because we rarely use them, and therefore the citizen will also be used, as it is in the surrounding states, to 5 to 7 percent. It's just expensive fun. There are much more modern ways these days. And what's important when the law is made up is a complete change of mind, because it's really not about the services of eGovernment, even though they're important and we need them, and the state is forcing us to deliver the data again. It is a fundamental change of mind, and unfortunately, the Ministry of the Interior and its staff are not taking this change of mind into account at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-001-147.u13	Mr. Fiedler, please. And before they arrive at the rhetorical site, I will apologize to Minister Stropnický from 9:30 to 12:00 for work reasons. Please, Ambassador, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-001-147.u14	Good morning. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm kind of in general. I'm listening to the debate, as I usually do, and I see a consensus here, a second time today, between the representative of the government party and the opposition party. It may shine on better times and there will be a little more pragmatic thinking and respect. Mr Pilný here in his opening speech said that this is approximation, transformation of European law, and that it is in a minimalist version, if I recall the exact words, and that this is about nothing. And a very similar statement was made by a colleague of Bendl, who said that if it was not accepted, nothing would happen at all, that nothing would happen at all. [[9.30 hours]] I just want us to realize that it is so often with European laws that they do - how much? 60 or 80 percent of the laws we accept? Or legal stuff? So let's remember what the words are. If we don't accept it, nothing will happen. I remember being here a while ago, and now I'm sorry, I really don't know what law it was, the term was on fire, we have to accept it, the European Union is pushing us to do it. It had to be, I guess, July. And then the petitioner said we'd be the third country to accept it. We're always pushing for something that we have to do, and then we find that if we don't accept it, that nothing will happen. So let's think about this, what stage we're at, and let's cut back on the unnecessary work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-001-147.u15	Thank you, too. I will ask if anyone else is joining the debate. If this is not the case, I am done with the debate. I will ask the Minister, or the rapporteur, for final words. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-001-147.u16	Mr President, honourable Members, this phone really serves a lot of things, and I have taken note of it, as Mr Pilný said through the President. When we boarded, this government boarded, we found a pretty messy system of registers, there were 154 of them at the Home Office, police had 75 of them, and they didn't talk to each other. This was the state in which the IT systems were located in the Ministry of the Interior. And the previous governments - I don't want to talk about what happened last time. We've been dealing with this for two and a half years, it's our responsibility, but in the past, and where I think we're supposed to go first and foremost, it's to communicate with each other. At least in the accounting, economic area, so that one day he can communicate with one another so that we can identify some of the deaf places that are in the economic sphere of the state. We haven't even moved there yet. The questions that were raised here. The I.D. Act that was discussed. Yesterday, negotiations were held with the ICT Union with Mrs Kovářová, and by the end of the year the law will be drawn up. As far as electronic citizens are concerned, we expect him to be in the Chamber of Deputies in September. As for the identity card itself, I understand that today modern touch technology is relying on the Internet. But the state must at least be partially conservative. There's got to be some kind of security. And I think that we need to go to a simple clean electronization when we need to know, know, have the tools to make these things not simply counterfeit, modifyable, that a conservative approach with the maximum use of modern technologies just pays off. As it is said here that the government doesn't care, it doesn't care, it was created by the Prime Minister's instigation of a government council that deals with it. There are individual steps to be taken to further expand eGovernment, and these steps that we are doing simply suggest this. The first thing I've declared here and promised by the end of the year, the law on electronic identification, the electronic citizen in September, and the next steps will follow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-001-147.u17	Thank you. I have here a factual remark from Mr Chalupa, but I have closed the debate, so if one of the members of the government does not open the debate, unfortunately I cannot give the floor. The rapporteur wishes the final word? It's not like that. And let me ask Mr Valenta, he is also the rapporteur. He's not interested. In that case, we will vote. I'll ring my co-workers in the lobby. I therefore ask the rapporteur to introduce us to the voting procedure, however simple it seems. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-001-147.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the procedure by which we will vote. Firstly, it is a proposal for technical adaptations, but they were not presented at the third reading; (b) the amendment contained in the resolution of the Guarantee Committee on Public Report and Regional Development number 206 of the 42nd meeting, held on 6 May 2016, which is House Press No 763/2; (c) we shall vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-001-147.u19	Yes. We may not have to vote on this procedure because it is only one amendment. If no one has an alternative draft procedure, we will proceed to the vote. I ask the rapporteur once again to state what we will be voting on. It's the amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-001-147.u20	We will vote on the amendment contained in the resolution of the Guarantee Committee on Public Report and Regional Development, which you received as press number 763/2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-29-ps2013-048-02-001-147.u21	Yes. I'll ask the Minister for an opinion. Please turn on the microphone. [[Agreed.]] Thank you. Committee opinion? [[Recommendant.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? It is vote number 39, registered 158, for 143, against 2, the proposal was accepted. And now we would proceed to the vote on the law as a whole. Isn't that right, rapporteur? [[Yes, it is.]] I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's proposal for a law on trust services for electronic transactions, according to House press 763, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies.' I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? It is vote number 40, registered 159, for 120, against 17, the proposal has been accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Let's continue with the point.
