ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u1	181. Government bill amending Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on assistance in material distress, as amended /house print 783/ - third reading Michaela Marksová and the rapporteur for the Social Policy Guarantee Committee, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, will take the position at the rapporteur's table. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 783/3, which has been delivered to you on 9 September of this year. The resolution of the guarantee committee was then delivered as House Press 783/4. I am now asking the appellant whether she is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. Madam Secretary, come and tell us something. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u2	Hello. Mr President, colleagues, I have quite detailed reasons for this law in my introductory words at second reading. Let me just remind you that this primarily responds to the problematic part of the provision that concerns the conditions for the approval of the municipality in the case of the assessment of the right to an additional pension for people living in the hostel. And they are also designed there, or there is a set of measures that respond to the problem of housing people in the residential hotels, or other, so-called. non-standard forms of housing, and the conditions for that person to be recognised as being worthy of the State's spending money on accommodation in those non-standard forms are further defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u3	Thank you, Minister. I'm opening up a debate that he first signed up for... Sorry, the rapporteur has signed up after Mr Vilímec. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u4	Thank you. I'd just say the guarantee committee was meeting on October 6th. In the debate, I would like to sign up and read the legislative technical regulation within the meaning of Section 95 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, This Regulation shall enter into force on the I, points 1 and 7 are deleted; the other points are marked. It is a legislative technical regulation proposed by the petitioner, the aim of which is to reconcile the House press with the Senate press 330, which only lacks the President's signature to end the legislative process. These prints contain duplicate editing of § 9 para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 5 of the Law on Material Needs. I therefore propose the removal of points 1 and 7 in the present draft law. The effectiveness of the Senate press 330 is proposed on the first day of the third calendar month following the date of publication in the Collection of Laws, the effectiveness of the House's press 783 is proposed on the first day of the second calendar month following the date of publication in the Collection of Laws, which would most likely result in a collision of both proposals at the envisaged length of the legislative process and the stage of discussion of both proposals. Furthermore, I would like to withdraw my amendment under No. 4854. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr Ladislav Vilímec is now duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador. After him with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I would still like to speak in support of my amendments, but in principle all those that are trying to prevent or at least make it difficult to do so. poverty business. Recently, the mayor of a small village in Horšovskotýnsko, Plzeň Region, handed me a petition demanding the solution of socially undesirable phenomena in its village associated with excessive concentration of people receiving housing supplements. It is hard for people in the community to explain why the state actually allows such cases and does not give municipalities any tools to face such situations. The compulsory approval of the municipality for the provision of a housing supplement is considered unconstitutional, although ultimately the Constitutional Court must decide on this, based on the legal analysis of the Ministry of the Interior. I note that some municipalities, e.g. from my region, the city of Janovice, which has had great problems with this, has already turned to court in this matter. Dear colleagues, to find solutions to such situations as I have described, the excessive concentration of undesirable phenomena, without cooperation with the municipalities - and I note, in their separate scope - simply cannot be done. It is important to be aware, in the account of the government proposal, that the municipality is not a municipal office and certainly not a social worker of a completely different municipal office. For the village, as we know, the mayor acts and decides either the mayor, the council, or the council. Unfortunately, this bill does not sufficiently reflect these fundamental matters of competence. Then we do not have to have a council or council at all, sufficient for no one to be elected, and therefore for the citizens unaccounted for by some authorities. Unfortunately, this trend is followed by many ideas of some ministries and, above all, ministerial officials. That's so-called the competent municipal authority, on request, as proposed in the Government's proposal, will submit to the Labour Office the information necessary to assess whether the applicant concerned is so-called linked to the municipality in which he has his actual residence, simply does not solve the problems. After all, this resulted from the appearance of a representative of the Union of Towns and Municipalities on the Committee on Social Policy. This is also the reason for the submission of some of my proposals, which, in my view, cannot in any way be called into question from a constitutional point of view. The municipality should have the right to communicate to the employment office sites in its territory where there is concentration of socially undesirable phenomena and, where appropriate, to recommend the maximum number of persons to whom a housing supplement should be provided in that locality. I quote, recommend, not veto. The authorities of aid in material distress must then deal with such an opinion of the municipality. I also see nothing unconstitutional about the fact that the employment office provides the municipality with information on the number of persons to whom the housing supplement is granted on its territory on the basis of the individual sites listed in the application. [[9.30 hours]] This is the content of the proposals that I have put forward and are given under the letters A1 and A3. I note that these proposals have been drawn up together with the Union of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic, and as I know the situation, it has relatively sufficient support in its legislative department. If we really want to fight effectively, and not only verbally, but effectively to combat the abuse of housing supplements, against the excessive concentration of people associated with this supplement in individual locations, I call on you to support these proposals. koneckonců all, so is Mrs Pastuchová's proposal. These proposals A1 and A5 are my proposals, with Mrs Pastuchová's proposals under the letter. B1 and B2 do not, in principle, overlap, merely complement. I would also like to justify my amendment under the heading. A4. He did not pass the guarantee committee by one vote, but rather because of the small participation of members the day before the regional elections, otherwise he even passed at the first meeting of the Committee on Social Policy at second reading, but did not pass the overall resolution. This is the legislative effectiveness of reducing the deductible threshold of justified housing costs for so-called substandard forms of housing. Those are the rents. The deductible costs are reduced by only 10% in the draft law. There were more options. Twenty percent, but in the end, the government submitted a ten-percent reduction. And, as the model examples show, the difference in the housing supplement in the case of for example a full family with two children for three to five years is approximately CZK 1, 265 to 1 894 according to the size category of municipalities. We know that the largest room for abuse of the housing supplement is in these residential hotels. The Government's proposal has leaned towards the option of a small reduction in the deductible threshold, as I said, and therefore it is quite sufficient, on the basis of my proposal, to prepare for this change for both the beneficiaries of the housing supplement and the landlords. The government proposal here assumes an exception in the general effectiveness of the law, i.e. the extension of this measure, respectively. the extension of the effectiveness of this measure, up to 12 months, which would have resulted in practical effects only in 2018. I really don't understand the reasons. Unless these are reasons that have nothing to do with the payment of the housing supplement, and I don't want to comment here. Dear colleagues, even in light of the real need to set up more effective tools against the abuse of the housing supplement, I would like to ask you for the support of these proposals I have put forward. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u7	I thank Mr Vilímc. First of all, a point of fact, I apologise, Mr Soukup. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, just a quick point. I don't quite understand why we have to make cosmetic modifications to the housing supplement. It is clear that the poverty business has set up a housing supplement - let us cancel it. I know we're in expectation of the Social Housing Act now. I firmly hope that the cancellation of the housing supplement and the payment of the basic amount of the state social housing contribution, which will be derived from the local usual rent, will fully resolve this matter. But the social housing law, it's like waiting for Godot. It's been talked about for a long time, and it's still not coming. I would rather hear the Minister when this law will be presented here to the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u9	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Stanjura. It is Mrs Chalánková, who has been duly applied for. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u10	Thank you for the floor. So here we see words and actions passing, and how often hypocritical we are here in the Chamber of Deputies. When we voted on one of the many instruments to combat trafficking in poverty, against the concentration of socially inadaptable to places where this is not appropriate at all, to one address, with the fact that those owners who do not carry out any social services, no social work, just actually using legally, that is to say, legally using the imperfections of our legal order, we agreed here and we said that we would give the cities and municipalities at least one tool to fight it. And they were all for it except one, I don't know who it was, I don't know, I wasn't looking for it, but all the Members of the Chamber of Deputies voted for it with the exception of one vote. And so we said, well done. The mayors called me and said, that's good, we know very well where the hostels are, where social work is done. These are the classic asylum houses, where organizations act as charity, the Salvation Army, and then local respected social organizations. We know who's who, and we have the tool. And what happened? Ministers for Social Democracy refused to respect and apply the law in practice. They made up the obsessive, internal and MPSV that the consent is actually just some advisory opinion, because civil servants know much better than those mayors and councillors and councillors, what it looks like in their community. And then many from the same side, or maybe even the same guys are really serious when there's a campaign: we have a problem, citizens, we see it, it's a big problem, we're going to solve it. In doing so, one of the instruments that municipalities and mayors could have received is being destroyed by this bill. If the law were applied, the mayor, whose petition was read by my fellow Member, Mr Vilímec, does not have the problem and does not have to deal with it and anyone who wants to do it would know that there is no chance that the first attempt would fail and the second would not be. Then one chairman of the coalition party, I don't want him to be PR, comes to the Ústí Region and says, "Well, that's terrible, how it looks in the socially excluded localities. Let's fight it. And how do we fight it? What was supposed to be true doesn't respect the state. And just to make sure that someone doesn't happen to notice or judge, or force the law from the state - I point out, from the state of law - we'd rather throw it out of the law altogether. And here we are: we have an amendment to the law on aid in material distress, and we are dealing with the problem. And we're making it worse. Isn't it? I'd like to hear from Madam Secretary what he has against it. Why is he taking the instrument from the municipalities? How is it going to get better if the instrument isn't there at all? Our club cannot support this law precisely because if we want to fight it with credibility, we cannot destroy the individual instruments that are supposed to help in this fight. And that's what you do. I was talking about ministers for social democracy, but this is a government bill, so I am looking at Members and Members and two other coalition parties. If you vote for it, the bill will pass, the next time I won't say that it was only ministers for the ČSSD who didn't respect and destroyed the instrument, and I will say absolutely rightly: everyone who voted for the bill doesn't really want to fight the hostels.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u11	Thank you. Another duly signed is Mrs Jitka Chalánková. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u12	Thank you for the floor. I'll follow up on my previous speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to point out that the Committee on Social Policy, as the Committee on Guarantee, has not adopted any resolution that would recommend approving this bill. On behalf of the TOP 09, I would like to say that, firstly, we will support Amendment 4829 by Mrs Pastuchová, who, after all, at least in some way regulates the obligations of administrative procedures, then there is also the question of permanent residence or the place where the applicant is actually staying and so on. It also addresses the question of the overcapacity of the incentive plan. Then I don't have to read it in detail. For TOP 09, I would like to say that this amendment does not solve anything and only complicates the situation. It brings about an increase, a senseless increase in bureaucratic procedures and an increase in administrative procedures. The so-called "lex Stanjura" we recommend to keep and not disturb. That is, it is the Paragraph 33 paragraph. 6. If the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs feels that this paragraph is constitutionally inconclusive, then let the Constitutional Court present it for assessment. The solution in the whole situation must be systemic, including focusing attention on housing contributions from welfare benefits. It is here to open up a debate about the law on municipalities and also the question of permanent residence. [[9.40 hours]] If we look at the implications of the budget, the chapter of the housing allowance is increasing. It is, on the one hand, an increase in the number of these persons who receive this housing allowance, especially from the category of single seniors, on the other hand, and it is also necessary to check more so-called lease agreements, especially fictitious lease agreements. After all, the housing supplement chapter declines somewhat from year to year. At the same time, along with my previous speakers, I would like to ask the Minister what stage the social housing law is now in, and whether there has already been an agreement on a joint procedure with the Ministry of Regional Development and also with the Union of Towns and Municipalities. For the TOP 09, I would like to say that we will support Mrs Pastuchová's amendment, Mr Vilímec, but we will oppose it as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u13	Thank you, Mrs Chalánková. Another duly registered member is Mr Miroslav Opálka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, members of the government, allow me to make a few comments, as it deserves a look at history. First of all, I would like to point out that this is a problem where social benefits are abused not by the needs, but by homeowners and apartments. I'll stress that. Secondly, the main problem that was set up like this arose during the wild privatization of the housing fund in individual cities and municipalities. The municipalities did not keep the necessary one third of the apartments that could serve the socially weaker. And I remember the meeting of the council of the statutory city of Opava, when I tried to influence not to privatize the building, which was built as barrier-free for the disabled, and it was privatized and the village does not treat it today. As for the housing supplement, it also had some substance in its origin, because many socially weak citizens, and I will turn it back to the statutory city of Ostrava, lived in the so-called former residential hotels of individual industrial enterprises, but it did not have a permanent residence there, so it was not entitled to the housing allowance. Therefore, a way was sought to help those, too, and was invented and approved by the housing supplement. Then Mr. Exministor Nečas, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, came up with the idea that, in fact, the surcharges and housing payments are paid to the people in need, but they do not always come to the owner of the apartment or the house, and they fall somewhere in the arcade. This is why the Chamber of Deputies approved, exceptionally, in this case, that this social contribution could be paid not to the needy, but directly to the owners. But we had no idea what would happen. From now on, there has been a huge boom in the trade in poverty, the purchase of hygienically completely inadequate buildings and the removal of often unadaptable citizens, but often those who had no choice, to different locations. And now we don't know much about it. And here I wouldn't blame the Department of Labour and Social Affairs at all, because they were somehow counting on the initiative. I think that Mr Stanjura's proposal was correct, and that is why we voted in favour of it, and that is why we do not agree to abolish it. We tried to set an example for Karviné at the Ministry. There are certainly more examples, but in Karviné we have the deputy mayor who is in charge of this, and he has already described a few papers and sent it to the media as well as to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, when he showed that this means allows the community to communicate and influence this group of citizens. They made it clear that these people would at least partially pay their debts on a payment schedule. And, hey, it's working. Of course, they took out those who had little children, knocked out seniors, didn't deal with the situation before Christmas. It's just that the system started gradually. Like every system, it certainly has a flaw, but it was one of the ways in which the community enters into influencing the behavior of its citizens. And we want to take it away from them. I understand that the Ministry of the Interior went ahead and there was a concern about the transition period before we hit the new system, that suddenly a large group of people would find themselves on the street from day to day. So we should have discussed more about the transitional period and about protecting this situation so that it would be treated socially sensitively. But the abolition of this possibility to the community seems wrong to us. Therefore, I note that the KSČM parliamentary club does not want to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u15	Thank you, honourable Member. With a point of fact, President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u16	Under the Rules of Procedure, I would like to respond to my previous speaker's speech. And that's exactly it. That's the confidence in self-government that the councillors and the deputies, the deputy in charge, know the situation in their city, can distinguish, can wait and want to see good will. And if anyone proves good will, the government is reaching out to him. But who doesn't do good will, doesn't cooperate, laughs at others, there's no way the government's gonna help him. And that's right. The law that applies today is not that the municipality must not give consent. So either we trust the deputies that they know better than the state deputies, and I believe that because they're in the field, they're working with these people. Those people, when they have a problem, they go to City Hall. They rarely go to a branch... They will not come to Prague to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to see the Minister or her team. Logically, they go to their mayor at City Hall and they want to solve a problem. So if we cancel, we're essentially saying that we don't trust representatives, councillors, mayors, mayors who are in charge of it, that they understand it and that they can do it. And we have the exact opposite opinion. They understand, they can do it. And nothing happens if it stays. Nothing's gonna happen!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u17	Thank you to President Stanjur. With another factual remark by Mrs Jana Hnyková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to underline all the words of my colleague Opálka and his summary. We also supported Mr Stanjura's amendment, and we want to say that the Úsvit - National Coalition will support the amendment by both Mrs Pastuchová and Mr Vilímec of the Committee on Social Policy. We think that the amendment that Mr Stanjura evaluated here before me was correct because it was an instrument for municipalities and cities to work with this group of people. I think that we should bring social work closer to more municipalities and cities, that we lack a law on social housing. The fact that we don't have it here after three years is a big mistake, because there are a lot of things that could be solved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u19	Thank you, ma'am. Now, to the general debate, duly signed up by Mrs Radka Maxová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll only react briefly. Yes, I agree with Mr Opálka, I agree with Mr Stanjura. The right of municipalities to decide which people should be in their territory should be clearly maintained. Since the upcoming law on social housing, which ended this week's external commentary procedure, gives municipalities only obligations. This right to decide whether or not I will support this citizen in my community must be maintained clearly by the municipalities. Because if you've studied the upcoming law on social housing, we really only give municipalities responsibilities. The employment office will decide again: you have the right to an emergency, go to that mayor over there, he has to take care of you. But the community has no right to say: we don't cooperate with us, we don't want him here. So, clearly, unless Mrs Pastuchová's amendment passes, I will vote against this law. That's one reason. Second reason. This amendment to the law has only cosmetic modifications. It doesn't solve the hostel system. The fact that we're going to cut by 10 percent is not solving the problem. On the contrary, we're gonna ask where these people are gonna take the rest that we're gonna take from them now. And I don't care about the bad guys who do business with it. But how do those who are in need, and do we know that there is a certain number of people who really are in need, stand up to that? How will the community stand up to this? And one last thing. I fundamentally disagree with the new motivational programme for people to whom this should apply. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has not fully explained the financial impact on how many employees will be needed and how these people will work, how much it will cost us, etc. We're talking imaginary about 200 people, or maybe 350. Others will come up with a new law on social housing. Indeed, this amendment is completely unnecessary and unless Mrs Pastuchová's amendment passes, i.e. I don't think the House should vote for him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u21	Thank you, ma'am. So far, Mr Karel Fiedler is the last duly signed up for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am, as I always do, listening to the contributions of the previous speakers. And it sounds here from what colleagues and colleagues Radka Maxová, colleague Mirek Opálka, all express their unconvincedness that this law is well prepared and that it will solve problems that would solve me. I began to address this issue as Vice-President of the Petition Committee, where at this moment three petitions from citizens who are members of the owners' community came across huge problems with the abuse of flats that are further rented out. At this point, the problem is that the so-called hostel, where benefits were abused earlier, moves not to hostels, but directly to housing houses, where there is essentially the same or very similar mechanism of dealing with these apartments and the unauthorized drawing of social benefits. There are probably double contracts being reported there. The contributions paid by the labour authorities - let's see what function the labour authorities are doing today: they pay housing contributions - although they are paid to the tenants, they do not get into the accounts or the account where they have, the home fund managers or the owners' community. They get into a very critical situation where they do not have to pay rents, water is disconnected from individual apartments or individual houses and decent owners get into huge problems. Petitions are already three, and basically point to the same problem. It has been said several times that this amendment is not so consistent about what it should be dealing with. There are doubts as to whether it will solve what it will accomplish. And that the social housing law is still going to be, and we know who knows when. For this reason, I am giving club presidents and individual clubs, so that we can think about it, a proposal to repeat the second reading so that we can still work on this law. To improve it so that it really makes sense. I think my colleague Maxová said that if some amendments fail, it is useless and does not solve anything. And those are exactly the reasons that lead me to make a motion to repeat the second reading. Not to approve the law to fall, but to keep it alive, we could work on it, and on the basis of that information - I am really starting to deal with this issue intensively and I am in contact with those people, with the presidents of the owners' community, what is the problem there - so that we can try to implement as much of the incentives as possible in this law to make the law more meaningful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u23	I thank Mr Fiedler. Madam Secretary with priority rights. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u24	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to comment on some things here. As far as municipalities are concerned today, they do not decide what the labour authorities are doing. So the system was transferred to the office of labor for the office of former Minister Drábek. When we joined the government, one of the first things that I did was that we had a meeting with the Union of Cities and Villages and we asked, "Does he want it back? And most mayors said no. That he wants to keep it the way it is. So here we really need to get this straight. Most of the people in the Union of Towns and Villages told us they wanted to leave it like this. That means they didn't want to deal with the material need so much. And that really needs to be made very clear here. Social housing. The system doesn't turn so much about what it has and doesn't have a community to do and what the authorities will do. But the big change is that most of the housing fund that the state money goes into is supposed to be managed by municipalities, if I say so. It will not be all apartments only owned by them, because unfortunately it has been heavily privatized here, but it is supposed to be that if the municipality does not have its housing fund, it will simply appoint partners, choose private individuals, choose nonprofits, church and social housing will be run in these apartments. But it will be under the supervision of the community. And until this is done, the abuse that is, virtually. problems that occur especially in northern Bohemia in apartment buildings, so it just doesn't go away! At this point, we don't have a tool to say that we won't pay the benefits at all to those kinds of apartments! And we have submitted material to the government, which is also tasked with other departments, because there are situations that are beyond the competence of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. We need the cooperation of the others here. And we really can't say that we won't pay the housing allowance to the apartments under certain conditions. But when it's in the hands of the community and we don't feed the private owners, the poor businessmen, that's the only solution I think. [[The minister speaks loudly, the Members speak loudly in the benches and in the crowds.]] Yes, the law is now finishing external commentary proceedings, but one round has already been made with the Ministry of Finance, with the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of the Interior. So this is round two. And I think that this should go to the Chamber of Deputies in January next year. And as for the fact that it has been said several times here that we are taking the approval of the community out of it again. Well, I don't know, we're kind of reading wrong, or we're reading different things. I'd like you to listen to me a little bit, because here...!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u25	I am very sorry, I ask the House for peace! Mr. Schwarz, please go to the lobby to discuss. Thank you. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u26	Because this has been said repeatedly here, and it's quite a crucial thing, because many of you are mayors or mayors and so on. I was able to match it so it wouldn't go away, which is why the amendment delayed for a few months, because we modified it to stay there and it was modified in a kind of conformal manner with the opinion of the Ministry of the Interior, so that it had clear rules to say how the municipality gave an opinion. Yes, it is a recommendation, but it just stayed there and there are clear rules to prevent, first of all, some businessman from taking a bunch of poor people from somewhere, moving them to some baribizna in a village, the community has nothing to say about it, and we pay benefits there. That's what the novel thinks. Don't be mad at me. I guess we all really read some other stuff. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u27	Thank you, Madam Secretary. With a factual remark, Mr Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u28	Thank you for the floor. I noticed when the Minister said how the Union of Cities and Communities had a certain opinion, how several heads simultaneously wiggled, that this was information that was different. I have another one, too. To pay contributions to those who abuse it. At the seminar, which I held here in the Chamber of Deputies on 4 October, there was such a proposal, I admit it was my fault that we did not also address someone from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, so that the person asking for contributions would not only present documents from the owner of the apartments, but also from the community of owners. Because very often, Madam Secretary, money happens to be paid, it ends up in the pocket of speculators, and it doesn't get to where it was supposed to go. Unlike you, I think that the biggest decision-making influence in order to solve this problem should be the housing self-government, the community of owners, and not the municipalities, because especially the bosses of the owners' community already know the notorious names of some speculators who own hundreds of flats to abuse their benefits and make huge money on it. Here I see the main source of problems and I am just confirmed in this and I call on my colleagues to support my proposal to return to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u29	I thank Mr Fiedler. With a point of fact, Madam Secretary. Please, Madam Secretary, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u30	Just a short reaction. We already know about this, and it's one of the things that's on the list of measures that needs to be done by another resort. It's not in our jurisdiction. It's in the government's resolution. When I said it once, it appeared in the paper, there was an incredible criticism of a part of the homeowners that I dare pronounce. Just so you know, it's written in the list of precautions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u31	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr Vilímec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u32	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to address the Minister. I would quite like her to listen to me and invite her to read at least one passage from the amendment, a government bill amendment that gives municipalities, as such, an instrument at all. I don't think we'll find any such passage there. I also tried to appeal in my performance not to identify the municipality with the municipal authority. I am the elderly mayor of the village, which has a municipal authority. The mechanism is set in such a way that, if it were approved, in some cases, a social worker appointed by the municipal authority would give some kind of recommendation in the case of a municipality which is not at all identical to the municipal authority. This means that I would really like to call on her to say that she fought for the municipalities to read one passage from a government bill that gives municipalities the authority to enter into this matter at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u33	I thank Mr Vilímc. With a point of fact, Mr Opálka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. So I will ask the Minister directly if she was talking about Section 33, which is there in several paragraphs where the compromise in the government seems to have occurred, to use the information, whether it is what the municipality actually has, because the Office can and may not use the information. That's why there's a debate, there's no malice towards the government. In a way, it would be good if the Minister of the Interior expressed himself, because he initiated the situation that is now here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u35	I thank Mr Opálek. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u36	I wouldn't be able to make it in two minutes. But it's nice that the Home Secretary is here because he didn't hear my first statement when I said that he and his colleague Marksová were involved in circumventing the law of the authentic text by inventing a methodology that suddenly the position was non-binding. Perhaps if it were in the building process, this innovator procedure, we would already have built the motorways, that we would say that negative opinions are informatively noncommittal and the building office decides regardless of the opinions. I'm sure that would be more useful than a noncommittal position here. Madam Secretary told us how she fought to keep the information available. But with whom, Madam Secretary? This is where I listen to my colleagues from all the clubs, so your colleagues are silent, I understand that, and they say they want it there, you probably didn't fight them. Unless you fought to soften it. But you have portrayed yourself here as a warrior for the tools of the community. I don't know who the bad guy was, maybe Jiří Dienstbier, I don't know, that's all I could think of right now that you were fighting him, but given the weight of his opinions in the Chamber of Deputies, you could have fought fast. [[Glee in the hall.]] I really think so. [[Glee in the hall.]] But let's get back to the real thing. You said that you met after you became a minister, with representatives of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, and that they didn't want to change anything in principle. I don't know if we have an understanding, because I've been debating this with my colleagues since 2010. And there are two different things in this area. One thing - a social inquiry and a decision on whether a person is entitled to a benefit. When you ask the mayors, the deputies, that's what they want to do, because they do it first. They do social investigations, they investigate and they have to deal with the situation when there is a hostel, for example, so everyone else in the street, in the neighborhood complain, and they don't seem to complain about the employment office or the MPSV, but they go to town hall logically, they know exactly where to complain when something is going on in the city that they don't like. That's a match. I'd like to see most of the mayors reject this. Then there's the second thing, and that's paying the benefits. And it's official business, it can be done by the state, and I think maybe the mayors don't mind when they decide that you get this dose, so it's in one place, so it's the office of work, it's the administration and it pays off. If we mix these two areas in the debate, we won't understand each other. We, who are fighting for the municipalities to get at least some tool, want to say that it is the first, and we are not at all opposed to the administration, registration, after all, it is the state money to pay off the state institutions, in this case the employment office. And I think they talk about it, even though I wasn't at the meeting, my colleagues from the Union of Cities and Cities, because it's important. If we want to be specific, I would be quite interested, and I think even the voters who refuse to address who will receive problematic housing payments. I'd really like to know because I don't know such mayors. I'm not saying they don't exist, but I don't know them. On the contrary, and I'm not the only one, co-workers and colleagues get it, they have their own representatives, they have their own citizens, they write to them, often communities desperately buy unnecessary objects that they don't need to do anything just to prevent the hostel from being built there. We know that. [[10.10 hours]] If the argument for the softening - because what the government has proposed is nothing, nothing at all, there is no tool for the municipalities, nothing at all - if the announced procedure of some municipalities after the last amendment, which was first announced, had to be tried, and one of the arguments that I found in the public debate that it was terrible, for example, the town of Bohumín said it would not give to anyone, so it is a matter of the municipality of Bohumín. I fully respect that, I just want to say that they have a long and successful mayor there, who happens to be chairman of the Senate club of the Czech Social Democratic Party. And that's supposed to be the argument of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, one of the arguments, from the same side about what's threatening. I think that Bohumín would have made the reality more varied and that it wouldn't have been a hundred-zero. I'm absolutely sure of it, because it's in my region, and I know how this town works. I do not know it as much as a citizen of Bohumín, but, among other things, that in a rather forceful procedure with inadaptable and forceful fights with hostels, the mayor collects deserved success in municipal elections. And I say well deserved success. So at this point, it seems most rational to me to disagree with the law, as I suggested, to vote against, to return to second reading, to focus in particular on that section 33, to try to find a political consensus, or at least a majority, if there is no political consensus that will preserve the instrument in full for the municipalities. No one can say they're surprised, they've been debating this for a year and a half, it's not news. If we still last a month, that is. that we would repeat the second reading at the next meeting, nothing will happen because this bill will make the current situation worse. I just hope the magicians at the Home Office don't come up with the fact that duty doesn't actually mean nothing. And if so, I really recommend focusing on the area of construction law. That would be very helpful to the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u37	Thank you. With a point of fact, first Mrs Radka Maxová, after her Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u38	Thank you. I'll only react briefly. Many have already been said. It is true that, of course, I, too, have been in close contact with the mayor after a major debate on the powers of the municipalities to make recommendations or agree to provide a housing supplement. And even I didn't run into one mayor who would say to me, cancel it, it doesn't work for us, it's giving us trouble. Every government I've talked to on this subject has found a way to deal with it. On the contrary, I am very sorry that when something complicates problems, namely this thing, it is the easiest thing to cancel. Not find a way to make it work. I think that rather than making such cosmetic modifications, we should focus more on the overall revision of the payment of social benefits, insurance, non-insurance, in the Czech Republic. And we might wonder what this revision would bring us. I think that many mayors can handle this issue alone, without any legal standard, and I know that there has been quite a big debate on the Committee on Social Policy on this subject as well. It can be said that the opinion really prevailed to encourage self-government in order to regulate citizens' residence in their territory in some way, so that it does not cause them any trouble and that municipalities too can help people who want to get out of their emergency. So I really think the authority of these municipalities should stay there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u39	Thank you. Mr Karel Fiedler's final point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u40	Thank you for the floor. That's a problem we know about. I had a bit of a debate with the Minister after that, and I'm glad we have more or less a similar view or a similar view. I've been on the phone a lot lately. It's basically, as I found out, the form stuff. The form that the applicant for the allowance... there's the box "confirmation of the owner of the apartment." So let's change the form, that would be very simple, let's put the second column "confirmation of the housing fund manager or the payer of the energy supplier, water." That's the problem, we figured, the money pays off, and then they don't get to where they're supposed to go, that somebody's gonna keep it in their pocket. Part of the problem, I stress part, I'm not saying it's a panacea, it could be solved very simply by the fact that the aid applicant will submit a confirmation of the double, the owner of the apartment and the owner of the property that he used the money for what he was paid for. And so it would be very limited to this problem. I'm not saying he did. It happens, and it is precisely the problem of Usteck, those apartments in northern Bohemia, that there is suddenly a great migration and that there are those inadaptable people who simply live anywhere, however, from other areas. They don't know them. And even the ethnics themselves say they don't want them here, because the houses lead to devastation, they bring them to decay. And it's starting to migrate. And those who have experience of this warn against (?) to move forward with this problem. Because what happened? The problem of the dormitory business has been transferred to the apartments. And I'm glad the Minister of Finance is here, Babiš, because as the cashier, he should be interested in not wasting money and social benefits. [[The President draws attention to the time]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-21-ps2013-050-04-002-181.u41	I thank Mr Fiedler. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. If there is no such person, I am done with the debate. I am asking the appellant's final words, or the rapporteur's. Not interested. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby and we'll vote. Before we vote on the amendments, there is a proposal by Mr Fiedler to repeat the second reading of this bill. I'm signing you all off, please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the repetition of the second reading of the draft law pursuant to § 95 para. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of repeating the second reading, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 119 vote. 155 Members and Members are registered, for 89, against 58. The motion to repeat the second reading was accepted. That concludes the discussion of this point. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is:
