ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u1	231. Oral inhalation Today, with the participation of the verifiers, we have drawn a ranking of Members, in which they will speak and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka or the Government of the Czech Republic, from 14:30 to 16:00, to other members of the government from 16:00 to 18:00. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. Before I give the word to the first intruder, I'll read the apologies that came to me. From 15 to 16 today, Mr Karel Rais apologizes because of the negotiations, from 14.30 to 18 he apologizes for working reasons Mrs Radka Maxová, from 14.30 to 19 for working reasons Mr Martin Sedlář, and today until the end of the negotiations he apologizes for personal reasons Mrs Bohdalová. And now I give the floor to Mr Igor Jakubčík, who was drawn in the first place to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Bohuslav Sobotka. Member Václav Horáček will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, the European Commission has again tabled a proposal to introduce a permanent mechanism for the redistribution of refugees coming to the European Union. It is clear that redistribution does not help to address the migration crisis in any way. The current common asylum system is dysfunctional and long-term unsustainable, which was also admitted by European Commission Vice-President Frans Timmermans. That is why the European Commission has submitted an offer for its reform. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to ask you about the position of the Czech Republic on the issue of compulsory redistribution of migratory burdens across the Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka will have the floor. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u4	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. Let me therefore comment on Mr Jakubčík's question, which concerns a matter which is, of course, very topical in Europe today. It is one of the initiatives that the European Commission is responding to the experience of the migration crisis so far. Last week, the European Commission presented a proposal for a reform of the common European asylum system. I must say that this proposal, of course, contains a number of things that the Czech Republic can support, for example as regards the prevention of secondary movements in the context of migration in the European Union. However, what bothers us is two essential elements. The first is the effort to transfer competences relating to asylum policy to the level of the European Commission, which means an effort to federalise asylum policy within the European Union. The position of the Czech Government is that we believe that the final decision concerning asylum policy should remain at national level. We believe that it should be national governments that have a final say in terms of immigration policy, so that they can flexibly reflect all aspects of the economic situation, social situation, security situation, and also respond to it in the area of immigration and asylum policy. Of course, in respect of international conventions that define the issue of the right to asylum. This is, say, the first thing that bothers us, and the Czech Republic will demand that asylum competences are not transferred to European level. The second issue concerns the introduction of a mechanism to redistribute refugees coming into the European Union. We have long expressed our disagreement with the proposals for creating any permanent quotas or permanent quota redistribution systems for refugees. We think that this should indeed be left to the voluntary decisions of the individual Member States of the European Union and to help those countries situated at the external Schengen border should be a matter of agreement and coordination within the European Union, voluntary offers from each Member State. However, we do not agree with this, and we will not support proposals that would lead to a permanent quota redistribution mechanism within the European Union. That's something that's the other point that bothers us. Certainly what we support is better coordination with regard to the protection of the European Union's external borders, but also better coordination with regard to the implementation of the return policy. And here, of course, we welcome the fact that the obligations for the first entry Member States should be maintained. This means that the Member States of the first entry should continue to ensure full registration, identification of all incoming and first entry Member States should also ensure the return of all those who do not need international protection. This is the rule that contains the European Commission proposal and which we support because we believe that the Member States are responsible for protecting their external borders and for registering incoming migrants in their territory. However, we are skeptical that these obligations could be linked to the federalisation of asylum procedures and to a system of permanent quotas for the redistribution of refugees. We believe that the European Union should focus in particular on establishing agreements with countries that are in the immediate vicinity of the European Union. I think that a certain example can be the mechanism that is currently being implemented at the border between Turkey and Greece, which has shown in recent days that it can have positive results in terms of reducing migration pressure. At the same time, we should concentrate on helping countries at the external Schengen border to the greatest extent when it comes to protecting the external border.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u5	Thank you. I ask if you will ask the President an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u6	Thank you, Prime Minister. And I have one additional question. Until now, the Visegrad Four states have always been more or less united. You've been such, say, an informal spokesperson lately. Do you think the Visegrad Four will maintain this trend even in the case of the current new proposal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u7	Thank you. I'll ask the Prime Minister for a refill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u8	Thank you. I think there's a great chance that we can proceed together within the V4. We're coordinating that position right now. I would very much like to prepare a common position for the V4 countries on the European Commission's proposal to reform asylum policy. So at this point, we are contacting individual V4 countries and we are trying to adopt this position, just as I would very much like the V4 to support together the efforts of Macedonia and other Western Balkan countries to regulate the migration pressure that is now heading for Europe. I consider it extremely important that two mechanisms work alongside each other in the coming weeks and months. The mechanism for returning refugees from Greece to Turkey and, moreover, very strict border surveillance in the Western Balkans, so as to make it clear that this route is definitively closed for illegal migration, and so that we can concentrate on identifying other potential risks related to the potential migratory currents that are heading for the European Union. Yes, I think we can proceed together, but it would be little if it were only V4 countries, so we will try to deal with other states as well. We will look for allies within the framework of the debate with other countries of the European Union so that we can change the European Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u9	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Václav Horáček will now speak with his intervention and prepare Mrs Miroslava Němcová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, in the interests of Czech Post workers, but also visitors to post offices who are effectively at risk today as a result of controversial decisions regarding the security of postal branches and who are addressing me with their concerns, I ask you: Is it true that Czech Post workers and visitors are exposed to security risks as a result of controversial disconnecting hundreds of postal branches from certified dispatches that are not guarded to this day, and how many branches are they? And do you know the real reason why postal workers and the entire public in the Czech Republic are exposed to increased risks? I know it's not exactly your resort, and I understand that you don't need to know the detailed answers, but that's why I appeal to you to deal with this extremely serious situation immediately. It is not only a problem of the process of disconnecting the existing provider and of very controversial selection of new, but above all about the safety of postal workers and also their visitors. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u11	I thank you and ask the Prime Minister to answer your question. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u12	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I completely agree that the security of the Czech Post, the Czech Post offices and visitors to the Czech Post is an important priority. I, on the basis of the interpellation of Mr Horáček, requested documents from the Ministry of the Interior. Let me introduce you to some of the information I have received in this context. So first of all, the situation we're in. Czech Post has decided to move towards a change in the area of securing one of the safety segments, namely the part that concerns remote security monitoring of branches, vehicle monitoring and also the monitoring of delivery companies. These activities were provided by ALKOM Security for the Czech Post for more than 15 years, both directly and through the Czech Post Security by 2013. Czech Post has decided to change the way to ensure security. Therefore, last year she announced an open tender to ensure these activities. In the course of the public contract, the Czech Post subsequently decided to cancel the tender procedure in accordance with the Public Procurement Act and to ensure the provision of these services exclusively through its own subsidiary, i.e. Česká pošta Security, s.r.o., which is owned by the Czech Post. So the point is that, in fact, outsourcing, which lasted 15 years, will be replaced by mail providing security with its own resources. Each of these steps I have described has triggered a number of public responses from ALKOM. This is a matter which, of course, takes place in the media. However, it must be assumed that ALKOM has been a provider of these services for 15 years, which means that it has its own commercial interest, which is likely to consist in seeking to continue to provide these services. The area of security is a very sensitive business such as the Czech Post. Czech Post is a partner of the state in a number of services, is a critical infrastructure entity of the state under the crisis law regime, fulfills a number of obligations which by their very nature protect not only its entire operation, but in particular the interest of the state, which expresses through the law, which aims to protect important elements of its activities. For these reasons, ensuring the security of the Czech Post, employees, clients, property, the primary task of the management of the Czech Post and at this time the management of the Czech Post adapts this strategy to current trends in the geopolitical situation as well as to the important tasks of this state enterprise. It can therefore be noted that all Czech Post objects are currently fully monitored according to the information I received from the Ministry of the Interior. Part of the objects is monitored through the surveillance centre of the Czech Post, the remaining ones are monitored by ALKOM Security and will be connected to the surveillance centre of the Czech Post in the following months. The monitoring of the objects did not end. Monitoring through the supervision center of Česká pošta Security was started continuously, respectively. immediately followed up on the end of the monitoring by ALKOM Security. Thus, there was no threat to the objects or persons or property that are in them. The supervision centre of Česká pošta Security is set up and set to meet all standards that apply to this type of workplace. The supervision takes place through qualified persons and according to the information I received, the Czech Post is prepared to continue in the set way of ensuring security in this area. So much for the question you asked.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u13	Thank you, Prime Minister. I ask Mr Horáček if he has an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u14	Thank you, Prime Minister, for an answer that clearly states that all the mail is secure, so we'll see. However, in order to understand each other, I don't give a damn who's gonna make sure whether it's a private company or a subsidiary of the Czech Post. My point is to ensure that this is properly secured, and according to my information also the central counter, which is owned by Česká pošta Security, s.r.o., does not comply with the Czech state standard and in addition the contracts have not been terminated, and therefore the court in Prague 1 has already issued the first order of payment, which is the payment of the first penalty of 5 million. Kč. So I ask where the Czech Post's management is, as the contract continues and therefore the contractual fines will probably continue to be paid and paid. All I'm pointing out is that it's a non-standard environment. Of course, my main concern is the employees and visitors of the post office.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u15	Thank you. The Prime Minister will respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u16	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is, of course, in the full professional responsibility of the management of the Czech Post to ensure a correct and qualified transition from the services of one supplier to the services of another. I think it is undoubtedly healthy for the public sector if from time to time there is the possibility of outsourcing to compete, that is to update the possibilities in terms of quality and price of services that are supplied to the State or to a state enterprise. There are, of course, a number of anomalies that sometimes are significantly influenced technologically, but then they are some anomalies that were affected by the lack of will to outsourcings from time to time competed. And I think that this case of security of the Czech Post is one of them. If we have one company here that has been providing this delivery for the Czech Post for 15 years, I think it is appropriate that this matter be re-competitive. [[14.50 hours]] Czech Post has attempted to re-compete this matter. Unfortunately, the tender had to be cancelled and subsequently the management of the Czech Post decided to provide this service by its own forces through its own subsidiary company, which Česká pošta purchased in previous years. This was not the decision of this government that the Czech Post acquired this subsidiary, but it was a decision made in previous years, and in my view it may be a reasonable way to ensure security, a high standard of security at the branches of the Czech Post, their employees and clients, while ensuring that the Czech Post will not be dependent on just one security service supplier, as it was in the past and as the whole history I tried to bring closer to shows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u17	Thank you, too, Prime Minister. I'll read the apology that came to me. From 14.30 to the end of the day, Mr Miloš Babiš apologizes. And now Mrs Miroslava Němcová will speak to the Prime Minister with her intervention and Mr Stanislav Grospič will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u18	Thank you for the floor. Mr President of the Government, I am addressing you with an interview concerning the President's statements in two areas. The first one concerns rather foreign policy, the second one turns inwards, to the Czech public. My first question is - and I would like to know your views on President Miloš Zeman's comments during a Chinese visit to our country, when he said - quote: "There were very bad relations between the former government of the Czech Republic. I stress the former government because this government was very submissive under pressure from the United States and the European Union. Now we are an independent country and the creation of our policy is based on our own interests." I know you meet regularly, perhaps there was a meeting today on foreign policy, which is why I ask you, Prime Minister, whether you and the President of the Republic have discussed this position with him, whether the Minister of Foreign Affairs has dealt with him. If you agree to this position, I would ask for an explanation of how the previous government was under pressure from the United States and the European Union, because I remember well that you personally blamed the former government for excluding us from the mainstream of Europe. And then I would like to know your opinion - I only recall in this context the previous visit of the President of our Republic to China, when he said he was going there to learn - I quote exactly: 'how to increase economic growth and stabilise the social order'. So I'm wondering how you match foreign policy with President Zeman. And what is turned inside the Czech society, I would like to zoom in on the words he said about a month ago. On March 11, on a visit to the House, the president said: "I absolutely hate the expression of ordinary citizens or ordinary people, because anyone who says that demonstrates the papalasian respect for his listeners. " When he valued police officers two days ago for intervening against Czech citizens and against those who posted Tibetan flags, the Czech public divides it in the way they speak of it in this way - he says to the police: "Your ungrateful task is to defend the speech of mentally abnormal people, and in that you are a bit like psychiatrists. " I would therefore like to know how much you match foreign policy and agree with what President Zeman says on a visit to China or during a Chinese visit to our country. And secondly, what do you think about statements that remove part of the Czech public from public discourse, with the fact that this part is referred to as abnormal, which belongs to the care of psychiatrists. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u19	Thank you. I'll ask the Prime Minister to answer your question. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u20	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there are a few things here. First, of course, it is a question of evaluating the President's statements, which is essentially political in nature, and we can have different views on the President's statements. However, the president represents the Czech Republic on the outside. This means that each of his statements has a relatively broad international impact from this point of view. However, I would first like to comment on the matter concerning security measures during the visit of the Chinese President here in the Czech Republic. I am convinced that the main task of the Police of the Czech Republic is to prevent any threat to the health, life of citizens, the property of citizens as a result of the fact that there were actually supporters of various opinions in the streets, that there were people who wanted to protest against the visit of the Chinese President in the Czech Republic, so there were people who welcomed him, here I think the police did a great deal of work simply because they managed to maintain public order even in such a difficult situation. The second thing is to what extent the police are supposed to intervene against someone who puts up the Tibetan flag. I do not think that this is really the task of the Police of the Czech Republic, and I do not think that hanging the Tibetan flag out of the window threatens anyone's safety so that the police have to intervene on this matter and so that the police have to deal with it at all. As I have been informed by the Minister of the Interior, an investigation is under way on this matter and I assume that in the afternoon the Police President should inform the public at a press conference about the outcome of this investigation and inform the police's decision to ensure the safety of this foreign visit and how citizens' complaints about the police procedure on individual matters have been dealt with. The second thing that, in my view, should be examined separately is the question of the public sector for the purposes of these security actions. This is actually where the magistrate performed the measures at the request of the Police of the Czech Republic. However, I think it would probably be worth a wider discussion in the future, to what extent it was really necessary for such measures to include such a large part of the Prague Castle's surroundings, and whether this was really necessary. So I would argue for a more detailed analysis in these matters in the future, as other significant state visits will eventually arrive. I just want to remind you, and there was a public debate about it, that, of course, there have been trades in the past, for example, when President Obama of the United States, who gave his speech on Hradčany Square. Even then, there were some public areas and I think it is important for the future that these things be explained and justified enough why the streets or why the squares are closed and therefore prevent, for example, the exercise of the right of assembly. With regard to the statements made by the President of the Republic, there were many statements. However, I believe that the relationship between China and the Czech Republic has been largely frozen in recent years. The Czech Republic was a certain exception within Europe because many countries tried to intensify relations, whether political or economic, with China, both in the Central European region, such as Poland and Hungary, as well as between those states such as Great Britain, France or Germany. So the Czech Republic has been among the smaller parts of the European Union countries in recent years, which have not actively developed relations with China, and those relations have been frozen in principle. Starting with the rise of Rusnokův's government - and our government has followed up on its activities - we are trying to intensify dialogue with China and, in principle, to catch up on the delay that the Czech Republic had in this respect. I think it is important to perceive that China is the second largest economy in the world. Our country is traditionally export oriented and I think it is important that we try to take advantage of the opportunities given by the Chinese market to support the Czech economy. Regarding the question of how much our relations with China were a matter of our own decision, or whether it was a question of international pressure, I think that the Czech Republic can be difficult to justify any pressure on the part of the European Union when we are members of the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u21	I'm sorry, Prime Minister, but your time is up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u22	Maybe I'll have a chance to add some more in the supplement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u23	Thank you. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u24	So it turns out that there was a need for a debate on security measures, as we suggested as a new point in this meeting, and unfortunately, the coalition blocked it, because even your extensive response, from which you escaped a little bit from the essential, i.e. to what extent you are aligning foreign policy with the President of the Republic, shows this answer of yours that we needed the debate. Our limited time will not serve us today. So if you're talking about it's beneficial that we're connecting with China in some other way, so basically you agree, I'm asking again, with a statement that we're supposed to learn how to stabilize the social order in China? I mean, Miloš Zeman's statement. And then, given foreign policy, I wonder how you look at the functioning of the presidential office, where almost nobody has security clearance anymore. It's the last time General Pilc lost it. Mr. mynář never got it. Mr. Nejedlý, who represents Lukoil, works there. There's a Chinese counselor who's attached to Mr. Tvrdík, who's your advisor. So these are very serious questions that we need to know the answer to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u25	Thank you, Mrs Němcová. The Prime Minister has an additional answer. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u26	Thank you. That's too many new questions for the short time available. However, I would like to finish the idea of where I was interrupted. We are simply part of the European Union, so we influence its policy. It's not us and them. We are also the EU as the Czech Republic, and if we had any relations with China in the past, it was primarily based on our government's decision. Likewise, if we have now decided to get relations with China, say, to some average solid European level, it is our government's decision again, and I do not think that we are subject to any dictation from one side or the other. However, it is logical that the Czech Republic coordinates its foreign policy on key aspects, that we coordinate our security policy on key aspects, either with other EU members or with other members of the North Atlantic Alliance. With regard to the question of aligning foreign policy with the President of the Republic, we have introduced a format where the highest constitutional officials of the Czech Republic meet regularly, a new platform that has not been here in the past, as it happens to be another meeting of ours tonight, and we are trying to coordinate the position of the Czech Republic on key foreign policy issues. The government is trying to coordinate, but the government cannot correct the autonomous expression and expression of the views of the President of the Republic whose mandate is not derived from the government, but whose mandate is derived from citizens because the President of the Republic has been elected in direct elections. China has its own political economic system that depends on its history. The system is, of course, different from how we set the rules in Europe. In the Czech Republic we have a democratic rule of law, we have free competition from political parties, we have a political democracy here. [[Attention on time.]] Of course, the Chinese regime is different from ours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u27	Thank you. We will continue to interpel according to the winning order, the interviewing Member to the Prime Minister is Mr Stanislav Grospič. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Prime Minister, I would perhaps like to add a few sub-questions to one interpelation and one question to you concerning the association agreement. It has not been that long, several days, when a referendum was held in one of the Member States of the European Union, where it was expressed, it was in the Netherlands, opposition to the association agreement, and according to the survey, 60.1 percent of the voters have spoken. For them, 38.1 percent and attendance was 32.2 percent of the voters. This means that this result is still formally, albeit unofficial, so it is binding and has to be taken into account in some way by this EU Member State's government. I would like to ask whether this decision will somehow affect the position of the Czech Government in relation to Ukraine, particularly what is happening in Ukraine and in the Ukrainian Government, which, although currently in demise, is in a state that it is made up of a number of members who either do not have Ukrainian citizenship, have citizenship, for example, American or very strongly inclined to the right sector, which, as we know, do not hide their sympathies with the Banderian movement and movements, which are very close to fascinating tendencies, or I am not afraid to say, are fulfilling the fascist formations. In this context, I also want to ask whether the Czech Government is considering some reasonable measure of its policy, which would put an end to the fed anti-Russian and anti-Russian hysteria that is developing in the Czech Republic and clearly damages the commercial interests of the Czech Republic. I had the opportunity to participate recently -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u29	Mr. Ambassador, you won't have to do this until further notice. You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u30	I'll end one sentence, if you don't mind. ... the 25th anniversary of the merger of Mladá Boleslav Škoda with Volkswagen, where cooperation with the Russian Federation has just been lifted, and I think this is one of those moments that can harm Czech business interests.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u31	Don't bother me. The Prime Minister has time to respond to Europe's association agreement with Ukraine. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u32	Thank you. So, honourable Members, what has happened in Holland? In Holland, they have a new referendum law of 2015. According to him, citizens can request a referendum in this case at any time until the signing of the instruments of ratification. The referendum in Holland therefore took place, despite the fact that the two chambers of the Dutch Parliament had already agreed to ratify this agreement on an association agreement with Ukraine, but the Dutch Prime Minister had not yet attached his signature to this law, and thus the law could not enter into force. The results of the referendum are advisory according to Dutch legislation, i.e. do not bind the Dutch authorities to follow up. However, given the fact that the referendum under the rules there was valid, under Dutch law, the association agreement must at least be renegotiated by the Dutch Parliament and, of course, the Dutch Government and the Dutch representatives must take account of the will expressed by the citizens, and it will now be up to them to inform EU partners about what they want to do next from Holland. I think it is also good to recall that all other EU Member States have already implemented the ratification process according to the information at my disposal, i.e. In fact, Holland is the only state within the European Union that has now challenged the ratification process on the basis of the referendum results. However, in order for this agreement to enter into force, i.e. that the Parties to this Agreement, the Association Agreement with Ukraine, are in addition to the European Union and the Member States, and this Agreement requires ratification by all the Contracting Parties and enters into force only after the deposit of the last instrument of ratification, i.e. the situation in Holland needs to be taken into account and we will have to look for a sensible solution within the European Union. At least until the final declaration by the Netherlands on further action, the Association Agreement by the European Union will continue to be provisionally applied to the extent of the powers enjoyed by the European Union. So now we are looking for a legal solution, a question of consultation within the European Union, and it can be assumed that the first proposals following consultations between the Dutch Government and the European Union will probably be published in June this year. However, with regard to the association agreement with Ukraine and the Czech Government's policy, I would like to say that Czech foreign policy places emphasis on the stabilisation of Ukraine, we place emphasis on the continuation of the necessary structural reforms. And I am convinced that if we are interested in political and economic reforms in Ukraine, which would lead Ukraine to a democratic rule of law, then the association agreement between Ukraine and the European Union is a very good tool for Europe to support these positive changes in Ukraine. Thus, it is a means of applying - albeit indirect - what changes are being made in Ukrainian society and the Ukrainian state. [[15.10 hours]] So nothing changes for us. The Czech Republic, Parliament of the Czech Republic has ratified the Association Agreement, we are not going to question this agreement within the European Union, and we think that, although of course, there may be various critical opinions about what is happening in Ukraine, the situation there is very complex, the Ukrainian government is unstable, there are a number of serious problems, so I think that, regardless of that, we should look for all ways to help Ukraine to stabilise, even in the light of the still unsolved conflict between Ukraine and Russia. Here it is very important to concentrate on the implementation of the Minsk agreements, and with regard to the sanctions against Russia agreed upon by the whole of the European Union, the question of these sanctions is very closely linked to how the Minsk agreements are implemented. I would also like to remind you that the issue of exchange of prisoners on both Ukrainian and Russian sides is part of the Minsk agreements and that the Czech Republic will certainly appeal to the fulfilment of the Minsk agreements and, for example, to the Czech Republic. And this exchange of prisoners took place.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u33	Thank you, Prime Minister. The additional question will be asked by Mr Grospič. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u34	Thank you, Prime Minister. I am very pleased that we agree that the Minsk agreements are very crucial to the process that you have mentioned here, the process of democratisation, the stabilisation of Ukraine, being implemented. I would very much like the Czech Government to contribute to the legitimisation of the political parties operating in Ukraine, especially the Communist Party of Ukraine, and in this context I would also like the Czech Government to make an effort to put an end to the embargo on the Russian Federation as soon as possible, because this does not in itself contribute to the actual implementation of the Minsk agreements. In this context, too, I would like the Czech Republic to refrain from active participation in the North Atlantic Alliance in strengthening military contingents at the borders with the Russian Federation, because I think it is also one of the reasons that destabilise Ukraine, not contributing to its democratisation, but actually violating the very Minsk agreements and their principles.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u35	Thank you for keeping time this time. Prime Minister, is he interested in a follow-up? Yes, he does. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u36	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is very likely that the European Council will address the issue of the implementation of the Minsk agreements and will also address the question of sanctions at its next meeting, which should take place in June this year. As I said before, the position of the Czech Government is that we believe that sanctions are very closely linked to whether or not the Minsk agreements are being implemented. With regard to the fulfilment of the Minsk agreements, Russia has its obligations and Ukraine has its obligations. I have mentioned one subject here, I have mentioned the topic of the exchange of prisoners between Ukraine and Russia. This is also what I mentioned at the European Council meeting in relation to Mrs Savčenková, which has now been condemned in Russia. I believe that the solution to her case could just be implemented through the exchange of prisoners on both sides, and if that were to happen, there is a chance that another of the mine agreements will be fulfilled. But it must also be perceived that the right of Ukraine to regain control of its external borders is also part of the Minsk agreements. This has not yet been granted to Ukraine. These agreements also include the implementation of certain autonomy within the Ukrainian Constitutional System for the eastern part of Ukraine. This has not yet been achieved, including the elections. So I think that there are quite serious problems that concern the fulfilment of the Minsk agreements in all aspects, as they were mentioned and were defined at the time when we decided to introduce economic sanctions against Russia, and it is a common position of the European Union and I assume that Europe should continue to act together in this area. I think that does not preclude intensive negotiations with both Ukraine and Russia, and that the European Union acts in the direction of implementing the Minsk agreements in order to respond in the future, for example. by reducing the economic sanctions. But they can't be reduced without fulfilling the Minsk agreements.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u37	Thank you. Before we proceed, Mr Rom Kostřica canceled his apology by the end of the day, on the contrary, Mrs Martina Berdychová apologizes from 15 o'clock to the end of the day. Now, colleague Šincl. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, as you know, I am a Member of the Moravian-Silesian Region and I live in the Karvin region, where almost every other family is somehow associated with mining and OKD, where approximately 10,000 employees are still working today. It is still necessary to add thousands of employees of downstream companies to this figure. Unfortunately, according to the latest information, the situation in OKD is constantly deteriorating and is in real danger of crashing. The people who live here are afraid that the breadwinners of the local families will lose their jobs in a region where there are a long number of applicants at the employment office, where there is only a miniature chance of getting a decent job. So people are rightly interested in the future, whether they are facing poverty and social welfare, or how the state will help people in this severely tested region. Prime Minister, when the House of Deputies talks are over, I am going home to this region, and I can tell you that I, Members of this region, are not only asked about this situation by the miners, but literally every day people that I meet on the streets, even shopkeepers, ask me because some of them have a provider in the family associated with OKD and are afraid of what will happen. I answer to them that social democracy has pushed through the government's amendment on the early retirement of miners, which has already been passed in the Chamber of Deputies. second reading, and in addition, we have proposed to reduce the age of retirement of miners by another one or two years, i.e. six or seven years in total, because we believe that early retirement of miners will help reduce people's mining conditions without a severe increase in unemployment. It is logical that such extremely difficult underground work cannot be done until 65 years of age. The problem is, however, that all endangered miners and other workers of subsequent professions cannot be transferred to the pension because they do not fulfil the conditions for this early retirement, e.g. due to insufficient age, etc. [[Attention on time.]] Question: Dear Prime Minister, the situation in OKD in recent weeks has been very tense -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u39	Mr. Ambassador, you cannot violate the Rules of Procedure. You should have asked that question in the first two minutes. I understand what you're saying, but you only have to ask that question in an additional minute. The Prime Minister will certainly clarify the position of government against OKD even without your question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u40	Thank you. honourable Members, although Mr Šincl did not have time to ask the question, I listened to his speech and I understand what he was going for. Allow me to make three comments in three blocks concerning the current situation of OKD. One. What we've been experiencing in recent years is a significant drop in the prices of black coal. The situation leads to the conclusion that, gradually and as a result of these very low prices in Europe, deep coal mining ends. The last deep mine in the UK is planned to close the last deep mines in Germany, this week announced its collapse by the largest company in the United States, which is engaged in deep coal mining there, there are major problems in Poland. The government even responded by buying coal from mining companies into state reserves, i.e. It actually provides some indirect support to those who mine coal, and of course the problem has not been avoided by any means even by the Moravian-Silesian Region and OKD in particular. So we are facing a trend of long-term decline and long-term low prices of coal. When we started dealing with OKD after the start of our government, of course, we were looking for options such as. extend mining to the Paskov mine. We agreed on a compensation mechanism, but it ceased to apply precisely because coal prices fell even deeper than expected at the time of these negotiations. OKD is therefore in a very difficult situation at the moment. Two. We started preparing for possible redundancies from OKD. The preparation goes in several directions. The first direction has already been mentioned here by Mr Šincl, i.e. Amendment of the Act on the Early Departure of People Who Wrapped in Mines for at least 15 years, i.e. I hope here that the House will soon come to the approval of this law and will allow us to start retiring by the end of this year, so that people who have completed the relevant years can retire. [[15.20 hours]] The second thing prepared by the Ministry of Industry is a social programme of certain compensations for people who will have to leave OKD. This means, we are counting on it, and the government should discuss it in the coming months, that there will be some compensation, income compensation, for people who will have to leave OKD, so that they can better cope with this social situation. So we do not want to just leave them at the mercy of the current legislation, but we see that in this region it can mean a high concentration of unemployment, especially in Karvinsko. We want there to be a special government social program designed for people who will have to leave OKD. And then, of course, it's a question of active employment policy, support for new employers, direct placement of people who will have to leave OKD with state support to new employers' companies. That is the level of active employment policy. And there for several months the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, Ministry of Industry prepares relevant government documents, appropriate organizational measures. We also want to turn to the globalisation fund, which the European Union has, so that we can finance part of these measures from this fund, because the big and extensive problems of the OKD are also caused by the global impact of very low coal prices. The third issue concerns negotiations with creditors and owners of this company. These negotiations are taking place very intensively by the government with this company. Various options are considered that would allow the State to influence OKD restructuring in the coming months and to influence OKD depression. It is clear that at least part of OKD mines could benefit for several years, i.e. that we could mitigate the potential negative effects on employment, but this will require an active involvement of the State. I mean, the government is ready for this. And the government is ready to assess all possible options on how to influence the employment issue of OKD in the coming months and years in order to mitigate the negative effects of the OKD and event downturn. the extension of mining in those mines, where the extension of mining will still be possible. Of course, it would be ideal if OKD managed to get rid of debts that burdened it during the process, because this would, of course, encourage stabilization and maintenance of at least part of employment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u41	Thank you, Prime Minister. My colleague Šincl will ask questions in additional time. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u42	I also thank the President for letting me finish. I suppose he'll treat other interpellings equally fairly. However, I wanted to address the Prime Minister further. I believe that, first and foremost, it is necessary to help the miners of this company and, second and foremost, to preserve, if it is realistic, to a reasonable extent, mining in prospect mines. In no case should any form of extortion be taken to those who OKD have tunneled. However, I was also interested in the interesting question that appeared in the media, and this concerns so-called. nationalization. Mr. President said so. Somehow he didn't tell us how he meant it. I'd like your opinion on whether this is real or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now the Prime Minister on the issue of possible takeover by the state. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u44	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, above all OKD is a fully private enterprise. The government, or the Czech Republic lost the majority in OKD around 2001, 2002, i.e. In fact, it is a company that is already fully private. First of all, the owners and creditors of the company must bear the responsibility. The government will consider all possibilities, taking into account, first, the maintenance of employment or the regulation of employment, a reasonable distribution in time and economic costs for taxpayers. We will not proceed to risk taxpayers' funds without having a real impact on the situation in OKD and employment in OKD. I don't think we need any special laws on OKD nationalization. This is not part of the alternatives the government is working on. But I think there are standard instruments within the legal system that we can use to enable the government to actively influence the situation of OKD in the coming weeks and months. So we're ready, and it doesn't require us to adopt any law at the moment that involves nationalizing the OKD.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u45	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. And we will continue to interpel Mrs Věra Kovářová's absence from the members of the government. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u46	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, when I warned you in the past about the sporadic attendance of some ministers for oral questioning, you answered me in the spirit that they were doing what they could to prosecute and that, in the absence, they provided nice written answers. That's not happening. I have the latest evidence of deviant relations between Parliament and the government from constitutional limits for a few days. In response to my question about the subsidy fraud presented during the oral interview at the 42nd meeting, the then traditionally absent finance minister replied to me later in writing with these words - I quote: "I provided answers to your questions in my speech at the 43rd extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament of the Czech Republic on 23 March 2016.' This - in quotation marks - concludes the answer. I consider it scandalous. If we allow this, as Members, ministers can write to us directly next time to Google the answers to our questions. Mr President, please set order and explain to the members of the government, especially to the Minister of Finance, that there is a need for oral questioning and, in the absence of a good answer. I believe that the Social Democrats are interested in maintaining parliamentary democracy. Tolerating described excesses undermines her. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u47	I thank Mrs Kovářová for her time to interpel on the opening question, and the Prime Minister is ready to answer. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u48	Thank you. Madam, honourable Members, I think it will be useful if I have the statistics of the ministers' participation and the minister's intervention here in the Chamber of Deputies to be processed. So I will ask for the processing of such statistics, and then, of course, I will publish it so as to make it clear how it really is with the participation here in the Chamber of Deputies in oral intercessions. On the basis of this statistics, I will speak to those ministers who have the worst results, and I will ask them to participate in the interview. If one of the Members is not satisfied with the response to the interpelation, he has the opportunity to include this interpelation in the deliberations of the Chamber of Deputies in the form of written interpelation, where the reply will not be agreed with. So I think that Parliament has a mechanism to achieve such an event. a lack of response, e.g. here. The honourable Member quoted that she was here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. But it requires the use of the mechanism. Otherwise, I think we have, I hope, all of us, as we are here, an interest in keeping the parliamentary democratic system in the Czech Republic. A part of it is the responsibility of the government to the Chamber of Deputies, which, of course, the Chamber of Deputies applies also through parliamentary interventions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u49	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mrs Kovářová has an additional question. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u50	I thank the President for his explanation. As he said some time ago as an opposition Member in the House of Deputies, and I fully agree with that - I quote the Prime Minister: "It is indeed a bit of a strange interpelation in a situation where the Prime Minister is not here." And I add that interpelations are just as strange when some government members can't arrive for two thirds of oral interpellation for various reasons or they haven't been able to come to interpellation for a long time. This calls for either an exchange of ministers or a change of system. In my opinion, this is also a matter of level, respect and authority of the Chamber of Deputies itself. The government derives its legitimacy from the trust of the Chamber of Deputies, not the other way around. I believe that the Prime Minister also agrees with this thesis and its necessary consequences. And to point out, Prime Minister, oral questioning has a spell in that they can be answered immediately. Whereas writing takes a really long time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u51	Prime Minister? No, he's not interested in a follow-up answer. We will therefore continue to interpel Mrs Pavlína Nytrová on the anti-corruption policy of the government. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u52	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, the good news is that after many years of decline, the Czech Republic is improving in the index of perception of corruption. The reason may be that serious organised corruption with political interference has ceased to be ignored by law enforcement authorities. Yet so far, there are large reserves in the area of combating corruption. Corruption is still felt by the public as one of the country's most serious problems. In its programming statement, the government committed itself to a non-negotiable fight against all forms of corruption. The Government has approved specific bills or amendments that are now undergoing a legislative process in Parliament. What does the government expect from these measures? Does the government consider its fight against corruption successful?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u53	Thank you for a very short question. The Prime Minister is ready. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u54	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am, of course, glad that the index of perception of corruption in the Czech Republic has been improving in recent years, that is, the parameters are improving and the Czech Republic is returning to the civilised developed countries where I believe it belongs. Is the government's fight against corruption successful? I hope this is one of the parameters that shows it. First of all, it is important, in my view, that the government is trying to fully implement the programme as we agreed on it in the framework of the Government's programming declaration and we are trying to improve the parameters with regard to setting the rules for the functioning of the public sector for the functioning of the policy. There are some laws that have been in the Chamber of Deputies for a long time, and I might have used this interpellation to appeal to the Chamber of Deputies to speed up their negotiations. I would like to mention a law that sets out stricter rules for controlling the financing of political parties, including the establishment of a special office, which would be in charge of this matter, as recommended by the GRECO International Committee, which deals with this area. The amendment hasn't been approved yet, but the government submitted it a long time ago. Another thing is the amendment to the Conflict of Interest Act, which introduces the possibility of publication on one Internet address of all notices of public officials and also introduces a notice of property at the beginning of a public office. The amendment has been tabled again and has been here in the Chamber of Deputies for a long time. What I am glad that has been approved is a new law on public procurement that does not allow public procurement to be obtained by companies that have anonymous shares. In Parliament, the government has sent an amendment to the law that introduces the register of final owners, which means there will be a chance to verify the final owners of companies within the register, which I believe will be led by the Ministry of Justice. So this is another important measure that has been taken. The Chamber of Deputies approved a parliamentary proposal this time concerning the register of treaties. The Ministry of Interior is working to enable this register of contracts to be launched this year. There's a law on proof of the origin of property in the Chamber of Deputies. I think it is not only a matter of measures aimed at combating tax evasion, but I think it is also an important anti-corruption measure. That the financial authorities have an instrument to determine the origin of the assets. So that's another thing. I also consider the Civil Service Act, which the Czech Republic has not had for a long time, to be important systemically. We put him through. The system is starting to organize on the basis of principles that are once again valid in civilized European countries. This means that selection procedures are taking place for all leading positions in the state administration and I assume that this will result in us having professional and impartial state administration in the coming years. But, of course, it is very important for the public administration to act transparently. I am glad that most ministries and authorities, before the register of contracts starts to work, have already published contracts, have published orders to a certain extent, and I am also glad that the government has no scandals regarding the application of the Public Procurement Act within the Government's mandate. That's what I think is important, too. And that we are trying to place emphasis on fair competition, that some old contracts should also be competing, that even enduring suppliers for countries that supply long-term information technology or other services are competing, and that for some reason competition has been forgotten in the past. So there are a number of things that are being done, and hopefully this will help to improve the quality of the public sector and that people will be sure that their money is being managed transparently.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u55	Thank you, Prime Minister. My colleague Nytra doesn't have an additional question, we can proceed. This time, it will be Mr Martin Novotný's interpellation with the European Commission on ecological parameters for buildings. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u56	Prime Minister, the construction of motorways and express roads is one of your government's priorities in the programming declaration in the Transport chapter and, of course, is also of strategic importance for the further development of our country and the level of economic prosperity. In addition to the very unclear outlook for the future of tolling system, which I have repeatedly asked in the interpellations, tolling system as an important source of income for the development of transport infrastructure, is a fundamental threat to the timing of the motorway network's need to implement new EIA opinions. However many Members, including me, have pointed out this risk in advance in the long run, I do not want to go back to the past on this issue, I am particularly interested in the wider present and future. This is such a strategic issue that it no doubt deserves the involvement of senior government officials, ministers and the Prime Minister in foreign negotiations. Experience shows that negotiations with representatives of the European Commission at a lower level are not effective, it becomes a mere bureaucracy without political content, mandate and relevance. A top representation is therefore needed. I therefore want to ask you whether and with whom of the European Commission and the institutions of the European Union you have yet to deal with this issue personally and with what outcome. At what level is the meeting of the Ministry of Transport taking place, and what steps are you personally and the government taking in this matter now and will you do in the near future in order that the EIA problem does not really mean the implementation of strategic transport structures in our country?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u57	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Prime Minister is ready for an answer. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u58	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the topic of the EIA will also be up to date in the coming months and years, because we in the Czech Republic have about a hundred construction projects that have EIA opinions under the 1990s law. What I would say is a paradox, these are actually buildings that acquired the EIA 15 or more years ago. The state hasn't been able to start their construction since. And when I asked the Department of Transport to get a report on how these buildings are prepared, I find that not only was the state unable to start construction, but the state couldn't, in most cases, even prepare the constructions. Between the hundred buildings there are buildings that do not have the land bought out. There are constructions that still do not have territorial decisions. In 15 years, almost nothing has been done. Of course, the EIA is something that is an important condition for us to prepare, prepare and launch these buildings. At this point, maybe when we talk about the state of preparation of hundreds of those old buildings, we've had about 12 transport ministers since 2000. This may also not have helped to create stability in terms of preparation and to make the Czech Republic one of the countries where transport structures can be built at a rapid pace. The first thing that was resolved was the harmonisation of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. If we hadn't done that, we wouldn't have spent last year on the money we had and we could have spent on the transports. I'm glad it went perfectly well. We therefore have a harmonised environmental impact assessment law. And now we need to deal with these old buildings. [[15.40 hours]] We are trying to find a way so that we do not have to make a new EIA for all these buildings, that is, to agree with the European Commission such a methodology to update the EIA opinion, that is, a process of confirming the EIA by the Ministry of the Environment. Although we have repeatedly intervened both at ministerial level, I have intervened at my personal level and I am going to do so again, so far we have not been able to agree with the European Commission such a methodology which would guarantee that the process of updating the existing EIA opinions will be shorter than if we had undergone a new EIA process for these buildings. That is why we are preparing in parallel, and the Ministry of Transport, and that it will be necessary either for all or for the vast majority of these buildings to implement the new EIA, and in this respect the Ministry of Transport has launched the necessary preparatory steps this year. Once, and I assume that it will be a matter of the next few weeks, the agreement with the European Commission will be on a possible methodology for the delegation of EIA opinions, it will need to be pragmatically assessed whether it will be more effective for the state to follow this possible new methodology, which will be agreed with the European Commission, or whether it will be more effective from a time point of view, in order to simply undergo a new EIA process for these old buildings, which has not yet been built and which has not yet been launched. So this is a very brief report on the current situation here. At the same time, I would like to say that if I was talking about the low degree of readiness of about hundreds of buildings, we are obviously trying, where possible, to advance and implement the steps so that we can then speed up their construction. I would like to mention, for example, the question of the D11 motorway, i.e. today, D35, where at the moment we are trying to ensure that archaeological research is carried out, so that it does not prevent us from starting these buildings in the future when we have all the necessary permits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u59	Thank you, Prime Minister. My colleague Novotný is about to ask an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your minute.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u60	Prime Minister, as much as the level of readiness of these buildings is undoubtedly different, some of them are prepared, some of them are worse. But my question was a little different. Your answer was official. We have long experience that other countries - perhaps our closest neighbour Slovakia because of a number of things was willing to go into an open conflict with the European Union, such as their interventions in water infrastructure and the like. Only the willingness of the Prime Minister to go into an open political conflict has led to a re-evaluation of the European Commission's positions and a fight against our priorities. I'm afraid it won't be possible without this kind of activity. My question was whether you were prepared for it and willing for it, or whether you would continue to proceed in a more official manner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u61	I thank Mr Novotný. The Prime Minister will give an additional answer. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u62	Thank you. If we were to proceed in a business manner, we certainly did not spend the money that was intended for the construction of transport infrastructure last year and we had to return it to Brussels. We try to react pragmatically, we try to react flexibly. At this point, we are conducting very intensive negotiations with the European Commission at several levels to address the problem. But we can't skip a few years of neglected preparation. Yes, I agree with you, perhaps at ten, eleven, twelve buildings from that hundred is preparation in an advanced phase. Unfortunately, not with the others. And for those in advanced stages, we're trying to identify the possibility of accelerated driving so that we don't have to go through the classic EIA. And that is what we are discussing with the European Commission now, whether there is a chance of such accelerated management and whether it will be effective for us in time. And besides, we're doing preparatory work to eventually make the new EIA possible everywhere. When it comes to conflict, we were in conflict. We've had a law for years that didn't comply with the rules. And only last year did we bring the law into line with the rules. If this had happened before, we might have already had a new EIA on most of the communications we're talking about today. Time's been wasted a lot. Maybe he was wasting his time expecting it to work itself out. It didn't solve itself, and in this case, we have to make concrete decisions for each of the buildings. I also say this because we want to use European funds to build them. And if we do not agree on precise rules, the use of European funds will not be possible, and we will have to build those roads exclusively on national resources. So now it is also about being able to finance the construction of European funds in the future so that we do not have the money left and we do not have to return it back to Brussels.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u63	Thank you, Prime Minister. We will continue to interpel Mr Simeon Karamazov. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u64	Dear Prime Minister, a recent visit to the President of the People's Republic of China has aroused interest not only in view of the possible economic cooperation of both countries, but also in terms of human rights issues. Although both planes cannot be combined, I don't think we can even completely separate them. The fight for human rights has played an important role in the history of our country and we should not resign now. I therefore ask you whether you have discussed the issue of human rights with the President of the People's Republic of China and what assurances you have received in this context. At the same time, I am interested in your personal view of the government of one party in the People's Republic of China and whether, given its position, this country is capable of gradual democratisation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u65	Thank you. The Prime Minister is ready to answer. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u66	Thank you. We are part of the dialogue that is being conducted between the European Union and China today on the issue of human rights. The dialogue is, of course, conducted at European level within the framework of the strategic partnership between the European Union and China. At the same time, the dialogue is also sought by individual EU Member States in their contacts with China, and so is the Czech Republic. This topic was part of my discussion, which I had during my visit to the President of China here in Prague in recent days. I think it is important to realise that China today has a very intensive special relationship with a number of European countries. As I said today, it is the second largest economy in the world. In the last 20 years, this economy has been significantly liberalized and China is largely opening up to the world. And I think it's this effort to be open, communicative and dialogue that can help us to understand each other better. Of course, the Chinese political and economic system is different from what we know in the Czech Republic or which we know in Europe. I think it is important that relations are based on mutual respect, that they are based on respect for the sovereignty of the partners and respect for their right to choose the path they take. This does not mean that we should resign to our values, to the belief that the democratic liberal political system is the most sensible way in terms of society's development. I also spoke about this during the visit of the President of the People's Republic of China, because the terms of stability, harmony are very often mentioned in China, and I am convinced that respect for human rights, respect for and protection of fundamental freedoms are one of the important prerequisites for such development if a company is to be stable in the long term and to develop harmoniously. Here I think that the human rights dialogue that is being conducted between China and the European Union today can contribute to sharing experience and improving mutual communication.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u67	Thank you, Prime Minister. Simeon Karamazov has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u68	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that you spoke to the Chinese President about this in dialogue. I wonder, then, what did the Chinese President say about this? And then the second answer - virtually. the question remained unanswered. What is your personal view of this matter with respect to China? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u69	Thank you. The Prime Minister is preparing for a follow-up response. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u70	Thank you. I can confirm that the Government of the Czech Republic is trying to make the subject of human rights, the subject of the rule of law, the subject of fundamental human freedoms, and when I talk about those rights, they are not only political, but they are also social rights, economic rights, so that our dialogue, which we have greatly intensified with China in recent years, includes this aspect. We don't want it to be a subject we avoid. And I think it has to do with the long tradition Czech foreign policy has. We have always been associated with the fact that we are accentuating the subject of respect for human rights, and it is also part of the dialogue that we are conducting with China today. And I am glad that this is also part of the dialogue that many other European countries are conducting with China today. So this subject has been the subject of discussion and I must say that the Chinese representatives with whom I have had the opportunity to negotiate do not prevent us from discussing these matters and do not prevent us from sharing our views, which are, of course, from a different perspective and based on the experience we have, the experience we have in the Czech Republic and, of course, the experience they have in terms of the development of Chinese society, especially in terms of the last twenty years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u71	I thank the Prime Minister and we will continue with the interview of Mr Petr Fiala on the asylum system. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u72	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, my interpelation concerns a subject on which you have already been consulted, which means the new proposals to amend the asylum system submitted by the European Commission. Of course, I listened as you answered, so I'm going to modify my question in a direction that you haven't said yet. The proposal, of course, contains a change in asylum policy, its federalisation, and also a proposal for new relocation quotas. In this context, I would like to know whether your government will actively seek to ensure that the concrete form of these proposals is not yet known, of course, but that the specific form of these proposals has been discussed or decided at European Council level, where we really have a real opportunity to prevent this decision, and not to discuss these proposals in the Council of the European Union, where once again the qualified majority at ministerial level threatens to revote, as has happened in the case of quotas in September last year. And I am asking this in advance because we asked about this before the quotas were accepted, where the Czech Republic was overvoted. We were assured that there was no risk that they would be decided at European Council level, which eventually happened. So what's it like now? And will the Czech Government be sufficiently active on this matter? Will they try to do everything in their power to actually decide at the European Council where we have all the prerequisites to prevent this idea?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u73	I thank my colleague Fial for his question. The Prime Minister is ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u74	Thank you. Madam, honourable Members, in terms of tactical action, this is the right path, which means that we are able to make the most effective use of our influence, which we have within the framework of membership of the European Union by moving such a fundamental and serious decision to the level of the European Council, where the principle of unanimity is necessary. Thus, we will try to achieve that, in the event that it turns out that there is no chance of a consensus on the current proposal from the European Commission, the proposal will be revised in a significant way. What does not make the situation easier for us is, of course, the European Parliament's position, which has been adopted in relatively recent times on this issue, when a large part of the Members of the European Parliament have expressed itself in support of the last European Commission proposal to reform asylum policy. We'll have to deal with that, too. And part of the Czech Republic's initiative will also be to create a wider coalition than just the V4 countries, which would act together and which would propose joint amendments to the European Commission's proposal. We want to focus on the changes in the areas that bother us most, and that is, firstly, the federalisation of European asylum policy, that is, the transfer of decisions to European level as regards asylum policy in individual countries, and secondly, the establishment of a permanent mechanism for the redistribution of refugees in Europe as something with which it would be impossible to move afterwards, that is, it would no longer be possible to intervene in the rules as it would have been set up in this way. Here I think we have a relatively good chance of uniting more states, including some Western European states, because I believe that the opinion on quotas has evolved in the last year. Many countries find that this is not a good method. And I think that a number of examples from Eastern or Central Europe, and we have our own examples, after all, show that the quota distribution system is not effective and does not work in many cases. That means there are specific examples of this. Where quotas were implemented or where redistribution was carried out, this did not lead to any long-term sustainable result. So in these two areas, we're going to try to change. We will strive for a wider coalition of countries. The Czech Republic will be active in this. We will try to take initiative. We're still going to use the time when we're the V4 Presidency. And then, of course, we will talk intensively with Slovakia, which will chair the whole of the European Union, and we will talk intensively with Poland, which will take over the V4 Presidency after the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u75	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Fiala has an additional question. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u76	Thank you. Of course, I hope in the interests of the Czech Republic that this strategy will work. However, I would like to ask if this were not successful, it was indeed decided in the Council of the European Union and we would be re-voted whether this time the Czech Government is ready to take a different position in the case of bringing an action against the European Court of Justice. Because, as you know, Prime Minister, we had a different opinion on how the Czech Government should have acted in favour of voting last September. But here the situation would be different again. The attitude toward quotas has changed, as you say. Is or would the Czech Government be prepared to join other countries this time and file a lawsuit?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u77	Thank you. The Prime Minister will complete it. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u78	Thank you. Of course, this defensive tactic of ours may not be successful. This can happen if we fail to get enough allies within the European Union. However, the atmosphere that was created when four countries were outvoted within the European Council, so the atmosphere in my opinion helps our strategy. I do not think that there is much willingness within the European Union, even for those countries that promote quotas, to push them through in a way that a minority of the European Union countries will be overvoted. The subject is too serious for that, and the decision is actually permanent. That means the rules would work very rigidly in the future before they could be changed. I think that there is a big difference between a decision on a one-off system for the redistribution of refugees in the face of the crisis situation in which the European Union has found itself today and a permanent mechanism which introduces a principle involving a kind of federal common asylum policy and, at the same time, a system for the redistribution of refugees. So here I think we're talking about something that's qualitatively different from what we've discussed before. [[16.00 hours]] And since this is a very serious decision, I think that we, in terms of our negotiating tactics, cannot rule out any decision that will be at the end. I just don't want to rule out any decisions at this point. We will act according to how the interests of the Czech Republic can be enforced, and I mean the interests of reason in terms of negotiating the future form of European asylum policy, and I do not want to rule out any decision that will be at the end.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u79	Thank you to the Prime Minister, and since it is 16 o'clock, the Prime Minister's interpelations have ended and we will continue with the government's interpelations in the winning order, and I will hand over the meeting proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u80	Good afternoon. The first draw is Mrs Kovářová, whom I would like to ask to present her intervention on the Minister of Finance. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u81	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, after a while, I am addressing you with an oral interview on the topic of the subsidy programme at the Ministry of Finance known as Support for the Development and Reconstruction of the Material Technical Base of Regional Schools in the Surroundings of Large Towns. The program is successful, I think, which proves the initial or even completed reconstruction in a number of places. Only in the vicinity of Prague is the Dolní Břežany, Černošice or Průhonice. However, I am afraid that the problem of the lack of school capacity for which municipalities themselves do not have the means to build is not entirely addressed by the current steps. My question therefore points to whether the Ministry of Finance is also counting on the study that identified areas with insufficient school capacity, with the continuation of this subsidy programme in the coming years, and whether some of its conditions will be adjusted as appropriate. If the conditions were to be adjusted, I would be in favour of consulting the municipalities concerned before doing so. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u82	I thank you, Madame, and please the next in line, and this is Mrs Semelová to present her interpelation to the Minister of the Interior. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u83	Thank you. Dear Minister, my interpelation concerns the Post Partner project, i.e. the transfer of branches of the Czech Post to other operators, such as municipal authorities and local traders. According to the Association of Local Authorities, the current situation of the Posta Partner project is unsatisfactory and therefore called on the Government to revise it by letter. The municipalities in charge of the operation of the post office may have problems with the budget, because the remuneration for the operation of the franchise will barely cover half the costs. Some municipalities also complain about unilateral operating conditions, a high level of responsibility and the risk of sanctions. According to available information, the post office has already transferred 129 branches, this year it plans to transfer another 200. The association also criticizes that the Czech Telecommunications Authority still has not issued an implementing decree for the implementing law. It is not clear what density of the network of branches will have to operate Česká pošta, so the mayors have no place to verify whether or not the post will end in their village. Czech Post operates 3214 branches, of which approximately 140 partners, employs over 30,000 people. By 2025, the post office should have only 700 own branches and 2500 partner offices. So I'm asking, do you expect to reconsider the terms of the Posta Partner project? Aren't you worried about shutting down branches in the municipalities? Do you have any measures prepared to prevent this? I draw attention to the effects on employment and citizens. Finally, why wasn't the implementing decree issued in time? Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u84	I think it doesn't have to be written, it can be direct. I'll ask the Minister for a reaction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u85	[[It shows a pencil found on the speaker's desk:]] Vote eight, it says here. [[Fun.]] Madam President, honourable Members, we often return to the Czech Post and I will ask the Director of the Czech Post for a half-term report on the implementation of the Post Partner programme, because this is one of the projects that is very important for the further development of the Czech Post. Regarding the closure of branches, and I want to confirm once again that the Post Partner project is not in the model that the post office should force the municipalities to take over or the entrepreneurs to take over, but it is an offer. It's an offer they can or may not accept. If they do not accept it, then the Czech Post will have nothing left but to adjust the parameters to pay them off. There may be a different view of the post office in a small village and a larger city. At the same time, if the post office fails, it will have to continue to operate the branch to its burden. That means, the main person who should be interested in making the project work is the Czech Post. When we decided here to approve the law on financing the Czech Post towards the subsidy to pay so-called. public service costs, so the Czech Post promised and declared that the Posta Partner project is one of the pillars of cost reduction. Otherwise, to split funding between the Czech Post and its partner, which, however, receives a reward from the Czech Post for operating. The rewards were increasing. The question is whether it's enough, and we're going to evaluate it in the midterm right now, if the system was set up correctly. The amount of the commission is set with the fact that the provision of postal services is associated with another, mostly the existing activity of a third party - either the municipal authority that assigns it to its agenda, or it is some business entity, whether a colonial, a petrol pump or anything that operates in the locality. I have visited several partner branches and I must say that they work for the benefit of entrepreneurs, but above all for the benefit of the public. For example, many branches have expanded their working hours compared to the current situation. Therefore, during the agreed period of hours for the public, the contract agent may also pursue other gainful activities, on the basis of an agreement and, in particular, on the basis of what he has done. Czech Post is operated in the infocentre. The Post Office Partner will be an employee of the municipal office and will also carry out the activities of the municipal office, as I have already said. I also visited, for example, a branch that was associated with the colonial. The motivational system of the Post Partner project was revised last year. The commission was set at 32 percent. Let's see if this is enough. The Czech Post incentive system intends to change and adapt precisely the supply and demand of this project in the future. If there is an increase, I will be a proponent to increase everyone, even those who have already negotiated it under worse contractual conditions. This cannot be left to those who approached the project at a time when the conditions were less favourable. I categorically refuse to disturb the mail. As for the current state of affairs, we are in negotiations with the Czech Television as well as with the number of branches. ČTÚ was a state institute that promoted a reduction to 2100, but we are prepared to maintain the whole range, i.e. 3,200 branches. It doesn't mean that if the Post Partner project doesn't occur in a given location, the mail will close. Citizen's services restrictions. I think the opposite is true, and many partner mails are right about that. Additional passes, such as lottery tickets and others, of course they can be or are realized within our partners, and therefore they have a commission in accordance with the agreement that is given. We are also counting on the fact that we are currently preparing a competition for a partner in financial services, and of course we are ready for this partner to work as part of the Posta Partner project. This means that this contract will also be offered to our partners within the individual post offices, which will therefore come out of the full supervision of the Czech Post and enter into the Posta Partner project. We are counting on this project to expand to a whole segment of financial services, which means not only money services but also insurance. So far, we are looking for one big, strong partner to integrate all these services. The implementing decree you are talking about, I need to find out the details and I will send you this information in writing if that is how we can agree. You said why the implementing decree wasn't on time. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Your time, Minister!]] I'm not familiar with the information. I'll find out the details, and I'll let you know in writing, my colleague. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u86	Madame, would you like to ask an additional question? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u87	Thank you for the written answer. Otherwise, I welcome the fact that you said that you would preserve all the branches that are, that is, roughly the 3,200, that you refuse to cancel the mail. In this context, however, I again draw attention to the risk that there are actually private individuals who are in charge of this project and that those private individuals can go bankrupt. So this really needs to be watched. Let us remember that this is a public service after all. As a public service, it should be ensured, first and foremost, by the state in order to avoid any disruption due to savings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u88	I'll thank you, and I'll ask the minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u89	Thank you for the addition. When we discussed funding from the state towards the Czech Post, one of the reasons was to preserve the entire branch network. The Postal Partner project is a project that treats it as a side project designed to economicize the operation of the Czech Post. We are based on experience from all over the world and Europe, where the majority of the branch network in Germany, in Austria, is in the hands of contractual, i.e. private partners. In these countries, this is more than 70 percent of the branches operated by this system. I can't rule out a private person going bankrupt sometimes. We will look very operationally and quickly for a replacement, or there would have to be some kind of mobile solution for the transitional period, but also Czech Post perceives these risks and will be ready for them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u90	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Holečka to present his intervention on Minister Dienstbier. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u91	Dear Minister, I am interrogating you on the worsening situation in our Ústí Region. In October last year, you presented a cook to solve problems in excluded localities. I'm not entirely convinced that your cookbook would be functional. There have been more and more recent cases of criminal activity. The last two from last week speak for everything. The first time a boy in Ústí nad Labem was beaten by a gang of about 20 teenagers. I myself live in Ústí nad Labem, I have two small children and I am afraid to let them go. Another bad thing is the case from Krupka, Teplice, where two Romani families fought, even with knives and machetes, as well as in the song Pohoda from the Teplice group Kabát. Six of them ended up in the hospital. That's just two cases this week. I would advise you to come back north and advise local authorities on how to prevent these unpleasant situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u92	I thank you and ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u93	So, honourable Member, I regularly come up north and visit the town of Krupka. And even these days, my office has been in contact with both Mr. Mayor Matouš and other institutions in the city. According to information from Mayor Matouš, this was an isolated internal incident in Krupka, which did not endanger other citizens of the city, nor did it affect the overall security of the city. The situation in the village is calm, the escalation is not afraid. On the other hand, the city has learned to solve a number of problems in community work emerging in a socially excluded locality and to communicate with people living there. The mayor appreciated the work of the city police and the Police of the Czech Republic, which handled the incident very well and quickly. The locality is operated by the so-called local Rom supervisory service, which is paid by the Labour Office. And it was this supervisory service that helped to draw attention to the conflict and contributed to the fact that the police could have solved it very quickly. We also have information from the City Police Commander in Mr. Petrák's Krupka. The health conflict between Rom people lasted about one minute. It was a gradation of verbal insults by two Romani families, which was based on purely personal conflicts. There's a detachment of the city police department on the estate. The officers have the confidence of both the Rom and the majors. There's a city surveillance system built up. The locality is operated by crime prevention assistants, there is good cooperation with the District Building Association Teplice, which manages the housing fund in Krupka. The housing team installs security features in the homes at the request of the residents even after consulting the city police, lighting, security doors and similar measures. We also have information from the liaison officer for minorities of the Regional Directorate of the Police of the Czech Republic of the Ústecký Region. Police of the Czech Republic are monitoring the situation. According to her information, the estate is quiet. A police specialist for working with Rom people in socially excluded localities is working on the housing estate in Krupka. According to him, the situation is also under control and there is no further escalation of problems in Krupka. Additional information from our work, in particular the Agency for Social Inclusion. There are non-profit organizations in the locality, such as Slovo 21 and their project for Romani women Manushe or citizenship counseling, civil and human rights, which operates low-level facilities for children and youth, and the city uses the good practice recommended by the Agency, a combination of social work and situational prevention, crime prevention assistants, camera systems, etc. And it's involving the nonprofit sector. Of all the information we have at our disposal, the risk of escalating problems, whether according to the mayor, the city police, the Police of the Czech Republic, or at the place where non-governmental organizations operate is currently not at risk. There is no noticeably greater tension and the situation is not heated. It was really an isolated individual conflict. And also based on his personal experience of visiting Krupka, where integration policy is being done for a long time, which is the case with Krupka thanks to local politicians, but also cooperation with the city police, state police and non-profit organizations, so long-term tensions can be dampened and problems overcome. I think I've given a whole series of examples of how this is going. So I don't agree with the statement that appeared somewhere in the media that there's some tension growing. I think it is clear from what I have said that this was an isolated incident arising from personal relationships.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u94	Thank you. The Member wishes to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u95	More like thank you. I'm a little relieved that you're not afraid of escalating, because if we're scared of something in the Ústí Region, it's just that people are going to walk back into our streets and march. So in this, I have to say, I'm satisfied. But as far as overall inclusion, inclusion, inclusion are concerned, we have been including it for so long, I think, as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u96	The Minister wants to respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u97	So it's probably not whether I'm afraid of escalating in this case, but the people who live in the place are acting and having the experience, so they say that there's no escalation at this time. If I was afraid of escalation, then if a single case like this in the media is taken as an example of a common situation in the place, it will escalate the situation, and eventually maybe there will be some booger people coming from somewhere else, as we have seen in the past.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u98	Thank you. And now, to Mr. Zahradník's microphone, I ask that he present his interpelation to Mr. Richard Brabec, the Minister of the Environment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u99	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, at the beginning of March, the draft Air Protection Act was discussed here in the House at first reading, and in a rather comprehensive discussion it was mentioned mostly by a controversial paragraph allowing the control of heating sites in houses, from whose chimneys there is smoke bothering supposedly or indeed the surrounding area. The controversy and the debate was about whether it makes sense to intervene so significantly in the home freedom and to allow the inspection authorities to enter either municipalities with extended scope or environmental protection authorities into houses and directly in the homes of people to explore what they are drowning in their heating sites. The question is whether it makes any sense at all, whether it can produce any effect, whether the sanctions which then result and which are quite large, draconian, will fall on fertile soil. Whether the people who do this will actually be able to pay the fines. Your Deputy Minister, Mrs Berenika Peštová, has said in the media this: it is not a priority for us to walk and give sanctions to socially weak people. We want to teach people not to burn trash, so they poison other people's lives. We want to raise them, says the Deputy Minister. Do you really think, Minister, that the task of officials, whether at the level of municipalities or environmental authorities, is to raise people in this way? That it is necessary to change the law in this way and thus significantly interfere with the home freedom only and only for the purpose of some kind of education? You may already see that the penalty impact of the law will not be as you expect it to be. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u100	I thank you and ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u101	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I thank my colleague Zahradník for the question. First of all, I am glad that this discussion has taken place. Unfortunately, I couldn't take part in the committee. I was looking forward to it. I'm sure there'll be an opportunity. When I heard the media voice of the word to raise, I think it turned out beautifully that the media shortcut, unfortunately, is transporting the content, or the form is transporting the content, because of course I can't speak for Deputy Minister Peštová. I would probably use a different word than raising, because I really am skeptical enough to raise adults in some things, it works better in children, it is just like in the case of waste, sorting waste. However, whatever the word - I say, I don't know exactly what context it was said in, I just heard the response that provoked it, and I don't think it was quite right. But the key thing that's in that law and where we still believe that it will have the effect is some motivation. And motivation can be positive and also negative. This positive motivation is within the framework of the boiler subsidies project, where we simply allow and want to allow people who are interested in buying a modern new boiler, economical, to take advantage of the very interesting conditions that the state is offering today and will offer in the coming years, and on the other hand there is also a certain instrument that - as we are absolutely convinced - is still missing from the municipalities. We are, and I have already mentioned it here in the introductory words, received responses from tens to the Ministry of the Environment, perhaps from more than a hundred municipalities in all this time, not perhaps, but certainly where the municipalities say: you actually gave us certain competences in 2012, even before 2012, into the Air Protection Act, but basically you did not give us a methodology, a means of ensuring that competence, or how to implement it, how to enforce it. And all of us, or certainly a lot of us, know from around here the cases of those notorious pricks who poison the atmosphere of the neighborhood, and they're just invincible. And that is why we have reached this - I have said it again here in the opening step - to the extreme means with a good comparison of constitutionality and balance between two constitutional rights, namely the right to privacy, the integrity of dwellings and, on the other hand, the right to a healthy environment. I didn't change the belief that if the law passed, it would have an effect, it would have a preventive effect, and that, for the most part, the possibility that, under certain clearly defined conditions, the entrance to the dwelling could happen, so a number of these latent offenders simply dissuade and give the municipalities an instrument that the municipalities have been calling for for for a very long time. That's the final point. You know well, Mr Member, by your means, Madam President, that the experiments have actually been here before, and a similar attempt has been made by my predecessor, Minister Chalupa, nominated for the ODS, who has also been given a task from the government to prepare a legislative solution that would eliminate or minimize this failure. He didn't do it. We believe that we are close to the solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u102	Thank you. The Member will ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u103	Thank you. What word, Minister, would you use? Maybe intimidate him. Maybe that's a word that would come in handy. But remember, in order to train or intimidate people in some way preventively, you're giving the law another option, along with a court order, to enter the house, disrupt house freedom, and control people's control of something that's going on in that house. That's what you want to try, when you want to take weapons away from people, it's over and over again. You're still trying to limit people's freedom. Of course the road is different than this law. This law opens the way for the bullying application of the law. People who argue with each other, complainants, may somehow harm their neighbors by turning the controls on them. I dare you to think about it again, try to think about it in second reading, see if you can get that paragraph out of the law. [[Time warning]] I'll suggest it at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u104	Thank you. The Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u105	I certainly wouldn't use a word to intimidate, because if we started having fun on that level, we would actually say that almost every sanction that's in the law is intimidating people who don't follow the law. I'd like to reminisce about the thing that might fit in. I have to admit, I was surprised by her, too. I was looking for her there, and I found that I wasn't wrong. Thus, at the end of last year, the amendment to the Public Health Act or the Health Act, where relatively quietly passed a very similar possibility of controlling households in the event of noise levels being violated, began to apply. In other words, if someone has a full-time radio somewhere, for example, someone will mind, there really is a possibility of entering the home to find the source. So it's not a precedent. The precedent has actually been made here, and it's here. And then we can discuss whether elevated noise levels have a greater impact on health than dioxins produced by burning plastic bottles in stoves that reliably shorten life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u106	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Sedláček, Mr Pelikán, to present his interpellation to Minister Pelikán. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u107	Dear Minister, there have been mention in the media of the reduction in the executive tariff under consideration. What leads the ministry to such reasoning, and how does the Executor's Chamber plead? Such reports appeared on the Czech Justice server, for example, in an interview with the Executive Chamber's president, where executives warn about the collapse of the enforcement system, and that there will be 5 million claims left on the state. So, in this context, I would like to ask at the same time what would be the impact of this step on enforcement recovery. Is it possible to expect any benefits at all, or is there any risk involved? Who would profit primarily from such a step? Have these considerations been consulted with the Executive Chamber itself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u108	I thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u109	Thank you. Madam President, the honourable Members who are here. Thank you for the question. The reasons are simple. We have already said, after the election, that we want to do something about the poverty trade, which has acquired incredible astronomical proportions in our country since about 2000, when - for your idea - before we came to this, the debt of a thousand crowns, such a common fine from the transport business, increased by 16,000 crowns in all proceedings until after execution. This, of course, led to people falling very quickly into debt traps and actually not paying off the debt that they once did, but paying off the debt recovery costs, often for the rest of their lives. [[16.30 hours]] We managed to adjust part of this matter almost two years ago, by changing the legal tariff, because the premium consists of a court fee, the lawyer's costs, the costs of execution. As far as the costs of the lawyer are concerned, we have moved from approximately 8,000 to approximately 1,500 crowns. The attorney's chamber threatened to stop paying their debts. No such thing happened, debts are paid further, they just started paying a little more fair. And now the other half of the story has come up, because now we're going to add to the thousand crowns in the beginning instead of 16 thousand 10,000, which we've already done, but we're still far enough away from Germany, where the thousand crowns at the beginning will be added to the two thousand. Well, that's what we're going to do now. We acted responsibly, which means, we know that we cannot do this at once, because it is necessary to straighten out the entire cost system so that even the creditor would participate in those costs if he had made a promise or provided his claim to someone who had no money, or acted irresponsiblely. That's something we have to do probably by law, so it's going to be a forceful reduction over time. But even now, after analyzing the cost and profitability of the executive authorities, which no one had done here before, and if they did, they did not draw any conclusions, so we concluded that there is room for a relatively strong reduction in the executive tariff while maintaining a decent profit on the part of the executives. We are still discussing this with the Executive Chamber, but we want to find peace if not, at least the calmest possible solution to this interphase. However, it is understandable that bailiffs don't want to have their money touched, just as they didn't want to be touched by lawyers, and it's as if no one wanted to touch them. So that's why it's a little wilder. But we are looking for a solution that will be responsible and which, and I stress, will certainly not jeopardise the recovery of liabilities, debts in our law. On the contrary, by really enforcing the debts, and not the cost of them, the enforcement will increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u110	Thank you. The Member will not ask an additional question. Now, to Mrs Adamová's microphone, I ask her to give her interpellation to Minister Marksová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u111	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to withdraw my intervention because the Minister is not here again. I have already downloaded it at the last meeting, and at that time I asked the President, which was therefore President Hamáček, to ensure a more regular and better participation of ministers. Unfortunately, it failed. So I won't waste my time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u112	Yes, thank you. I would now like to address Mr Karamazov's microphone to present his interpellation to Minister Jurečka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u113	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, your party has come to the Chamber of Deputies with a proposal to amend the Act on the Register of Contracts, when you propose to exempt Budějovický Budvar, which falls under your department. I commend this effort, though it should come sooner. I am glad that the Ministry of Agriculture has finally realised the risks of the Act on the Register of Contracts for State Business Entities and wants to address this issue. But what puzzles me, Minister, is how hard you stand to make the exception fall only on Budvar. Tell me how Budějovický Budvar, as a national enterprise, differs from the so-called state-owned company and where these companies differ from ordinary state-owned companies. You must want to conclude that, although the law uses a different name for each of these groups, in fact it is one and the same. They are business entities that operate in a competitive environment and which are owned by the State. Therefore, I see no reason for us to approve an exemption only for Budějovický Budvar and for the other state companies to get into trouble. I understand that Budvar falls under your department, and therefore you are most at heart. As Minister of Agriculture, however, you are a member of the Government of the Czech Republic, and therefore you should not only have the welfare of your resort, but also of the rest. I therefore ask you, Minister, whether you are aware of the fact that while you save your Budvar, you will destroy a number of other business entities owned by the state. I appeal to you to approach the issue of the register of contracts in a comprehensive and not narrow agricultural perspective. Let's face it, the contract register bill is wrong, and we need to change it. Not for one company, but for all those who do business and are owned by the state. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u114	I thank you, and now I give the floor to Mr Kučer, who is next in line to present his intervention to Minister Brabec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u115	Hello, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, the addition of Natura 2000, i.e. Porta Bohemica and the Nightingale Islands, results from our commitments to protect European nature. The government has repeatedly postponed the debate on the establishment of a national list of European sites, which has put the government in great danger not only to nature conservation, but also to our commitments and to the risk of drawing European subsidies on projects in the environment. I would like to ask you, Minister, why are you coming to the government meeting with two opinions proposing how to include Porta Bohemica in Natura 2000 and at the same time discussing points where you will not include Porta Bohemica in Natura 2000. Common sense says that the Minister of the Environment should present one material, one resolution, at the meeting of the Government, to supplement the Natura 2000 system. For other votes, it should be unambiguously against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u116	I thank you and ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u117	Thank you for asking. Madam President, this is an easy answer. Of course, the Minister of the Environment will be in favour of the addition, and I have repeatedly been in favour of adding both sites to the national list of so-called European major sites, but it is necessary to warn the government what will happen in both variants. And I consider that responsible for the government. The government, of course, is a collective body, it votes majority, it can overrule the Minister of the Environment, it has already happened, certainly not in history for the first time. However, it is the duty of each minister to describe both variants and all variants that are possible. In this case, there are really only two described by you: either to place the sites or not to place them. And I think that I have described very seriously in this material, which, after all, was available, what happens when - that is, what are the possibilities and legal, or what are the dangers for the Czech Republic resulting from the non-inclusion of these sites, what will very likely follow further steps from the European Commission's point of view and what needs to be done to meet these conditions. I am convinced that I filled it with this material, I said all pros and against both variants. Of course, in this case, I have repeatedly voted in favour of the inclusion of these sites. I also certainly showed more positives if these sites were to be listed. It is not a secret that the government's concern about the inclusion of these sites results from the belief that their inclusion in the list will automatically mean a stop sign for potential investment projects in these two locations. I am convinced that this is not the case, and that was said there too, but it is up to the government to decide what to do next. But believe me, from the point of view of the Ministry of the Environment and the Minister of the Environment, there can be no other way than to support and clearly argue for the inclusion of these sites on the list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u118	I thank you and now give the floor to Mr Kučer on the supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u119	Thank you. To vote for Minister Brabec, I would only present here a proposal for a government regulation amending the Government's regulation on the establishment of a national list of European sites. The Government has discussed the material submitted by the Minister for the Environment and adopted Resolution 73, stating that the Government's regulation will be adjusted according to the Government's observations, i.e. The proposed new European major sites of Porta Bohemica and Louky u Přelouče will not be announced, etc. 16 have voted in favour, including the Minister of the Environment, who voted against the publication of a new European major Porta Bohemica and Louka u Přelouče. Of course, I'm aware of that. There is a contradiction with what the Minister said, and I would like to ask the Minister how he will vote now on Monday at the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u120	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u121	And that's the classic other inaccuracies that then live their own lives. Because the vote, Mr colleague, by your means, Madam President, was really so that, at first, there was actually a vote on all the localities - because the site was actually a total of 53, to supplement. So I also voted in the proposal you are talking about for all the locations. For all locations, I point out. But then in the finals, I voted for the list, which contained 50 EVLs from the proposed 53. And it would be illogical not to vote for that list, virtually. to vote against the list. When the Czech Republic completes 50 of 53 locations there, the Minister of the Environment will not oppose it. That would be completely absurd. It was voted in two rounds. First, the controversial locations where I voted for their inclusion, but the rest of the government, respectively. the majority of ministers voted against their inclusion, and then, in the end, a global en bloc vote on all those locations where, of course, these three were no longer there, but I believe that you will recognise that it would be absurd if I voted against the amended list, which actually proposed another 50 sites in the EVL, so I would actually vote in favour of no locality being included. It's just for refills. But on your question, I will definitely vote consistently again for the inclusion of sites, because I am simply convinced that it is a clear fulfilment of the Czech Republic's obligations and that it is not in sharp contrast with the possibility of implementing investment projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u122	Thank you. And now I beg Mr Horáček's microphone to present his interpellation to the Minister of the Interior. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, in connection with some very controversial actions that have been taking place lately around the security of the Czech Post and especially its branches, I have been approached by many people, among others. employees of the Czech Post who, for obvious reasons, do not want to be appointed. As a result of the information found, which has struck me very hard, I would like to ask you a few questions. First of all, the reason why hundreds of mail offices from certified dispatches were disengaged in a chaotic way on 31 March 2016 and I would like to know if they are being guarded. Is it true that a company that does not meet the required standards is currently carrying out security monitoring of branches of Czech Post? Is it true that Česká pošta, s. p., a Česká pošta Security, a. s., bought an uncertified dispatch for post security without a tender? Can you confirm information about the case of a mass-fed robbery of mail and murder at an unprotected post office in Skřípov? And if I have the right information, this case has not yet been investigated. How is it possible that during the tender procedure the employees of Česká pošta, s. p., selected companies had already first informed about the award of the public contract and thus apparently committed a violation of the law? Nelastní: What is the real reason why postal workers and the entire public in the Czech Republic are exposed to the increased risk of the Czech Post Security activity, s. r. o., which, by the way, were you very critical of in the past? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u124	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u125	Madam President, honourable Members, the question of the security of the Czech Post and the company cooperating with the Czech Post in the area of security is longer than my memory reaches. I think it's been over 15 years. Currently activities related to the security of the Czech Post are the subject of investigations by the Police of the Czech Republic and some entities including the contractual partners of the Czech Post have been made aware of the accusations. This means not only legal persons but also natural persons who represent these companies. Czech Post Security has been purchased by my predecessors. It was purchased at a time when the idea that this company could be profitable. It was primarily assumed that this company would deal with transfers of cash at the time it was purchased. It was purchased at a time when transfers of money were in multiples or for transfers were paid in multiples of existing prices. This company is fully under the control of the Czech Post, so it is its company. You've been saying some information I can't confirm. Some information would probably also meet the characteristics of criminal offences, i.e. some machinations in a public tender or auction. The information you are talking about will be passed on to the Police of the Czech Republic to investigate the matter, because if the Czech Post really communicated the parameters of the competition to other competitors, or perhaps even should cooperate with them on the tender documentation of the competition itself, then it is necessary to investigate the matter. I think, therefore, that since the OOOZ, which is currently involved in the investigation of mail, has this information, but I will still communicate it after today's meeting. As far as certification is concerned, I was assured by mail management that the security monitoring via the security desk of the Czech Post Security meets all legal requirements, including relevant certifications. That's what I'm talking about. informed by the management of the Czech Post and the entire supervisory board of the company and according to my information the supervisory board of the company made sure that this is the case, i.e. that the certification of the system operated by the Czech Post Security is correct and is correct. On what you have said, fake ambushes and the particular case you have referred to, I have no choice but to ask you, my colleague, to be patient, through Madam President, and I will answer this question in writing after asking the Czech Post. I don't know about the particular mail case you were talking about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u126	Thank you and I ask the honourable Member if he wants to ask an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u127	Minister, thank you for your answer, thank you for your initiative. I really have information that the counter isn't certified, that part of it isn't certified, to be exact. So I'd like to ask you to check it out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u128	Thank you. I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u129	I will certainly do that, my colleague, through Madam President. I will do it myself, but I am addressing you through Madam President. I think within 14 days, I'd be able to send a position message to that thing. I am aware that many Members and Senators have come up with background material on this subject, which highlights some possible risks. Perhaps it will be best to resolve the overall report for all Members and Senators, with, of course, the priority of the topics that you wanted, which I will pierce specifically in the answer for you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u130	Thank you. Before I invite Mrs Pecková to the microphone, just a message to the members of the government that we are in intercessions, so you can turn directly to the Members. We're not in the debate. Just to make it a little easier. Now I'll ask the lady of the house.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u131	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, I am really very sorry that you cannot answer directly, because the Council of Europe will be meeting on Monday, where the subject of surrogacy is very resonating. It resonates enough that during the last committee meeting in Paris the police had to protect us from protestors from both camps. [[16.50 hours]] What's going on? Young woman e.g. After surgery, she is unable to have a normal pregnancy, and this is actually the role of a surrogate. Of course, this can be seen as a great advance in medicine, a miracle of medicine that allows barren couples to wait for their own desired biological child. On the other hand, of course, this raises many questions, especially ethical questions, and many ways to exploit this. Around the world, legislation is not uniform, even. The United States, the individual states of the United States, do not agree on legislation. In the Czech Republic it is up to this point that these procedures are going on sort of paralege, the Czech Republic does not have any legislation. There's no way I want to be here alone for permission or for prohibition, I just think that the absolute best prevention of any abuse is a good law. So I ask, Minister, if and when the Czech Republic will receive the legislation on surrogacy. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u132	Thank you, madam, and now I give the floor to Mrs Pěnčíková, who will interpel the Minister of Transport. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u133	Hello, thank you. Dear Minister, on 11 February of this year, I intervened with you in the charge case. bypass the town of Kroměříž. In your reply, you said: "It is, of course, linked to the requirement to increase the budget to the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, because here, according to the estimates we have, there would be a blackout. Because we can't just do it for Kroměříž, but we'd have to do it for all the cities where this situation is, so the blackout would be in the order of maybe hundreds of millions, and we have to find a deal for that. If we agree on that, I have no problem proposing it, but without the deal, it's complicated." So, based on your answer, I asked your colleague, the Minister of Finance, how he would react to the matter. He answered me in writing, and again I quote: "The Government of the Czech Republic, by resolution 188 of 9 March 2015, imposed, among other things, an electronic myth system preparation schedule after 2016. submit the concept of road charging to the Minister of Transport by 30 June 2016. The Ministry of Finance is prepared to discuss with the Ministry of Transport the possible implications of this decision in the budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure if, when preparing and discussing this concept, the issue of applying the exemption requirements to certain other sections of motorways will be addressed.' So, as I understand it, you're both prepared to act, but we're still not. And you prefer to step into that door first. Of course, I'm glad you're both ready, but I'd still rather you and your government colleague try to implement it. Therefore, I ask you: Will you take that first step towards the Ministry of Finance and try to deal with the problem with your colleague? And the second question: Will you include the issue of charging the Kroměříž bypass? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u134	Thank you, and I am now giving the floor to Mr Hovorka to present his intervention on the Minister of Health. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u135	Thank you for the floor. vážený Minister, according to the latest information, the Government of the Czech Republic will deal with the creation of a foundation to receive a gift from the Chinese company, which will subsequently build a pavilion of Chinese medicine on the premises of the Hradec Králové Faculty Hospital. It is known that you personally visited China several times and expressed an interest in starting treatment with methods of Chinese medicine in the Czech Republic. Can you please explain to me what makes your high confidence in the effectiveness of Chinese medicine and to support the import of medical methods, experiences and preparations into the Czech Republic? How will Chinese medicine improve health care for Czech citizens and how will there be a possible conflict between recognised treatment methods of the Czech Republic and Chinese treatment methods, which, according to our leading experts, are not among the medical methods based on evidence? Will the construction of a new pavilion, including equipment, be financed exclusively from Chinese sources, or is money also expected from Czech sources? And how will the treatment of patients be financed by Chinese treatment methods and the financing of medical and middle medical personnel in the pavilion of Chinese medicine? Will or won't they be employees of the Hradec Králové University Hospital? Will the Chinese Clinic be Czech or Chinese subject? I'd like another little amendment, to answer the question. At the beginning of this parliamentary term, there were some considerations about the need to regulate healers and healers. Isn't importing Chinese medicine and Chinese medicine a step to change the ministry's attitude toward healing? You know, in Chinese transplant medicine, I'm sorry. do the authorities taken from the Chinese political prisoners and generally opponents of the regime also benefit? How do you personally feel about that? Thank you for your attention and thank you for any reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u136	I thank the honourable Member, and I am now giving the floor to Mrs Němcová to present her intervention on the Minister Chovanec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u137	Thank you for the floor. I appeal to you, Minister, in connection with police intervention during a visit to the Chinese President in the Czech Republic. I know that there was a press conference today at which the police director explained or tried to explain that the police did nothing wrong and did everything right. I don't think so, even though I'm here to say that I don't want to question the role of the police and her hard task in securing this visit, but I don't want to cover up what happened under the carpet, and I don't want to do it. I don't mind, for example. what was happening around the film faculty, because it's impossible to say the way the police squirmed out of it, when they first said she had nothing to do with it, only under the weight of the evidence when the faculty presented video camera footage, so they admitted that someone was there, then they swerved about who was there and whether alone or at some order, and this was not explained enough at all. I object to this explanation today. Then I resent some strange obsession with the Tibetan flags, because I don't understand who advised the police to go to the apartment or the office or where it was, where on one side the blinds didn't mind the closed ones, the Tibetan flag was in the window. It bothered me about the faculty, because to enter academic land like this, please admit that there is an excess that hasn't been here since 1989. It bothers me the situation of a young student who, I don't know if she was mentioned at the press conference today, because I worked here and couldn't watch TV, a young student from Vinohrad, who was taken by the police for questioning, where he said she was going to slap him, before as a pretty serious criminal on the hood of the car just because he had some reservations about what was going on during the Chinese visit. So I would like to know your position on what was said today at the press conference, and particularly on these three things that I mentioned.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u138	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u139	Madam President, honourable Members, the press conference that was today has been very extensive and a large number of material, image material, photos, records and other things have been used. The police are admitting their abhorrentness to the FAMU. So it wasn't an intervention, there were two police officers who entered the academic grounds and asked questions that, in my opinion, they simply shouldn't have asked in the second round, or they should have ended up at the gate and they shouldn't have gone further towards the dean. That's where I think the police have erred, and the officers concerned have been identified, and they're being reprimanded. As for the other questions, an extraordinary meeting of the House is convened on Thursday. I have cancelled my participation in the meeting of the Interior Ministers in Luxembourg and will be here to answer the Members, the Chamber of Deputies, any questions. In the meantime, I would like all Members and Senators to receive a comprehensive material by Tuesday at the latest, which will be based on the press conference of the Police of the Czech Republic. The boy, who was supposed to be slapped by police officers in Vinohrady, can be found that the whole matter is in the investigation of the General Inspectorate of the Security Corps, and I have no further information on this than you do, i.e. I have the same information from the media. We're going to wait for the General Inspection to either initiate or initiate operations towards the police officers concerned, and I assume that colleagues from the General Inspection are aware that this case needs to be dealt with with with with all seriousness and with all determination and commitment. [[17,00 hours]] As far as the scan of Tibetan flags is concerned. According to the way I spoke to the police president yesterday, they claim that the four or five cases that have been reported are capable of proving and proving why this was happening. It's under discussion at the press conference today. I'm sure we'll get back to that in detail on Thursday at an emergency meeting where I'd like to discuss every case here individually, go back to it and say our position, including photo documentation. From the information I have, the only criminal proceedings are conducted for offense, towards a Chinese citizen who was just about to take the Tibetan flag against a Chinese protester. So that's the only prosecution the police have launched from all those Číňan towards the Tibetan flags, and that's exactly because they took the Tibetan flag from the anti-Chinese activist. From my point of view, it's still the same. I am convinced that the police did not fail, that the measures were very extensive. You could record similar measures when visiting the politicians of the United States, Russia and others, i.e. the measures were similarly extensive. And on that Thursday, I would like us to return to history when we visit the Secretary of State of the United States, President Obama and other politicians, what those measures were, what extent they were. And you will see for yourself that the measures and closures were very similar, and I would even say that in some cases they were even more extensive in the past. My conclusion. The police as a whole didn't fail. I want to thank the police for the work she's done. There were over a thousand police officers on the streets every day. We live in a time of security risk, at the time of the assassination in France and Brussels, and I am convinced that the Czech Republic was one of the safest places in the world and one of the safest cities at the time. Any excess that may still be detected needs to be explained. If a specific culprit is found, it needs to be marked and punished. On the other hand, it really needs to be said that the police need to be thanked from my point of view. I don't want to sweep under the rug any of the cases you've been talking about, but please note that the fact that the police or their excesses do not work badly or try to turn the police against their own nation means that every single particular police officer applies to himself. I would ask very much that we be careful in these terms. That's not coming your way, colleague. Of course you didn't, I don't mean to say you didn't. But I'm really asking that we always give the police a chance to explain things. Today, the police President has tried very well, from my point of view, and I want to continue this on Thursday at a meeting here with you until all the questions are answered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u140	Thank you. The honourable Member will ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u141	Well, I respect the fact that we're still having this conversation, and I welcome it. It means that you will confirm the agenda for the meeting and we will be able to perform in it. That's good news for me. The second thing I want to say is that I'm not questioning the role of the police. I understand how difficult this is. On the other hand, it is our job to draw attention to what is not right. And I think that is what we as Members are supposed to say. You as a government are responsible to us, and we have to ask these questions. I hope because I'm asking, I don't end up like that student from Vinohrady. Then I would like to ask you to prepare for the extraordinary meeting, so I would very much like you to participate in the role of the Chinese Embassy in Prague, because there are testimony that the Chinese Embassy has instructed various groups of people, created some ten-member groups, put some commanders in their leadership. According to the testimony, they were tasked in the case of demonstrators or those carrying the flag of Tibet to scream, not to be afraid to lay a hand on them, as far as possible not to hurt them. [[The President draws attention to the time]] So I would also like to clarify this role.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u142	Thank you, and I'll ask the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u143	Madam, I think that, as with every citizen of the Czech Republic, the police will treat you with respect and certainly there is no danger of you being afraid to express your opinion in this country and in 2016 because someone would slap you. I really see that as being far-fetched. I'm really asking for one thing. I witnessed a young man saying recently that I had been beaten up by Rom people, holding demonstrations to support him, to find out after six months that it wasn't true at all. I witnessed a month ago when I read on the Prorussian website how police officers put on masks and went out in the streets of Prague to stir up violence with left-wing activists so that left-wing activists themselves would say two days later that they were football fans. I'm asking very much for one thing, and that's restraint. I think we all need cops to be willing and able to fight for this state of crime to feel the elementary support of this state. This does not mean, however, that each such one who doubts will be punished. [[Isn't it?]] That's what you've set up in the past, the General Inspectorate of Security Resources, and I'm the last person who wants to contradict her actions. So we're definitely gonna talk about this thing. I promise you here, by Tuesday at the latest, you'll have a comprehensive report on the whole thing, including photo documentation. And I have personally apologized to the dean for the insubordination of police officers who, when they go to school to ask if strangers have entered, are to ask that question at the latest at the gate, do not go to higher levels and do not unnecessarily harass their activities on academic grounds. That's the clumsyness we apologized for. And that's where I stand for the fact that the police didn't make any mistakes, and neither does the police president.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u144	Thank you. And now I give the floor to Mr Kalousek to present his interpellation to the Minister of the Interior. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, on 29 March, a peaceful demonstration was convened in Hradčanská náměstí, duly announced and authorized by the Magistrate in order to protect human rights in China, namely Tibet. After arriving at the site, the protesters learned that the arrival at Hradčanská náměstí is blocked and that the security risk that someone has assessed has been overturned into a transport engineering measure under the Law on the Police of the Czech Republic and the Police of the Czech Republic has closed the Hradčanská náměstí, thereby limiting the rights of citizens of the Czech Republic. I would like to ask you very much if you could tell us what particular risk - not that there was one and somebody has evaluated it - but what particular security risk was found so serious that the constitutional right of assembly had to be suppressed because of it. Who specifically decided that. And I would just like to remind you that when President Obama and many other important visitors were here, the Hradčany Square was, of course, not closed. So it must have been some really special risk. And if, today at the press conference, the police president said that it was no longer up to date at that time, because the callers had determined a different place, it was a completely conscious lie. The callers didn't find a replacement spot, they only moved the parade there the moment the police told them they wouldn't let them go to the place the Magistrate allowed them to go. So I'm asking for these answers, Minister, and please make them very specific. Not that somebody's on the committee. Who specifically decided what risk, who evaluated it and why.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u146	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u147	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, if you don't mind, I will read the chronology of the public domain. 19 days. 2. 2016 announces the meeting at Hradčany Square, Mrs. Kateřina K., for the period from 27 to 29. 3. from midnight to 24 hours each of these days, with the purpose of a peaceful assembly to express its opposition to human rights violations in China and Tibet. On 22nd, a few days later, the same applicant announces the same meeting on 28th to 30th. 3. [[17.10 hours]] 22 days. 3. Mr Tomáš . announces the holding of meetings in the same area for days 29. 3. between 17 and 18.30 due to a peaceful assembly in defence of democracy and human rights violations of the People's Republic of China in relation to Tibet and Taiwan. As the persons empowered to act for him, he identifies Mr Bursík and his wife. 29th day. 3. the same caller announced a change of venue. These are officially traceable documents. That means, once again, 29. 3. this caller was to change the venue from Hradčanský náměstí to another place. Whoever's evaluating the security risks, it's being evaluated by the task force that has the commander. And the commander of the intervention will decide on the measures to be taken in the course of these visits. For example, I spoke to Mr Duka, who told me at a meeting at the Prague Castle that when President Obama was here, for example, the measures in relation to the Prague Castle and the church's property were much more stringent. For example, at that time church dignitaries could not go to their apartments for one or two days. The meetings that are being held and the security measures are being evaluated on the spot according to the information available to the police. Let me remind you of some of the security measures from the past. Security measures at the IMF meeting in September 2000: Congress Centre, Exhibition Centre in Holešovice and others were closed. Security measures at the Forum 2000 held in September 2000: The vicinity of Žofín Palace was closed, there was just the participation of the Dalai Lama. This was followed by complaints from mothers with children that they could not use children's playground and park. Security measures during the visit of Secretary of State Condoleezza Riceová on 8 and 9. 6. 2008, Hradčany Square and Kramář's Villa were similarly regimed. Security measures during Barack Obama's visit in April 2009 were controlled by security measures to enter the Congress Centre area. Security measures in the framework of the START Obama-Medvedev project in 2010, the entry to Hradčanská náměstí was re-modulated, this time the Police of the Czech Republic, just at the request of President Obama, took advantage of the authorisation under the provisions of Section 49 of the Law on Police, the security of protected persons, and took advantage of the so-called. security frames to ensure that persons are not armed and may enter the protected area. Then, last but not least, it was the Eastern Partnership Security Summit on 24 and 25 April 2014 in Prague, when the Hradčanské náměstí was regimed again. All I want to say is that these measures were not unique during the visit of the Chinese President. On Thursday, I suppose, we'll have a debate on that. By Tuesday, dear colleague, I want to send out a message that will also cover Hradčany Square in detail. And we're in a small dispute here, because according to the information I have, the really caller of this meeting has decided to change place and change 29. 3. I hope there's a written or other document about this, or another record, so I can give it to you here, so we can clear up the little collision here in our opinions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u148	Thank you. The Member will ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u149	Thank you. Maybe it wasn't a conflict of opinion, but when they told them they wouldn't let them in at four o'clock, they just needed to move somewhere. But let's not play dumb with each other here on Thursday, Minister. The regime measure on Hradčany Square, when President Obama was here, I remember because I welcomed President Obama in the courtyard behind Matthias' gate. And the entire Hradčany square was full of tourists. There may have been some security measures, but certainly not that there were cops in the streets and no one let anyone in the Hradčany Square unless Mr. Mynář told him to. As one of your people told me: "If Mr Mynář had allowed you to do so, we would have let you go to Hradčany Square. Because he wouldn't let you..." I don't know who's in charge of your police. I think we all know that today. You suffer from this and reduce the trust of the Police of the Czech Republic in the eyes of the public, which is a great pity, because the police do not deserve it. And I think we're gonna take a look at this on Thursday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u150	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u151	My colleague, I am certainly ready for this debate. You and I were living at a time when we were going to ask what the Rus had to say. I don't want to live in a world where we're going to ask what the Číňan have to say or what Mr. Mynář has to say. Mr Mynář has a role to play, but it's not a role to run the police. And he doesn't even run the president's security service. I, honourable Members, would not like to see what happened during the visit of any statesman to President Obama, that one of the observers would caress his face. We're in a completely different security situation. The world has changed dramatically. And we can't afford to let people approach statesmen and caress them when the bombs explode in Brussels and Paris. Back then, it looked beautiful, beautiful, but when a person comes with hostile intentions, it's simply impossible to avoid these security threats. I'm ready for the debate. I am absolutely convinced that this police is serving the Czech Republic and its people. And it cannot serve either the hrad or Chovanc or anyone in this Chamber of Deputies, but the people in this country and this state. That's the kind of police I think we have. And I am absolutely convinced that whoever runs the Police of the Czech Republic is named Tomáš Tuhý.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u152	Thank you and I am now giving the floor to Mr Oklešťek, who will lecture on Minister Brabec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u153	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Dear Minister, last week I noted your negotiations with the Government in Poland on the subject of worrying information coming from the Liberec Region regarding the threat of total water loss in Liberec, as a result of widespread extraction at the Polish mine Turów. Due to the ongoing mining of brown coal at the border, people in Liberec have long faced problems related mainly to groundwater loss, surface water pollution, and impaired diffuse conditions. In April 2015, the Czech Republic was informed of another planned expansion of mining at the Turów mine. For the Czech Republic, it clearly means that its water is at risk. And not only water, but also the quality of people's lives in Liberec, due to the deterioration of the air. So what did you discuss in Poland? What are you going to do to avoid the fatal damage that we read, hear, and that, according to information, will be up to CZK four billion in the media? Do we have any international legal tools to defend ourselves against the expansion of mining? How will the Ministry of Environment ever proceed towards Poland? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u154	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u155	Thank you for the question, my colleague. I now know that I do not have to address you through Madam President, and that will make it easier. These negotiations have been very intensive in recent weeks and have been completed by negotiations within intergovernmental Czech-Polish consultations, where we have succeeded in the topic of the Turów mine and its impact on groundwater in Frýdlantska, Hrádek nad Nisou and other areas to get to the highest level, let's say, as a topic of the premieres of both countries, which I consider to be a great success. And very briefly. Yes, it is true that the real expansion of the Turów mine, which the Polák are planning very likely, i.e. with a probability of playing with certainty, can affect, negatively affect the supply of groundwater for tens of thousands of people in Hrádek nad Nisou and other villages in the border areas. The danger is completely real, it is not just a hypothesis, because it has already happened really in recent years, because coal has been mined for decades at the Turów mine and negative influence has been recorded there in the past, when the water in the territory of the Czech Republic has fallen in the border area by up to tens of meters. First of all, we, the Polish party, I at the level of environmental ministers, have repeatedly held negotiations, and now we have clearly told the Polish party that it is an unacceptable option for the Czech Republic that, first, such a threat would occur. Secondly, the Czech Republic would have to bear any compensatory costs. It should be pointed out, however, that if the threat were to occur in the process of extraction, the compensation would actually cost at least the amount you mentioned. So today we're talking about two, three or more billion crowns. But more importantly, a time factor plays a huge role. Because providing alternative sources of drinking water would mean a rather complex technical action, i.e. bringing water from the dams in the Jizera Mountains to a relatively long distance. It's a task that would last up to ten years. [[17.20 hours]] So now the primary objective is to ensure such technical measures in the case of the extraction process that can be expected in the coming years to avoid this threat. This is what the working group came together this week, when the experts of both parties first exchanged a whole range of information that the Czech Republic has requested over the long term and did not always receive to the extent that we wanted. Now we should have them so that we can successfully comment on the EIA documentation of the interstate, which the Polish side will produce for enlargement. It should be available at the turn of this year and next year. Technically, we will want to ensure that measures are taken to minimise the risk of water damage. The Czech Republic also has certain legal instruments at its disposal. Intergovernmental agreements are concluded. Agreements are now being concluded in the area of cooperation in the field of water. There is also a European Water Directive that allows application to such cases. So there are legal instruments, but that's the last one. Under our pressure today, the Polish Party clearly claims its responsibility and even at the highest level declares that it is unacceptable for Czech-Polish relations to be damaged by the fact that tens of thousands of people could lose water in real terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u156	Thank you. The Member is satisfied with the answer, so I will ask another one in order. That should be Mr Radim Fiala, but I do not see him in the hall, so his interpellation is failing. I shall now give the floor to Mr Ondráček, Mr Ondráček, to present his interpellation to Minister Pelikán. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Madam Secretary, at the beginning of March of this year, I gave you a written interview on overtime unpaid hours at the Prison Service. At the end of the month, you answered me with the fact that you know about the problem, the matter is in the solution. And you admit that similar problems like those of the Prison Service in Pilsen Prison in Borech may occur in other prisons, and you assure me that the Justice Department will monitor how the rights of the members are respected. It would be nice if there were no minutes of the meeting of the Coordination Committee of the Trade Union Organisations of the Prison Services, which took place on 21 March of this year, where 150 hours of overtime is back three years, which allows the Civil Code, to state that, on the basis of the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, the requests of members will not be accepted, the applicant will appeal to the Directorate-General for a rejected request if he receives a negative opinion, he will have to sue for the reimbursement of the hours. This means that you know that in the Prison Service, you ordered many members to work overtime in violation of the law, but you do not intend to deal with it. So, question. For what reason does the Ministry of Justice ignore the Supreme Administrative Court's finding, and how will you really address the legitimate claims of the Prison Service members? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u158	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u159	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members, the Ministry of Justice takes care of the finding of the Supreme Administrative Court. However, the situation is not quite simple, because even the finding of the Supreme Administrative Court, as is normal in the case of the judicature, does not solve all possible situations and they are actually very different, each has to be assessed individually. It is about what is and what is not the important unforeseen interest of the service, in which it is therefore possible to order overtime within the limit of 150 hours. The Supreme Administrative Court said it mustn't be planned in advance. But now we don't know exactly what that means. What if a member gets sick? Can we call someone else? What if he falls out for some other reason? What if it needs to be strengthened? And so on and so forth. So cases need to be taken one by one, because unfortunately, even the wardens of the prisons had approached overtime in various cases before. And that's what the Prison Service has so far held with our knowledge as an opinion. It means, it's taken separately, it's reviewed, it's granted, something doesn't work out. What doesn't work, we assume an administrative action will be filed. This will solve other issues that remain in the administrative justice system. And the moment we have the entire battery covered, then we'll be happy to expand it to other cases. But at this point, we do not dare to make such a far-reaching conclusion that we would suddenly make a relatively large sum out of public funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u160	Thank you. The Member will ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u161	Thank you. Minister, this is not a single decision, because if you look at the case law, or into those decisions that concern the Police of the Czech Republic, you will already see that the decision is in order around ten, maybe twelve. So there is no need to seek that a member of the Prison Service is anything other than a member of the Police of the Czech Republic. He is a member of the Act 361, so you do not have to click on it and look for what is important interest in the service with a member of the Prison Service and what is important interest with a member of the Police of the Czech Republic. I think that's pretty much given. I think I'm going to ask you in a while how many cases you've assessed and how many cases you've complied with. To me, it seems pointless to burden the courts with administrative lawsuits when you could evaluate it and pay the members back what they just really deserve, because they served those hours. So look for a way to sort this out in the future. And I think there's a lot of trouble with the prison service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u162	Thank you and please the Minister. He won't react. I will now ask Mrs Putnová to give her interview to the Minister of Education. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u163	Good afternoon. Madam President, Madam Minister, with the newly announced OP VVV programmes, the special priority axis 2, which is focused on universities, has turned to me by a university that is concerned that it will not be able to meet the necessary indicators because it believes that some indicators go against the strategy and long-term intention of its university. The point is that in the past, we have tried to reduce the number of study disciplines and focus on quality, or move individual fields of study into programs. Indicators that are in this priority axis are based, for example, on the number of newly created accredited study programmes in the Czech language, the number of newly created study programmes taught in cooperation with another university, the number of new bachelor studies focused on practice, the number of new courses focused on practice, the number of new study programmes total. So my question is how to deal with such requirements of the faculty, which are accredited by 2019 and their current strategic intention is to reduce the number of study fields and programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u164	Thank you, and I ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u165	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members, I will try to be as brief as possible with the fact that, of course, I will give the lady an even more detailed explanation. To put it simply, it is not necessary to worry that different concepts of study or study programme would subsequently cause problems for beneficiaries in practice. This means how will project investigators report programs and disciplines in the indicators due to the new college law? The answer is that it is necessary to proceed in relation to current legislation and setting of the OP VVV indicator system. If necessary, which will arise on the basis of a change in current legislation - here the amendment of higher law and subsequent regulations is meant - there will also be changes by the managing authority, i.e. the Ministry of Education, in the way of reporting indicators focused on programmes and disciplines. The term of study in quotation marks will expire and we will continue to talk only about study programmes. OP VVV, I can assure you, will open negotiations with the Ministry of Regional Development in April 2016 regarding the modification of indicators and their definition in the national code list of indicators. Following the adaptation in the national code list of indicators, the call text, including the relevant documentation, will be updated so that it is understandable to the beneficiary. Therefore, we believe that this change will not affect the investigators of the OP VVV project. The study programmes and their reporting will remain unchanged. The fields of study will be further called programmes with all conditions in relation to reporting indicators previously related to the fields of study. I hope that this has been sufficiently understandable and, of course, I will also give a more detailed written justification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u166	Madam, I'm asking if you want to put down... You don't want to. So, please, next in line, and that is Mr Grospič. Sorry. I'm sorry. Mr Novotný, to present his... He's not here. Therefore, his interpellation is failing. I ask Mr Grospič to present his intervention on the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u167	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present an interview concerning religious restitution, namely a situation in which an increasing number of municipalities are beginning to find themselves, where churches, particularly the Roman Catholic Church, make their demands that municipalities be mandatory and restitution and return to them the property to which this church makes its property. I address the Minister with the fact that the Ministry of Culture itself has written in its pages in answers and questions in order to solve this problem: the municipalities do not have to be afraid of returning property to the churches. However, the opposite and a number of litigations are a reality. I would therefore like to know how he feels about this issue and how he wants to proceed in this way. The second part of my question is how he himself views the statement of Cardinal Duka, which he made in the Questions of Václav Moravec, when he himself challenged the Act 412/2012, which states that the churches should be restitution of assets movable and immovable in value of 75 billion and financial compensation in the sense of 59 billion, because the Law 218/1949 was actually paid out of the state budget, and therefore the property damage was not caused to them in particular, thereby opening up the polemic box that we, as a Communist party, argued that it was not even February 1948, but that it was a long-term dispute between the Catholic Church on the return of property, which came from the time of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy and dragged through the period of the first Czechoslovak Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u168	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u169	Thank you. Madam President, fellow Members, thank you for this question. Here it must be said that the parametric adjustment of the property compensation, i.e. the mitigation of certain damages, is defined by Law No. 428/2012 Sb. and related contracts between the Czech Republic and individual churches, respectively. religious societies. This means that this law clearly defines who persons are entitled, who persons are obliged, and outside the diction of this law it is not possible to proceed. If there are any cases of dispute, then, of course, it is up to the independent courts to assess this matter if it reaches them. But that law clearly limits the limits, the limits in which the mitigation of property injustices caused by the Communist regime is taking place. And as for the second question, I must say that I am only informed by the media, mediated because I have not seen the report directly, virtually. Václav Moravka's questions, where Cardinal Duka performed. But basically, I can say that we have to move again in the boundaries defined by this law of 428/2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u170	Thank you. The Member will ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u171	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Of course, I thank the Minister for responding to my question. I would just like to point out that the first wave of restitution took place in the early 1990's, as amended by the so-called reckonings, and by then almost 2,500 buildings have been reconstructed, i.e. from this point of view, the property settlement with churches and religious societies has already taken place in the early 1990's. And this fact of the reality of the actions against individual municipalities and the hovering of these requirements is constantly increasing at present. I think that the Ministry of Culture as a gessional ministry on this issue and, in turn, the whole government should seriously address this issue and not underestimate it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u172	Thank you, and I'll ask the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u173	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Of course, the Ministry of Culture is very responsible for this issue within its competences. I have to repeat what I've said twice before. Law 428/2012 clearly defines the scope of application of the restitution law, i.e. the Act on the mitigation of certain property injustices. And so I have to say a certain wonder that the Communist Party in this way is interested in how the churches themselves stand up to their property, because it was the Communist Party that caused its policy of total disruption of property conditions in Czechoslovakia after 1948 a problem that we are dealing with today. So, on the one hand, the Communist Party before those - now I can't count so quickly - 65 years roughly, or as much as it was, took the property away from the churches as well as the rest of the society's forces, and today it has an interest in once again to problemize this mitigation of injustice. So it's obvious that the communist mentality hasn't really changed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u174	Thank you and I now give the floor to Mrs Golasowská to present her interpellation to Minister Mládek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u175	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I submit an interview to the Minister of Industry and Trade on imports of Chinese steel and the associated risk of unemployment in metallurgical plants. On 3 March, I intersected you on imports of Chinese steel. Unfortunately, you only answered one of my three questions, and the other two remained without a specific answer. Therefore, Minister, I ask you again: How does the Czech Republic use available EU investment and support resources to maintain employment, innovation and the development of industrial production in sectors and regions affected or potentially threatened by the steel crisis? There are a number of tools that help adapt to the development of the industrial environment. The question is, how much are they used in our country? [[17.40 hours]] And another question. If the steel industry in the Czech Republic is destroyed, how is the Ministry prepared for the huge unemployment, which is specifically created in the Moravian-Silesian region that feeds the industry? Thank you for answering my questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u176	Thank you. And now I give the floor to Mr Bendl, who will speak to the Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u177	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, I would first like to say hello to the absent Minister of Agriculture, who is not too much involved in the Chamber of Deputies, Zambia and Tanzania, where he went instead of working in the Chamber of Deputies. At least that's how I'm going to interpel the Minister. I hope he answers in 30 days. The Ministry of Agriculture actively commented on a decree that was processed by the Ministry of the Environment concerning the possibility of using sludge from sewage treatment plants. As you know, Minister, the quality of our soil suffers from the fact that biowaste does not generally return to the soil and that it would be good for us to make the most of our return to the soil. The decree was prepared from March last year to April this year, and farmers expected, in particular, from the Ministry of Agriculture, that its resulting position would be such that it would allow the use of sludge and their return, the return of organic matter back to the soil. The European Union does not order us in this respect, it is quite benevolent and does not address the microbiology of sludge in its directives. However, since 2001, we have had microbiological limits that limit the use of sludge in soil, but this decree, which has finally come out or is due to come out, says that we are stricter than in the European Union. [[Time warning]] I want to ask you why the Ministry of Agriculture has not taken advantage of this opportunity and whether you have opposed stricter rules than the European Union is imposing on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u178	Thank you. And now I give the floor to Mr Hovorka, who will interpel the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u179	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister, I have received an answer for my intervention, which is dated March 30th. It says here. I finally got some answers to my questions about medical registers. You write: data on all patient records will not be sent anywhere. This is by permission of absolute untruth. The newly established register will only collect data on reported health services. No association of work, social and other medical history with clinical data will take place and will not take place. This data is not simply collected in NZIS. If you read properly, Minister, and the man who prepared your answer, paragraph 70. 2, its second part, you can see that they are kept for the processing of personal data in the National Health Information System without the consent of the data subject, unless further specified otherwise, data relating to its medical condition in relation to the disease and its treatment, in particular data on sociodemographic, diagnostic, personal, family and working history of the patient related to the disease, including an assessment of his current state of health, data on the provision of health services to the patient, information on the performance of the profession or occupation, or on the performance of the service. So that's exactly how it's described in the law, and you're obviously not clear about what's in the law. It also says that the status of the administrator is very well defined. On this point, I say that the opinion of the Parliamentary Institute states that it is not well defined, only it is written that the Ministry establishes the Institute of Health Information and Statistics, hereinafter referred to as the Statistical Institute, as an organisational component of the State to carry out its tasks in the field of ensuring a national health information system under this Act and the Statistical Service Act. [[Time warning]] The Statistical Institute is the administrator of the national health information system. But that's not the definition, it's not the anchoring of the exact administrator and its competences, it's just not here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u180	Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry, but time needs to be kept, because there are others in line after you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u181	Yes. So I would like to ask for accurate information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u182	I thank you, and now I give the floor to Mrs Golasowská to present her interpellation to Mrs Marksová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u183	Thank you for the floor. I submit an interview on the employment of persons kept in the register of the employment office. As of 31 March 2016, 443 109 unemployed persons are registered in the Labour Office and there are more than 117 000 jobs on the labour market. Of the more than 400,000 unemployed, there are many who do not want to go to work. Life on welfare suits them, and there have been many years without work. The exception is not those who combine income from social benefits with income from the black or grey economy. Another group is made up of those who do not take work because of health restrictions, but if they find work according to their expectations, suddenly they have no health restrictions. Madam Secretary, I am presenting these questions to you. One: Is the MPSV preparing any measures against the abuse of social benefits in long-term unemployed people who avoid working in the case of a job offer? Two: Why do the unemployed not fill the vacant posts? We would not have to fill the vacancies with foreign workers, such as Bulgaria or Ukraine. And three: Does the MPSV realise that we are extending the retirement age, and we have unused labour at the employment office? If so, how is the MPSV going to address this situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u184	Thank you. And now, to Mr Bendl's microphone, I ask him to give his interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u185	Thank you. So once again, greetings to Zambia and Tanzania to the Minister of Agriculture. And I ask for an answer to the question concerning the announced programme under the Rural Development Programme, the 831 programme, the rules on preventive measures in the forests. This programme is declared for those who manage more than 500 hectares of forest, with the preferences of those who farm in special destination forests and manage, for example, fields or pheasants and the like. The program is intended for reconstruction and construction of retention tanks. That looks really nice on the outside. However, it seems to concern perhaps two or three applicants, and the whole issue seems to be rather tailored to several individual applicants.It is about 5 million investment per project. Crowns. And an individual applicant may apply for a maximum of 70 million. CZK, which is 100% subsidy, which is not very common. So I would like to ask you, Minister, if you are aware that applicants may be at the maximum number of five, that there will probably be no more. First of all. And secondly, I want to ask you whether you will also write programs that would allow municipalities and cities to achieve 100% of the subsidy in the case of reconstruction or construction of new retention tanks, and when it will be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u186	I thank you, and now I ask Mr Kučera's microphone to present his interpellation to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u187	Hello, thank you for your word. Unfortunately, the Home Secretary has already gone somewhere, so I'll read it more or less. Dear Minister, I warned you in December 2014 and asked you to resolve the situation at the branches of the Czech Post in the Ústí Region, especially at the bad organization of the work of the Czech Post, where there are long queues at the branches of one window, where people are waiting in the same endless queue for payment of social benefits, for non-delivery shipments or for example for sending a recommended letter. As an example, I chose the post office in the district town of Louny, but the situation is similar in other cities of the Ústí Region, especially the post office in our regional town of Ústí nad Labem, but also in Lovosice, Teplice and other cities. Branches are not enough to provide a level of service and often offer a relatively undignified environment for waiting clients. At the same time, I drew your attention to a specific and very typical problem. For example, I mentioned the town of Louna for all the cities, but as I said before, it is a problem for the entire region. The level of service provision and, above all, their availability is very limited. The branch has a very bad attitude for people with disabilities. And here is an example, but the situation is similar, as I said before, at more branches of the Czech Post. Dear Minister, you promised me a solution in December 2014. However, the situation has in no way improved, but on the contrary. Your promise, Minister Chovanč, has proved to be nothing but idle. What's the mistake, Minister? In the management of your ministry or in the management of the Czech Post? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u188	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Putnová to present her interpelation to the Vice-President of the Government, Pavel Bělobrádek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u189	Good afternoon again. My question to Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek relates to the financing of science and research for 2017 and 2018. We expected that, with increasing GDP, there would also be an increase in the amount of funds that would go into science and research. Unfortunately, this has not been demonstrated, because in 2016 the share of national support for science and research was 0.63% of GDP, when it was 0.66% in 2015. I'm referring to national resources because I consider it correct. National resources have always been mentioned in order to make a clear comparison. The reference report repeats and recapitulates a number of principles according to which the budget was prepared, but does not comment or evaluate the requirements of individual resorts. There is also no adequate factual justification in the draft budget for the proposal just requested. In fact, we're being presented to believe that it will be agreed with the resorts. With regard to 2018, the budget for 2018 is estimated to be around 270 million. CZK for institutions and programmes in the Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ministry of Transport. This means that these resorts will again provide support for research and the number of chapters will increase from 11 to 15. Is that supposed to be a reduction in the fragmentation that, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Whitebread, you like and often talk about?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u190	Thank you, and I am now giving the floor to Mr Holečka to present his intervention on the Minister of Culture. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u191	Dear Minister, I am interrogating you on the entry of the Mining Cultural Landscape of Krušnohoří into the UNESCO list. I have been following this project since its beginning because I helped as an interpreter during the first meetings and I care a lot about it. I read from the media that this request is being withdrawn and is intended for processing. I would therefore like to ask what complications led the Czech party to withdraw this request, and therefore to postpone further assessment until February next year. I would like to ask you, as a Member of the Ústí Region, that the Czech Party correct all the comments on the request and that Krušnohoří will have a chance to get on the UNESCO list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u192	I thank you and ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u193	Madam President, honourable Member, colleagues, on the project of the joint transnational Czech-German nomination of the Mining Cultural Landscape Erzgebirge/Krušnohoří, which was initiated by the German party, namely Saxony, has been working since 2011. Not only the state authorities of both countries are involved in the preparation of nominations, but also the conservation authorities of both countries, the regions concerned, the leading experts and the citizens and communities themselves in this area. Since the first steps of preparation of the project it has been established that Germany will be the coordinator of the joint nomination, from whose quota the nomination will be submitted, which is logical due to the scope of the nominated German and Czech territory. Ministers of Saxony and the Czech Republic responsible for cultural heritage signed a memorandum on cooperation in 2014 which both parties confirmed their readiness and willingness to cooperate further in the protection, care and presentation of the Mining Cultural Landscape Erzgebirge/Krušnohoří. The nomination itself was submitted to the UNESCO World Heritage Center through the German Party as a gesturer in due time in January 2014. In autumn 2015, an evaluation mission was carried out by ICOMOS, which was attended by representatives of the two Member States. The official report by ICOMOS of January of this year revealed that nominations in the current form cannot be recommended for entry on the World Heritage List. The exceptional world value of the proposed farm is not called into question, but too different approach in the concept of nomination on the Czech and German sides, with the fact that the Czech part better corresponds to the character of the cultural landscape. The German party immediately started preparing, in cooperation with the Czech party, the initial revision of the nomination of the German part and the related texts of the joint section of the nomination, when another informal meeting took place in February this year with representatives of the ICOMOS panel, which continued to insist on its recommendations. For these reasons and in agreement with the Ministry of Culture of the Czech Republic, the German party withdrew the nomination from the UNESCO World Heritage Center for this year. Both parties immediately initiated the overall revision of the nomination within the meaning of the ICOMOS recommendation. The aim is to submit the revised nomination documentation of the World Heritage Centre for a new assessment at the earliest possible official date, i.e. by 1 February 2017. The German and Czech parties have experience of previous years with partial modifications of their proposals according to the recommendations of ICOMOS, when many of these revised nominations have subsequently become a world heritage. For these reasons too, the position of both states on this project is constant and current adjustments must be considered as a standard part of the nomination process. The Ministry of Culture of the Czech Republic confirmed that it would continue to support the joint German-Czech nomination project for the World Heritage List due to the real hopes of success. Both ministries see an excellent example of good neighbourly cooperation in the nomination project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-012-231.u194	Thank you. The Member does not want to ask an additional question, so I am done with the interpellation today, because the last interpellation can be presented in accordance with the Rules of Procedure at 17.55. Before I interrupt the meeting, allow me to read the apology of Minister Chovanec, who apologizes from today's meeting from 17.45 to the end of the day. At this point, I am interrupting the current meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until 9 a.m. tomorrow, when we will continue under the approved programme by firmly assigned points. This is point 153, Senate proposal, sales time, third reading, point 154, support for research, also third reading, point 161, law on the SAO at third reading, and then other points. Thank you for your cooperation and have a nice evening.
