ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u1	139. Proposal by Members of Jan Birk and Roman Sklenák to issue a law amending Act No. 13/1997 Coll., on the Road, as amended /German press 888/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. We received the Government's position as House Press 888/1. prosit refer to Mr Jan Birke as the appellant. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u2	Thank you, sir. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, colleagues. Let me introduce you to the draft amendment to Act No. 13/1997 Coll., on the Road, as amended, which was countersigned with me by my colleague Sklenák. The aim of the proposed amendment to the Act is to allow for the transfer to the regions on the basis of public contracts pursuant to the provisions of Section 159 and subsequently Act No.500/2004 Coll., the Administrative Code, as amended, of partial activities related to the management of first-class roads, without the full transfer of the administration of these roads from the State as their owner. The proposed amendment amends the existing legislation contained in § 9 para. However, it does not allow the regions to entrust only certain activities related to maintenance and repair of the road concerned to certain regions under a public contract. The current legislation in force in this respect does not correspond to the concept of the Ministry of Transport and the Directorate of Roads and Motorways and it is not desirable from individual regions, as the full transfer of the first class road administration with related obligations would impose a disproportionate burden on the regions. The current wording of Paragraph 9 (2) (a) is replaced by the following: As a first-class road owner, the Road Act does not allow the State to cooperate effectively with the regions and to use the infrastructure and technical capacity for the maintenance of the roads available to each region. The purpose of the proposed regulation is therefore to create a synergy effect in the form of cost savings so that regions such as the management of the roads of the second and third classes can participate in the maintenance of the roads of the first classes in their territory without being transferred to them the responsibility for their complete administration. The proposed amendment therefore removes the shortcomings of the existing legislation in order to enable cooperation between the State and the regions in the maintenance of first-class roads, as was the initial intention of the legislator in the last amendment of the Road Act. I want to say that this initiative was created on the basis of a memorandum signed at the joint meeting of the Government and the Association of Regions between all 14 regions and representatives of the Government and, respectively, Minister Took. I presume there is also the compliance of the Ministry of Transport at this step. Furthermore, I would like to say that the assessment of the corruption risks is certainly an option. As a result of the adoption of the proposed changes, there will be no change in the value of the corruption risks and so on and so on. Now I have a question as to whether I should justify the proposal so that it is approved in the '90s, I suppose...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u3	Proceed normally in your report, Mr. plaintiff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u4	Thank you. Let me therefore justify the proposal that the Chamber of Deputies should give its consent to the bill at first reading. It is proposed that pursuant to § 9 (1) (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)))) (v) (v)) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v)) (v))) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v)))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))))))))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v) (v)) The reason for the procedure chosen is that it should be possible to start preparing, as soon as possible, where the two parties' will be willing to conclude public contracts, the draft of the relevant contracts in order to achieve, in an appropriate quality of ensuring the performance of the partial activities within the management of such a road, in particular with regard to maintenance and repairs. Colleagues, colleagues, let me ask you, on behalf of myself and on behalf of my colleague Roman Sklenák, to pass the law in the 90s, that is, at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u5	Thank you, too. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Jaroslav Foldyna. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Colleague Jan Birke introduced the content of the entire law. I'm just going to recap the crucial thing that's here. The current situation, where, in the case of first-class roads, the region cannot, according to the current legal standard, be involved in full administration and, if it were to transfer them to itself, it would also have to carry out other activities for which it basically does not have any money. On the other hand, according to the legislation, the State can only transfer the overall administration, as I say, and the regions would not have enough resources for that. However, the regions have enough technological and infrastructure capacity to help improve the situation on first-class roads. Therefore, I would also like to support the adoption of the current proposal by my colleague, Mr Birke and Mr Sklenák, in accordance with Section 90.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u7	I thank you and ask you to take the floor at the rapporteur's desk. I am opening a general debate in which I am registering one application. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u8	Thank you for the floor. I've been waiting to see if the Minister of Transport would sign up, so I'd prefer him. Maybe they'll get involved later. Let's have some fun first. I found out from this press that the name Birke is inconvenient, which surprised me terribly. To this day, I thought the name Birke was bowing down and that it was the proposal of Mr Birke and Mr Sklenák, not the proposal of Mr Birke and Mr Sklenák. I don't know, but I'm gonna learn my lesson, and I'm gonna make a deal with the translator. It's just to the edge. [[Response from the post office. Birke.]] Excuse me? Unclenchable. I didn't know that. Well, at least something brings this bill a positive one. If it was so serious and so necessary, it was a government bill. It is served by government MPs, even the chairman of the largest government club. First I'm gonna make my procedural proposals, and then I'm gonna make some sense of it. Firstly, allow me, on behalf of two MPs, ODS and TOP 09, to veto the proceedings pursuant to § 90 para. 2, because there's no reason for that. Secondly - that is already my personal proposal or the proposal of our club - let me propose that I reject this bill at first reading. I remember those debates about how to manage and maintain first-class roads. I would understand and should have our support if the state had said in its concept: I am considering charging these roads, motorways and first-class roads, and all the others that I do not charge and on which I will not collect myth, I am transferring to the administration of the regions. To do this, I am transferring an adequate part of the budgetary determination of taxes, because I cannot transfer only the obligations, I have to transfer the money. I can understand that. As far as I know, maybe I'm wrong, the government has not yet decided, apart from the fact that it has prolonged the contract with the existing toll system operator, on how large the scope of the tolled communications will be if we ever see the big tender. I may have missed it, but I haven't seen it yet. But that's the first logical step. This means determining the extent of tolled roads for the next ten years, and then I say for us, then it is logical that the state retains only those toll roads, they have it after all in neighboring Austria, tried this model. All the others, then we could deal with administration, maintenance and repairs. Let's take a look at the word game. Because when you compare the text that is replaced in the final part of the press, that means the current text crossed out and the new text, so that one looks for the changes. I can document it, because the law isn't extensive. That means we're able to look at it and quote it. For example: This wording of the law is deleted. Paragraph 9 (3): "The owner of a motorway, road or local road shall be obliged to carry out its management, including in particular its regular and exceptional inspections, maintenance and repair'. This is replaced by the same text: "The owner of a motorway, road or local road shall be obliged to carry out its administration, including in particular its regular and exceptional inspections, maintenance and repairs.' I don't quite understand what change is when the sentence is cut and replaced by the same sentence. Then the original paragraph contains another sentence. And here is the change: "The administration performance may be provided by the owner of the motorway, road or local communications through the administrator, which it may be" - I note, the owner of the communication - "a legal person established or established by the owner of the motorway, road or local communication, provided that the owner is in control of the administration throughout the period of administration." Then the new diction is: "The administration performance can be provided by the owner of the motorway, road or local communication through the administrator that it is" - and not can be, that is the difference, at least I understand it that way, the difference - "a legal person established or founded by the owner of the motorway, road or local communication, provided that the owner is controlling the person in respect of it all the time of the administration." Which is that "can be" there, and here it is. This means, in a new diction, we rule out that it is someone other than the company in which the owner must be the controlling person, whether it is a state, regional or local company, at the moment when it is a local communication. I don't know why. I need to explain. Some municipalities do not have their own company, they are not a controlling person in it, but we say that this person can carry out the administration. That's weird. Or the village itself. He can't hire anyone else to do it. I think it's preconceived that it's not an intention, but maybe the petitioners will explain to me this question of how it's supposed to be done by a community that owns a local communication that doesn't have a established or established company in which it is a controlling person. Yes, she can do it herself, but it's very likely that, especially in the smaller villages, she doesn't have an apparatus, and it's common for her to compete for it. And then there is the real reason for change, and that is that the region at the time when there were 12 captains for social democracy, probably the Mayor of Prague and the Governor of the Liberec Region. (?) So I think 12 was from social democracy. Hejtman Půta was also in this electoral and last term, and in Prague you have not yet had a Social Democrat Mayor, if memory doesn't deceive me, in recent years. I remember the debate that the Ministry of Transport launched sometime before I arrived at the Ministry in 2011/12, when we proposed to launch the competition for winter maintenance. And I remember the tough resistance of the social democratic captains in particular. At that time, we did not conclude any memorandum with them at a joint meeting with the Association of Regions because we had a different opinion. We've made a compromise solution. Although the Republic was divided into about 80 or 90 units, which made sense in terms of winter maintenance, we did a pilot project, competed maybe around ten, maybe a little less than ten, and look, the savings were approximately 40 percent. And the county companies could have signed up. Not that they couldn't. They could, but they had to compete. So the whole thing is that regions want to give first-class administration and maintenance to their companies. That's the synergy effect, since we already have the circuit company, and she's got the tractors and the machines, why she can't do it for the state. I moci. Even today, if he succeeds in the competition. But the captains didn't like that very much. I don't know what the new Regional Association will say about this, which will be more varied. If I'm not mistaken, there'll be six captains, four Social Democrats, and then about one at a time. At least we should wait for their opinion on what they're saying. But there's no reason for that to happen. So illogical. [[16.30 hours]] I understand. But we're actually saying - we're going to talk about first-class roads: the administration has a state, may some contract part especially maintenance and repairs, that's what's now attractive, to convert it to the edges that give it to the controlling person, but beware, that doesn't pass the responsibility to the region. Nope. That's what's left of the owner. What's the point? Apart from the fact that someone is looking for custom activities for their own companies by law. That's all. In my opinion, there is nothing else in this bill. So let's call it that. That's what we're gonna decide. We're against it. We think it's supposed to be a competition. And if the sculptures are so good, and many of them are good, that's to be said, they're gonna win the competition. There are regions that don't have a match. So what? Well, nothing's gonna happen. They probably won't scream that they need the law because they don't have the controlling person who has the majority. It is one of the examples of an unnecessary law that solves an absolutely partial problem. Who wouldn't want to have one of the owners, and it doesn't matter whether public or private, secured by law? Everybody! That's a legitimate effort. But I don't think we should take that effort. And that's it. Read the explanatory note. It's really not long. Synergy effect of the tractors and machines. There's nothing else. So if we reject this, we'll go back to that first point, and I think it deserves a wider political debate and a broader political consensus on the future that communication is supposed to have to stand. We're suggesting it's just the charges. The others - then let's talk about how much real maintenance costs with everything. Let's bring you to the edge, bring the money to it. And then, logically, the owner will have full responsibility for the state of the communications. That's how we're gonna melt it down. If we were to approve this bill, who would be responsible for a messed-up correction? The region that has a partial activity when we say in the law that responsibility remains with the state? How can that state enforce her if she gives it up? Who's gonna determine the range? Will it be based on how big the scepter is? What else can he do? I don't really think that's a reasonable idea. And that's not even a political position. I think it's a practical debate. Instead of going down the road, I don't know if the Minister supports it or not to compete with the administration and maintenance, or repairs to first-class roads, it certainly can. And there's nothing wrong with winning county companies if they make the best offer. But we don't need to change the law to do that. You can vote this bill with a calm conscience for rejection. Anything but giving someone the right to choose a business without a competition, that bill is of no use.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u9	Thank you. As the veto of two MPs has fallen, we will not discuss this proposal in an accelerated regime. Another duly logged in... but before him with priority rights, President Sklenák. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u10	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to respond to President Stanjura's sentences. First of all, if he was wondering how the proposal was written, I have it right here, and I think it's simple. [[in a mobile device]] In essence, the existing text shall be replaced by the following text: Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) 3. Of course, if one sentence is the same in that paragraph, that's the way it is. But we wanted to reconstruct the whole paragraph. And the other thing. My colleague Stanjura's performance made me feel like there were two things going on. And one thing is road management, and the other is maintenance. We've just written it so that if we're talking like this, they can carry out maintenance, not the administration. And the second thing I want to say is that there is the possibility of the owner of the communication entrusting this partial activity to the region. Option! Not duty. This does not mean that if we approve this law, the organisations established by the Region will automatically carry out maintenance. But we can all imagine a situation where it will be economical, effective and when the ŘSD will recognize that there is a case where it would be appropriate to entrust this organization with the maintenance of those roads. So that's what the law is about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u11	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u12	I'd like to ask President Sklenák, if the rest of us who don't fully understand the fundamental difference between the administration and the maintenance. You're putting it in the opposite direction here. But in my opinion, maintenance and repair are a key part of communication management. What's left there besides when you say the administration doesn't, it leaves it standing, but there's an explicit sentence that the administration, which in the eyes of the taxpayer rightly means that it's responsible for the state of the communication, and it doesn't matter if there's a partial agreement. I agree that this is an option, not an obligation. But even the possibility is wrong. Why isn't it a government proposal? Huh? Because I think you baked it on some grémium of the Czech Social Democratic Party at a time when you still had so many captains. I really think so. Maybe you weren't able to get a majority in the government for this, so here's the thing... But there's nothing wrong with that. We're also filing parliamentary bills. I'm not criticizing that. I fully respect that. But, President Sklenák, through the Vice-President, why don't you try explaining to me when the ŘSD recognizes it as so advantageous, what will actually remain in the administration of the ŘSD on the roads of the first class? We're not talking about highways, so we understand each other. We're talking about first-class roads. I didn't quite get it from your performance. I really don't. I think I'm the only one who needs to explain the difference. And you said it right, and that might be the unintended spell that you're going to hand it over to a company that might be doing it. And that's what I don't like. You said a minute ago that if ŘSD knew the company could do it, he'd hand it over to her. The law is a little different. But what you described is the reality of how the law would be implemented. And there's really no reason for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u13	Thank you. It's a real point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I'm not a petitioner, but when I looked at this bill, I understood one thing. And maybe it's part of the answer to my colleague Stanjura's questions. From the point of view of their road maintenance management organisations, the regions were in a very problematic situation because of the previous amendment of Act No. 13 carried out summer and winter maintenance of first-class roads. They have their capacity, whether technological or personnel. And the amendment to Act No. 13 the previous set the parameter so that the contract can be concluded from the point of view of the first classes and the other listed only and only for complete administration. There was no discussion that it was possible to conclude contracts for partial activities such as summer and winter maintenance of these roads. The regions were panicked and asked in their own way to level the situation as it was currently taking place. My fellow Members, I believe, have taken this in order to meet this requirement. I don't think there's anything wrong with saying that the overall administration doesn't exempt repairs and maintenance, only summer and winter maintenance. That's what it's called in the law. That's part of what it sounds like when it's not perfect anymore, a reason message. And I think it's worth the support, because if it happens that the regions are going to be excluded and the whole administration goes to them, they really don't have that right now. And the proposal that Mr Stanjura said here has no chance of being dealt with in real time. And if it was a government proposal, as I'm looking at it from my experience, we'd be talking about the outcome in, like, two years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u15	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by President Stanjura, after whom Mr Kořenek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u16	For Mr Šidl, then, by your Presidency. You're actually right, but there's not a word in the material about summer and winter maintenance. Nothing at all. And who remembers when the regions were being created and remembers how the first class road management of summer and winter maintenance worked before, for example in statutory cities that have their companies, and nobody asked them, and from one day to the next those regions took it away from them, and also those municipalities and cities had to deal with it. And they also had the capacity, they had the machines, they had the people, and suddenly they had a lot less work to do. I know what I'm talking about from my county. But that's reality, the owner decides. That's reality. [[16.40 hours]] The proposal isn't good. He doesn't even talk about summer and winter maintenance, he talks about maintenance and repairs without transferring responsibility to the edge. If the regions want it, they can do it today, if they compete, or regional companies, but they can. If the Ministry of Transport publishes a competition for administration or winter maintenance of something, a regular competition under the Public Procurement Act, there is also a reference in the law, even in the original version, so the regional company can enter the competition, it can win and it can do it. There's nothing stopping it. Don't tell me something's stopping it today. I'm 100% right. The Ministry of Transport can enter the competition and win it. It's different here. There's no competition here. That's the difference. If the sled is good, it is well equipped technically, technologically, personnelly, why do you think it would fail in the competition? Even if he gives a good price. Now we're done with regional elections. I was driving around the Republic and the condition of the second and third-class roads was a big topic, I would say, in all regions. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] We're pretending that the twos and the threes are completely fine, and the capacity is free, so we focus on what belongs to the county to take care of the twos and the threes. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] When it's all right, then they can go to the A's. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u17	Another point of fact is made by Mr Kořenek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I don't know if I quite understand everything, but I see this proposal in the context of the memorandum concluded by the Ministry of Transport and the authorities, where we talk about the winter and routine maintenance of first-class roads. Let me give you one of many examples. It seems completely abnormal to me when a company from Prague travels along the first-class road in one city, which cleans up part of it, then lifts the plowshare, because the next part cannot clean up because it belongs to the county, there comes another car that will take care of this piece of road, and at the end our technical services will come again and clean up the rest. And explain to people why they see three cars that drive on other roads with a raised plowshare if it's in winter. I find it inefficient, inefficient. And this proposal is trying to eliminate this situation in some way. Seems logical to me. We're all saying how we want to save state resources, how we want to save money, but we're doing the opposite.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u19	Thank you. First of all, President Stanjura, with a factual remark, I'm registering you, Mr. Šidla. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u20	The Minister is not involved in the debate. I would ask the Minister to have some more recent and up-to-date information at his disposal than I do to introduce you to the results of the competition when we talk about savings and efficiency. The Ministry of Transport has been competing at least since 2013, such as winter maintenance of the first classes. I'm sure the Minister has more accurate numbers than I do. I can't have them. I'm not even calling for them. That's where the savings in the competition are. For Mr. Kořenko, by your means. Even if we approve the bill, it doesn't solve your technical services. It doesn't. I was talking about it. We had to deal with it in those cities. Before it worked well, our technical services, for example, cleaned not only 2s, 3s, but also 1s and local communications. Then the regions, because they founded their sculpture, claimed to be twos and threes in the territory of the city. And that's it. You can just compete, and that's it. So don't say that if you give it to someone out of your hand, it's about savings. It's just not like that. It's not fiction, it's not reasoning, it's not theory. That's practice. And the hard numbers are with the Department of Transport, and it can tell exactly what it was. I'm just confirming that since the first competition that took place at the time I was Minister of Transport, the captains were already protesting, that's nothing new. They just don't like it, logically defending work for their businesses. And besides, colleagues, there's nothing in the law about summer and winter maintenance. That's what we're talking about. It's a request from the authorities that the law could possibly be applied to. There's nothing on those eight sides.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u21	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Šidlo. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u22	Thank you for the floor. Just a little comment on one thing. Summer and winter maintenance of first-class roads connected here with the capacity and possibilities of repairs and maintenance of second- and third-class roads. I think that these are two quite specific areas, and I do not know many regions that have their own production capacity to repair and maintain the roads of the second and third classes. These are exceptionally two regions in the Czech Republic. The rest of them, if they did, they did the whole thing for the state. I think that this amendment of the law allows us to remove only one part from the whole administration which is intended to serve what my colleague Kořenek was talking about in order to effectively combine summer and winter maintenance so that it is not disturbed by the fact that more entities are involved and ultimately the user suffers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u23	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I thank Mr Šidl. Another duly registered member is Mr Petr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, colleagues, colleagues, I am the memorial who remembers very well how it was when road administration and maintenance were transferred to individual regions. This bill, which is very short on the outside, however the devil is always in the details, seems awfully sympathetic that the state will actually give money to the regions to take care of the so-called firsts of communication in their territory, and the regions that have their fleet to take care of it without competition. We in Central Bohemia have done this in the past by having 12 road administrations and maintenance, eight canceled without compensation, the old car scraps we had sold out, and we started competing. We agreed with the Ministry of Transport at the time and competed on the same dates as the A's. And the world, wonder, has long proven to have the Central Bohemia Region in the first place, where we competed in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport, which took care of its communication, the cheapest costs of managing and maintaining communications throughout the Czech Republic. The Central Bohemia Region has 8 600 km of roads. This is a dose that no other region in the Czech Republic can boast. And the most effective has been shown that road management and maintenance at least in our region are those organizations that prepare the documents for the region to compete, take over the buildings in accordance with contracts and so on and so on. Basically, they are some sort of administrative institutions that themselves do not carry out activities, because over time it has proven to be completely ineffective. The draft law that is coming deals with de facto two things - one who is responsible for the assets that are being managed and the other, how maintenance will actually be done. Although I respect Mr Birke because he has experience in municipal policy, I am deeply convinced that neither the state nor the region should do business where there is a business environment and rather create conditions for a business environment to work, he should try to manage as efficiently as possible. And that is absolutely, and I am deeply convinced of that, and I can prove the numbers, it is not, if it has a state, or the region has its own company, it will always prove more effective if it starts to compete. This bill basically concretes this situation and says: no competition on national roads. And I don't think that's a good thing. If you put the law into second reading, which I think is redundant, then I would very much prefer that we do some pragmatic discussion and look at the specific hard figures that the Minister of Transport already has at his disposal, and from them they then set off what it should look like and what the target state is. [[16.50 hours]] Like Zbyněk Stanjura said here, if not to make a difference in which communication, perhaps some A's, should belong to the regions. Because it's better from the point of view of practice, so let each region maintain as it pleases. If anyone feels in individual regions that it's better to have all those machines taped at home in those garages, then let me be prepared calmly, and even the Central Bohemia Region. Even in those eight years of ruling Communists and Social Democrats in the Central Bohemia Region, it turns out that this system really is the cheapest, most efficient and may be an agreement with the Ministry of Transport to compete. This bill actually brings about a principle where we concrete the situation and say: end of competition, friends. And I do not think that it is good from the point of view of taxpayers or from the point of view of the Minister of Transport, because then it turns out that there will be ever more pressure on it - give us more and more money, whose efficiency we will definitely not believe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u25	I thank Mr Bendl. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u26	Thank you. I would like to draw attention to one more thing, perhaps more general. It's what colleagues do, so don't be mad at social democracy. We've got this new institute breaking into the public administration, they call it a noble memorandum. The first memorandum she closed, I must say, the administrative government with the regions, was about financing the Czech Railways, about the state contribution. It was in Fischerův's government, if I'm not mistaken. And every year the regions automatically wanted to raise money and we concreted the situation for ten years. Now the situation is repeating itself. I think so, it may well be, but the ten-year horizon goes beyond any government's term of office. And if we want to deal with this, let's do it by law and look for a big political consensus when it's for three electoral periods, and not that it comes in a year or two or five, and six other transport ministers, and they won't do anything about it, because the regions are going to say, well, we have a memorandum and we see it as a clear commitment, and we just want as much as last year plus an inflation clause. Done. Where's the debate on organizing public transport? We're just shutting it down with the memos. I can respect that if it's in the law. Okay, it's for ten years, it's been discussed by the House, it's been passed through a proper legislative process, comment points, everyone has said something about it. And the result may be the same, but from my point of view, the understanding of the public administration's performance is much stronger than the memorandum. And today we have a second memorandum. Maybe there are others. And again in the field of transport. And the translator says, we're based on a memorandum that the government closed with the Regional Association - if I'm saying it right. So what? So here's the law, so we're looking for it. This is as positive that it is not automatically like the Czech Railways, with the contribution to covering the loss of public transport, to be exact. But that's not an argument, especially when we're a month after the election. I'd be happy to wait for the new Regional Association if that's what they really want. I'm gonna go back to what I didn't get to say earlier in that factual reminder, and that's the state of the second and third-class roads. Do these regions really have free capacities? Are these roads really in such good shape? Why the regions want contributions from the state to the maintenance and repair of the second and third-class roads and at the same time say nice state, we will do for you the administration and maintenance of the first-class roads as well. That doesn't add up, these two claims. Each of them has logic, but it doesn't really add up to logic. One goes right and the other goes left, or one goes forward and one goes backwards, so I don't use political terms left and right. None of these supporters have actually ruled out that they can do it today if it's competitive. I mean, nobody discriminates against regional sculptors to enter the competition and win the competition. So there's no negative discrimination today, like it can't be a county company. On the contrary. We're planning the discrimination. Look how it's written. The administration can be entrusted with someone who is competing under a special regulation, there is a reference to the Public Procurement Act, that is the first option. The second option is the county. And that's no contest. That's the diction of the bill. And I'm only suggesting why we don't just stick to the first option, including the fact that it can't win not the county, but the county company. The county can't compete. But we're talking about the sneakers, the synergy effects. When the synergy effect is logically such a company has to offer better conditions, it does not have to buy a new fleet, if it already has a large custom activity, it can give a better price, it is not its main business. So I really don't see why we're saying either under the Public Procurement Act or the county. I'd like to explain that. If it was just the first option, I'm sure we don't, but it seems to exist today, but someone's suggesting an option, I admit it, not an obligation, to give it to the county.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u27	Thank you to President Stanjur. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. If no one else is reporting, I am ending the general debate. Do I ask the final words of the appellants or the rapporteur? It's not like that. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. I am filing a motion to dismiss the motion tabled by President Stanjura. There's a request for all of you to be checked out. I'm signing you all out. I'm asking you to sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the motion to reject the proposal as tabled by President Stanjura. Initiating vote on the motion to dismiss. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 166 vote. 135 Members and Members are registered, for 16, against 94. The motion to dismiss has not been accepted. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest ordering another guarantee committee? Mr. Bendl is already actively reporting that he wants to? Thank you. We will therefore proceed to the vote. I am opening the vote on the commandment to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 167 vote. 139 Members and Members are registered, for 137, against none. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to any other committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment? Mr. Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u28	I am convinced that, given the competence of cities, municipalities and regions, this material should also be put on the table by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u29	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Public administration and regional development? Yes. The Minister is still applying for priority rights. Minister, what do you want to say to us? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u30	Mr President, honourable Members, I did not respond quickly enough and I just wanted to answer the President of Club Stanjur through Mr President that, as he spoke about the memoranda, the memorandum, or rather the agreement or the agreement with the regions on the financing of railway transport or the contribution does not mean that we would only support the Czech Railways. This is simply a contribution to the regions and the regions have in their hands how further they will manage this contribution. So it is not built that it is money for the Czech Railways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u31	I thank the Minister, who has reopened the debate. And with priority rights, Mr Stanjura, Mr Birke, comes forward. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u32	So the Minister wanted to open the debate, I must say. Otherwise, if he had read the deadline in time, he wouldn't have had the need to call me. Minister - I can address you directly - that's typical, me about the goat and you about the wagon. You know very well that I am talking about the memorandum of Fischerův's government, which was for the period 2009 to 2019. We resisted it, you succumbed. You put the money in that budget that the county wanted, we didn't. That's just the truth. And the fact that you're actually allowing the money to go untraceable... If at least in the contract you're planning, or if you've already signed, I really don't know, you'd be right to see who's actually using the state contribution and that there's going to be some fair competition. You know very well that private carriers wanted that condition. And you know very well that the condition isn't there. There's no condition. So let's not talk about fairy tales here, and let's face it. The government wants to support its company at the expense of others with this. Why not, if we agree on it, but again - bypassed the law, there's no such thing in the law, it's a ten-year commitment, so by about 2029. Do you really think it's politically correct in 2016 to accept contracts by 2029? No debate in Parliament, no debate with the opposition? I don't know how this debate would turn out, but we don't have a chance to comment on it at all. And that's about four governments involved. And you don't give a damn about that. And I'm saying, you didn't even anchor the obligation to compete. If I'm wrong and there it is, I'll apologize right here. But according to my information, of course, I don't know the text of the contracts, but I found out from the public debate that the obligation is simply not there. That the county is entitled to support it. It's right that the state supports regional rail transport so that someone doesn't grab me by the word that I want to put a zero in it, but it should compete. And if anyone wants to have a long-term commitment, that is. Mandarin spending the state budget, so he shouldn't do it this way without the House. That's all. Didn't we have a chance to discuss it for 10 years or 15 years? I find fifteen a better time, even given the time for which the operation of the lines should be competed. But then there are to be clear rules on how to compete, because that's taxpayers' money. And the competition simply improves the service and also lowers the price. So the passengers will make money on it. And you signed the contracts... Or I don't know if you've signed them yet. You didn't even tell us here in the House that you're making the state budget spending by 2029. Now, of course, I'm at a disadvantage in this debate because you know the contracts and I don't. And it's not because I didn't read them, it's because we didn't get them. Then the debate isn't fair. I feel at a disadvantage, logically. And I just gave it here as an example, so we don't talk about the memorandum with the Czech Railways and the support of the regional railway. I set this as an example that we are multiplying such strange shapes as memorandums, because it was used by the proponents of this bill. We can discuss this another time. I would be in favour of taking such an initiative, it could be called supporting passenger rail transport in the next 15 years, at least to inform the House what you have actually prepared, how it will actually be. So far, I've read that you're planning a state train rental, which I don't know if that's true, because if I don't have the material in front of me, I don't know. This idea - the state buys trains and lends them to carriers... Well, I'm quite surprised. And it's even gone. But if we don't discuss it, don't be angry, you may have it discussed within the coalition, but we won't know. That's why it may seem like we're asking. We ask because the information is simply not available. But if we go back to the bill - and the Minister is still keeping his mouth shut, I was expecting you to tell us the experience of the competitions. A friend on the phone from the D.O.D. might have already written it as it is. I know you can't have it in your head now that I spill on you tell me how many contracts there are, how much money has been saved. That's what I understand. But we've been talking about this for about an hour, and then you say-- there's something else I want to say about the memorandum. But about the bill in question, if you would at least generally say and confirm our conviction, or our opinion that the competitions lead to savings and that the Ministry wants to continue them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u33	I thank Mr Stanjur and the Minister. Minister, you've opened the debate for us. Please, Mr. Birke.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for opening the debate. I want to apologize to all of you for letting me get carried away because I was wondering why I wasn't actually bowing down, so I forgot to ask you for a shorter period of 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-002-139.u35	Thank you, honourable Member. I'm registering his motion to shorten the deadline. I have here with Mr Kudela's point of fact. Ambassador? No. You just tickled the button. I'm erasing you, then. Thank you. And that was the last one entered into the debate so far. If anyone else doesn't report, I'm done with the debate. Let's get back to the vote. We have already ordered the proposal to the guarantee committee, which is the Economic Committee, and Mr Bendl has proposed that we vote on the commandment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. There's the check-out application again. I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. I am opening the vote on the commandment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, as proposed by Mr Petr Bendl. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 168 vote, 129 Members and Members registered, for 92, against 16. [[according to board 130]] The motion was accepted. The last proposal we will be voting on is a proposal to shorten the deadline by 30 days to 30 days, as proposed by Mr Jan Birke. Initiating vote to reduce the deadline to 30 days. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the 169th vote, 131 Members and Members, for 70, against 41. The proposal to shorten the deadline was accepted. I note that the proposal was directed to the Economic Committee as a guarantee, as well as to the Public Administration and Regional Development Committee, and the time limit for the hearing was reduced to 30 days. I thank both the appellant and the rapporteur, and I conclude on this point. The next item is the item number
