ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u1	209. Report on the state of agriculture of the Czech Republic for 2014 /house print 595/ We dealt with this House press on 10 March this year at the 42nd meeting. We have interrupted and adjourned this item until the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to resolution 1134. I ask Mr Gabrhel to take the position of rapporteur at the table as rapporteur for this press. [[He's not present.]] Oh, so there's going to be an exchange of newsletters. In the meantime, I will ask Minister Marian Jurečka to present this report on behalf of the government. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, on the basis of Act No. 252/1997 Coll., on Agriculture, and the Plan for the Government's Non-Legal task for the first half of 2015 is presented Report on the state of agriculture of the Czech Republic for 2014. The report on the state of agriculture of the Czech Republic, which has been published since 1994, is a statistical-information material representing the events in the department in the given year. According to national accounts statistics, the agricultural sector participated in total GDP formation at basic current prices of 1.82 % in 2014, which represents a slight increase of 0.01% year on year. In the case of the food industry, on the other hand, the share of total GDP has decreased by 0.02% of the point to 2.25 percent of GDP. However, 2014 represents a further strengthening of the stabilization of the agricultural sector with significant growth in all global indicators of the general agricultural account compared to the results of 2013. The economic result reached a record value of 2.9 billion in 2014. Crowns. Production of the agricultural sector increased by 6,5 %. With an increase in crop production and livestock production by 4,7 % and 10 % respectively. Intermediate consumption increased by 4.4%, which was positively reflected in the growth of other global indicators. [[11.30 hours]] The evolution of agricultural producer prices in 2014 showed a year-on-year decline of 3.7 percent, i.e. agricultural production including fish, which is a greater decrease than the prices of agricultural inputs recorded, there is a minus 1.3 percent. The share of agriculture in state budget expenditure decreased by 0.23 percentage points in 2014 to 3,85 percentage points. The reduction of employment in agriculture continued at a more moderate pace in 2014. The year-on-year decline in farm workers was 1.4 % and their number decreased to around 102 thousand workers. The share of workers in agriculture in total employment in the Czech Republic's national economy was 2.1 % and has not changed practically year-on-year. The turnover of Czech agrarian foreign trade is constantly increasing. In 2014, it increased by 32 billion yoy. CZK, i.e. by 9.3 % to 377.3 billion. Crowns. Of which, on the export side, the value increased by 18.9 billion. CZK, i.e. by 11.8% to 179.5 billion, and on the import side increased by 13.1 billion. CZK, that means 7.1 per cent per 197,7 billion. Crowns. As a result of this development, the negative balance of agrarian foreign trade in the Czech Republic decreased year on year by 5.9 billion. Kroner, that's almost one quarter to 18.2 billion. CZK, and the degree of export cover has improved by 3.8 percentage points to 90.8%, which are the most favourable values since the Czech Republic's accession to the EU. The share of the balance sheet deficit in Czech agrarian exports has decreased from one-third to one-tenth in the last five years. Part of the overall report on the state of agriculture of the Czech Republic for 2014 is also a proposal for measures necessary for implementation within the sector resulting from the report. The report on the state of agriculture of the Czech Republic for 2014 was discussed in the agricultural committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on 23 September 2015 by resolution 81, delivered to Members as press 595/1. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u3	Thank you, Minister of Agriculture, and I note that after the committee's discussion and after the meeting, I have received Mr Vlastimil Gabrhel's apology from today's meeting. We will therefore have to deal with the proposal to amend the rapporteur. Mr Ladislav Velebný is proposed as rapporteur for this report. I'll take the vote. Who agrees with the rapporteur's amendment that Member Velebný should be rapporteur? I have launched the 188 vote and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 188, from the present 142 for 108, against no one. So we have a changed rapporteur. I will therefore ask Mr Ladislav Velebný to inform us of the committee's deliberations, and I remind you that the resolution of the agricultural committee has been delivered to you as House Press 595/1. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u4	Mr. Manager, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, at its 22nd meeting of 23 September on the following report on the state of agriculture of the Czech Republic in 2014, the House Press 595 adopted the following resolution: After the opening words of Deputy Minister of Agriculture Jindřich Šnejdrla, the report by Mr Vlastimil Gabrhel, represented by Mr Pavel Kováčik, and after the debate recommends the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to take note of the report on the state of agriculture of the Czech Republic in 2014. He instructs the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and empowers the Committee rapporteur to report on the outcome of this report at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting of the Agricultural Committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I call for him to take the floor at the rapporteur's table, and we can continue with the interrupted general debate in which I have Mr Herbert Pavera signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u6	Nice and pleasant morning, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, Mr President, Mr Minister. I'd just like to respond briefly to some of the stuff from the report on the state of agriculture, which maybe didn't even come out here. I would like to introduce you to this and tell you and then ask the Minister on a few issues only. Just so you know, in the report, among other things, if you haven't looked at it, it says that 96 percent of the population buys in the top 10 supermarket chains, and that food consumption, as the Minister said, I think, increased by 1.2% in 2014. Among other things, there is information that the cost of alcohol and cigarettes is higher for the unemployed than for the self-employed. So just so you know, there's such interesting information. The cost of marketing brands, marked foods, was very low in that year compared to other flights. I think that this is the right thing to do, although it will not be this year, where a larger amount is planned again to support KLASA. You know that I support rather regional food, maximum Czech product. I think that's quite sufficient. The Czech Republic is self-sufficient in many agricultural commodities. Just so you know, maybe we're self-sufficient in milk by making 131% milk. It's about 57 percent for pork. I'm talking about 2014. We have over 140 percent of beef production, 42 percent of vegetables. The oil is 162 %, rape 137 %, sugar 146 %, poultry 80 %. I also think that vegetables, including pig meat and poultry, are below 100 per cent so far, have also appeared in the Minister's strategic plan by 2030. So I guess that's what's expected to somehow support these commodities here. Another interesting information is that 65 per cent of enterprises have an area of up to 10 hectares and account for only 2.3 per cent of the total area. And 4 per cent of the total number of enterprises are enterprises with an acreage above 500 hectares. Now I would ask the Minister a question, because the Czech Statistical Office writes that there are 97 700 employees in agriculture, whereas the Ministry of Agriculture says 102 100. So there is a bit of a contradiction of 4,000 or 5,000 employees between the Czech Statistical Office and data from the Ministry of Finance. Another interesting piece of information that could be heard here is the support of school fruit. Of course, we agree with that, but as I've already announced in the past, I don't think it should be much more than the average price in stores at prices. Which often isn't. The Ministry of Agriculture also supported the establishment and development of enterprises in 2014. In 2014, it was CZK 362 million. Compared to 2013, it was an increase of CZK 113 million. One project accounted for 1.23 jobs and the total cost of one job was around 158 thousand crowns. The last thing I would like to ask the Minister is the tables in which the agricultural land price developments and the comparison with foreign land prices are mentioned. Because in 2013 we are told that the price is usually around CZK 10, 11 per m2, whereas when compared with other EU countries, it is in euro, there is EUR 2,476, which times 27 makes some 66,000, which is CZK 6.6, which does not correspond to what is in the table on the prices of agricultural land per m2, table T7.2/03. [[11.40 hours]] So much for the report and I believe that the Chamber of Deputies will take note of the report. I just want to say in conclusion what I've said here many times. All subsidies are completely inappropriate. Unfortunately, in agriculture it is necessary to have these subsidies so far, to encourage our farmers to be competitive, because the whole of the European Union strongly supports its farmers and we cannot be on the sidelines. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u7	Thank you, Mr Herbert Paver, and Mr Petr Bendl is another member of the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister, we are discussing the report on the state of agriculture in 2014, so it might seem to somebody that it is actually over and that there is perhaps nothing interesting about it. Still, I would have pierced some things out of that report and put them in the context of what's happening today. The report states that there has been - and I quote this rather than making any undue mistake - the economic results of the agrarian sector say that 2014 represents a further strengthening of the stabilization of the agricultural sector with significant growth in all global indicators compared to 2013; on the other hand - and the figures relating to employment in the agrarian sector, the minister said the work of the previous speaker, who pointed out that, in fact, the agricultural sector is falling in terms of employment, first of all, compared to other sectors. Secondly, the trends, I think there are already in 2014 problems in the area of milk production and sales. At the last meeting of the agricultural committee, we were familiar with the opinion of the Agrarian Chamber on this particular area and already in 2014 it was clear that the conflict between production and sales, i.e. the price, would certainly occur. At the same time, in 2014 as opposed to 2013, it can be seen that pork production, which was higher in 2013, is lower in 2014, so some big stabilization definitely, or the first sentence I read, does not apply very well. I am just quoting at random from a text entitled "Proposal for the necessary measures resulting from the 2014 report on the state of agriculture of the Czech Republic in the field of agrarian policy," which is part of the material in the report, which I suppose most did not read, but I quote at least some things, because whether you want it or not, it will affect us all more and more in the future, virtually. Nature is telling us this more and more. One of the proposed measures from 2014 which was declared here by the Ministry of Agriculture is that it wants to create a concept of dealing with the negative effects of droughts, water shortages in the Czech Republic, with a priority to reduce water erosion. I agree with that. This was true in 2014 and even more in 2015 because we were affected by catastrophic drought in some areas of the Czech Republic, and the manifestations of water erosion - given the amount and mainly the intensity of water rainfall or rainfall that the Czech Republic is experiencing, it often causes water erosion, so I would like to ask what measures are already working. I do not mean monitoring, but what we have done in that year and five or six months in particular, where farmers in this area can achieve measures in the area of the negative effects of drought, what programmes we already have announced, where farmers can draw money, but not only farmers, or cities, municipalities, how much money we have on these issues this year, because in 2014 we stated - or the Ministry of Agriculture stated - that this is necessary and that it is necessary to propose, process and develop a concept of addressing the negative impact issues. That's one of my questions. The second point is random. I quote: "From the point of view of soil protection against degradation of its quality, support animal production, which creates a diversity of crops and subsequently ensures the supply of indispensable manure.' It is a general sentence that we would all probably all agree to, but I wanted to ask, in this context, because I have information that the subsidies paid are at risk, which will be paid this year, but they were subsidies to agriculture intended for 2015 in the area of unminded cattle, where approximately 600 applicants are allegedly at risk for this financial support, so I would like to ask the Minister if he could say how we are doing, because it seems that hundreds of livestock farmers would not reach the subsidy, which I would consider to be a huge problem. You could talk about the material for hours and hours. Unfortunately, the Minister was not here on the agricultural committee, they submitted it and discussed it with his deputy, so I apologize that I may be stalling. I would have a lot of questions, but I understand that this may not be very important for most of the Chamber of Deputies, but believe me, it is extremely important for us as citizens in the future. Therefore, I would ask at least for answers to this, when we can do nothing but take note of the tasks that the Ministry itself wrote in this area in 2014, or in the 2014 report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u9	I thank Mr Bendl and the rapporteur, Mr Velebný, with a factual remark. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we are discussing the 2014 Agriculture Report. This year was really economical. The results of the sector in 2014 have reached a record level of 2,9 billion since 1995. Crowns. In 2013, I remind you, it was 16.2 billion. Crowns. At the same time, growth in intermediate consumption was also recorded and the growth trend of this sector continued. The balance sheet deficit of Czech agrarian foreign trade decreased by 5.9 billion year on year in 2014 as a result of a higher increase in export values than imports. Ladies and gentlemen, the year 2014 sounds like this. The year 2015 will be very interesting and I believe that there we can think about what will happen with foreign trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u11	I thank my colleague Velebný and Mr Pavel Šrámek's factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Of course, comparing the 2014 report to the state of agriculture 2016, when we know that there is a major agrarian crisis today, is very problematic. 2014 really did not go wrong and it is very difficult to comment on this situation today. However, I was interested in one thing in this report, because, as you probably know, I am active in agriculture, in the last two years, the administrative burden on farmers has increased greatly, in an almost outrageous way, by each crown you have to submit almost one or two applications. So I was interested in one thing in this report that the Ministry of Agriculture's Anti-Burocratic Commission, which was set up by the Minister of Agriculture, was working in the Ministry of Agriculture. I would like to ask how this anti-Burrocratic commission works and what results it has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u13	Thank you, Mr Šrámek. This has been the last one entered into the general debate so far. The Minister of Agriculture wants to respond. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u14	Thank you. I'll try as those questions have been made. As for the differences between the number of agricultural workers, what Mr Pavera has pointed out here, I am unable to say exactly where the difference between the Czech Statistical Office and the Ministry of Finance is. I suppose it's going to be a little bit of a different method of collecting these data. The question is whether the employee always counts, if they are combined enterprises, in primary production, or in processing. 'Cause I could see there might be a difference. With regard to the issue of what you have outlined here, fruits, vegetables for schools, I think, despite all the reservations we can have about the programme, even after the modification we made 14 days ago, when fruit and vegetable growers of the Czech Republic will be able to participate directly in this programme, so that the programme really gets even more sense than it had so far. There is a significant increase in the number of schools involved and the number of pupils involved. Today we get over half a million primary school pupils of the first grade, or the last year before entering the first grade at kindergarten. I must say that the question of jobs that has been brought to the attention here - the problem is that productivity in agriculture is constantly increasing, thanks to new technologies and the pressure to reduce costs, we have just had a permanent decline in agricultural jobs since 1990. Let's not even say that future development doesn't seem entirely optimistic that the trend should turn significantly, that there should be an increase. We in Strategy 2020-2030 are counting on this certain gradual decline, because a lot of farmers are already trying to replace the workforce by buying a milking robot today, for example, because getting people to the milking parlor who will be up at 3:30 in the morning is very complicated. So, unfortunately, this is simply a tax on new technologies and a pressure on greater efficiency. However, we see the potential for growth in jobs in the food sector, where the limits here are not yet entirely on their ceilings. So here's the space for this whole resort to be stable, is. We are also trying to create these new jobs by ending now with the receipt of applications for the Young Starting Farmers programme. After more than two years, this challenge from the new operational programme in the new programming period, the rural development programme, has started, so it is also some support to motivate young farmers to start farming. With regard to the difference in land price, the figures that were in the table and indicated by PGRLF are market prices. And if there's a comparison of that abroad, the lower table, I suppose it's a question of prices - price comparison - official prices. Because what we have from PGRLF is an indication of a real business, a real contract that we've either given a loan to, or we've given interest support on a loan, so that's where we're based on a market price. Mr Pavera also said that all subsidies are inappropriate. I would like to argue with him a little, because I say that the system that is set up today throughout the European Union is not really sustainable in my opinion. However, in mountain and sub-mountain areas, I cannot imagine that we would be able to maintain production and employment without compensating these farmers for the difference that is there against those intensive areas and could hardly compete in their production. So I wouldn't say that we should leave everything for subsidies in the future, but in some areas, we're not going to do it directly in another way. The question raised here by Mr Bendl, which, although it concerns more this period than 2014, is such a difference and conflict between sales and production - I would say that today we can probably thank the vast network of chain stores in the Czech Republic, which is the highest in terms of sales area per capita across the European Union. Because this really dominant position that has been created here, and it is mainly the foreign trade chains that hold the majority, it is not really equal to not having the effects of those countries where they come from, especially during a crisis period. We're trying to find a solution through a discussed law on significant market power. We are looking for ways to educate consumers in order to quickly focus on what a real Czech product is, so that they also understand it graphically, whether it is a regional food label, KLASA or Czech food. The issue of water and wind erosion has been mentioned here, and what we have done specifically for this time of year. I must say that the new agricultural policy has brought so-called since last year. Greening measures, that is to say, higher entitlements for farmers who, for example, have to comply with a high proportion of grasses or, for example, by including protein crops, or with a completely new condition to have intermediate crops in the rotational process and do not receive a specific payment for these intermediate crops. They just have to do it under these terms and conditions of the greenings. Furthermore, there is a significant increase - I must say that the areas of intermediate crops have increased significantly between 2014 and 2015. We have an increase in biobands, which I think are very important anti-erotic measures, but they also have a positive impact on the exercise of hunting rights, for example. This year, we have just finished receiving applications from farmers and municipal authorities of municipalities and cities for subsidies for the construction of new water reservoirs, new ponds, for their maintenance, for debauchery, for repairs of dams, for the creation of safe tides. We have strengthened the work of the land office in a significant way in terms of the creation and start of land-use modifications, because land-use treatment is the key way we can return the landscape, the cadaster to the original character or zoom in as close as possible to the natural principles in nature, the movement of water, and anti-erosion measures. The last thing that was mentioned here - the payment of subsidies. I must say that in the autumn of last year, in October, we published on the website what will be the schedule for payment of subsidies. The timetable was discussed with all the NGOs on the roundtable, and the only change was in case of payment of the greening subsidies, when we had to move the deadline by about two months. And it wasn't an SZIF error or the Ministry of Agriculture, it was a supply company that misguided the formula and parameters for calculating this payment. So this company had to then, because it was discovered at the end of January, repaired and unfortunately it took two months. Today, at the end of April, 97 percent of the decision on this payment was issued to farmers. Unfortunately, not all farmers, about one third did not exercise the right to appeal, or to waive the right to appeal, and could have had the money immediately. About a third of the farmers left that deadline, that if they don't give up that right, we can't send the money to their account. The three percent of the applicants are farmers who have detected certain irregularities or errors in the on-the-spot checks that have been carried out, and they are now being dealt with. All the remaining grant titles were paid in the schedule, which was published, which was discussed, and even for most of the grant titles we managed to pay even a week or two earlier. There was a question about the anti-Burrocratic commission's activities. The Anti-Burrocratic Commission works - I think either Minister Bendl or Minister Fuksa founded it, now I don't know which of you predecessors. The Commission meets at least once a month, chaired by the President of the Association of Private Agriculture, Mr Stehlík and the initiatives that are based on it for the regulation of laws, for simplification, so I think that they are quite rational and we often include them in all internal commentary procedures. The Anti-Burrocratic Commission will receive any legislative material that goes under inter-ministerial notice proceedings before the board meeting and has the opportunity to comment on these materials. [[12.00 hours]] As far as the question about the increase in administration and legislation is concerned, I must say that it has been linked mainly to a significantly more complicated system of the entire common agricultural policy since 2015. We have held European legislation in practically every case and have not gone beyond the requirements imposed by European legislation. If farmers draw attention to some of the things that complicate their application for subsidies, for example, in the area of investment subsidies, I have to say here for my resort that unfortunately these are not our requirements, but they were created within a uniform and methodological environment, within the monitoring system. The MMR told all departments that it wanted higher requirements on the issue of competitions, on the issue of proofing certain things. And here we just weren't able to convince our colleagues that it was redundant. So about that briefly on the basic questions. We can discuss the current situation in agriculture for a long time. I just want to say that this year between 2015 and 2016 the amount of CZK 2.3 billion from national resources will be paid or paid higher to animal production, or to certain special crops. Agricultural NGOs have that information. The grant titles that relate to drought compensation, subsidy title 19 and 20, which are new here, plus green oil, which I believe will be discussed with retroactive effect from 1 January, so all these measures are in the sum of CZK 2.3 billion extra, because today farmers both for pork and milk, you really know who you are, they produce with a loss of two crowns and more on one litre or per kilogram. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u15	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Before we go any further, I'll read one apology. Today, from 15 a.m. to the end of the day, for personal reasons, Mr Zahradníček apologizes. I'm recording two factual points. Mr Bendl, Mr Pavera, has the first. [[Gesticulation on the right.]] Okay, well, in that case, we'll change the order. Mr Pavera, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I'm just going to respond briefly to the Minister. School fruit - I said I support it, and I think we agree there with the support of school fruit, especially those that are grown in the Czech Republic. I was just pointing out that not at the prices I saw in your report, etc. I think they're tens of percent higher prices than normal prices, I don't think they correspond to normal prices. With regard to the jobs you have been talking about, yes, I think that there is still a possibility in agriculture and the food industry to get new jobs both in the food and processing industries concerning various agricultural products. Totally okay with that. As far as subsidies are concerned, I also agree with you that not all subsidies can be cancelled. But most of these subsidies are really bad, no matter what industry it is. And for your information, I'm sure you know that the subsidies were for farmers and for the first Republic. You mentioned greening here. I think that the Ministry of Agriculture or SZIF here really did a little bit of a problem for farmers who were waiting for greening payouts because they had it planned for payments, loan payments, etc. and really many of them have gotten into a lot of complications. That's not really part of the report here, but since you mentioned it, I'm just repeating it. And I believe that the director of the SZIF, who was at the last meeting of the agricultural committee, promised to give precise deadlines for next year so that farmers would know how to set their instalments and that there would be no more such shifts in the payment of the subsidy deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u17	Thank you, too. Now, with a point of fact, Mr. MP... With a proper application? In that case, you must wait, because I already have Mr Šenfeld's duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear government, dear colleagues, I would very much like to see the most important part of this place in a lot of words. When we ask ourselves what results the Czech agriculture achieved in 2014, it should be said that these results are very favourable. So what was 2014 like compared to 2013? Production increased by 7 %, but since intermediate consumption only increased by 2 %, net added value increased by 31 percent. These effects resulted in an increase in business income, a profit of 37 per cent, since the subsidies were high but increased by only 2 per cent year on year. From many economic data there is one that speaks best about the results, so there is talk of profit, business income. It was extraordinary in agriculture in 2014, almost CZK 23 billion. He has never achieved such a value in the past. Years 2008 to 2010 10.1 billion the most, but only 2.8 billion in 2009. In the following three years there is a significant change, profit is between 16 and 17 billion crowns. And the last year's change is an increase of 37 percent. According to both criteria, change in year-on-year and change in time, this is a result of more than good, which, however, often does not occur. It is possible to talk about the favourable trend that has been reflected in the relationship between production and consumption, but also between production and subsidies. Unfortunately, we can no longer talk about the favourable trend after the results achieved by Czech agriculture in 2015. The report on the state of agriculture has not yet arrived in the House, or at least I do not know, and there profits, business income, decreased year on year from CZK 2.9 billion to CZK 16.9 billion, i.e. by 26.2%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u19	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. And now, therefore, the duly signed-up Mr Bendl for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u20	Thank you for the floor. The subsidies. After all, we all know that this is a drug that is easy to get used to, but it will eventually become poison in the finals, because it is simply never possible to give the subsidies absolutely fairly and will always create disharmony in the competitive environment and will be one or another favoured and the third disadvantaged. That's just the way it is. Unfortunately, or thankfully, in the environment of the European Union, we live in an environment of the free market, where individual states treat agriculture differently. We have a system of financing, a system of support for Czech agriculture set up differently than the old fifteen, and therefore there will always be some disproportion and disharmony. It's up to us how we do it. There is no doubt that subsidies cause inequality in business. But without them at this point, we are unable to live at all, or the agricultural sector is unfortunately unable to live. If the subsidies disappeared, in the neighboring countries' environment, or in neighbouring countries' subsidised agriculture, our agricultural and food sector would simply not be able to survive. And that is a fact that can be said sadly. After all, agriculture lives and cannot be planned purely from year to year, it is planned for a much longer period. It's more complicated than that. And all the things we're starting today will not be harvested until the following years. Therefore, even the results that are today or were yesterday were established two, three, four years before. That's just the way it is. And those who move in agriculture know that they simply cannot be managed there as in one calendar year. Although what my colleague said here is true, it wasn't really paid about 6.7 billion last year. CZK, as I saw from the report on drawing up the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture budget for 2015. [[12.10 hours]] And that may be a little bit of an answer to the speaker who said that gross domestic product or retirement is worse. Well, it wasn't paid, even if it was due for 2015 to be paid, about 6,7 billion. Crowns. I agree that it may be partially objective because we are moving into a new financial period, so maybe it carries some problems with it, or absolutely certainly, even so, and I will read here to a colleague who complains as an entrepreneur in agriculture to bureaucracy, so here in this text - because paper can really carry everything, the Report on the state of agriculture of the Czech Republic in 2014 - it is said that they will propose, in accordance with the prepared simplification of the common agricultural policy, to limit maximum administrative requirements for Czech agricultural entrepreneurs, thereby reducing their administrative and bureaucratic burden. A little redundant because reality is what it is. The sentence here is that the resort wants to promote closer cooperation with schools included in the permanent education base within the Ministry of Agriculture. The former government has agreed to support and help in the operation of forestry schools that they will get at their disposal, each school, and we do not really have much, one chase. The Minister of Agriculture has made sure that they are not all far from getting them, perhaps one forestry school. However, cooperation with schools included in a permanent education base within the Ministry of Agriculture should be encouraged. I think there are some contradictions in what the report says and what reality is. Just like when the Minister of Agriculture here, when he was plowing for rape in the fields and for a discount on biodiesel taxes and talking about thousands of new jobs, I ask where the new jobs are, the thousands when he defended it here. It's also kind of hard to see here, and it's kind of not great to see in 2015 either. I would be interested to know when the Minister here spoke of the fact that they have already completed some revenue from applications for individual projects, so how much funding has been earmarked, and under what conditions they are drawn. I got to one rural development programme, which I suspect is program 8.31, where the applicant gets a 100% subsidy if he builds a retention tank and some waterworks in a special - how was it there? If it operates on 500 hectares of forest and it is some kind of special destination forest, etc. I would like to know if municipalities and cities, or agricultural entrepreneurs and others can also look forward to a 100% subsidy, or if it is just a subsidy for someone, and how is it possible that someone gets one hundred percent and one percent less, or if the municipalities, when they ask for the reconstruction of ponds and the construction of new water areas, which is undoubtedly a worthy activity that will pay us in the future, maybe they will also receive such grants. Then put your hat down and thank God for it, because we need water in the landscape. When colleagues were bumping into it, or the minister here said that we were trying to do our utmost in the agrarian sector to avoid raising demands, virtually. They only did what the EU wants us to do, and they weren't tougher than Europe wants us to do, then all I have to do here is remember a decree that concerns the application of sludge from sewage treatment plants, where you have committed, Minister, that the decree is harder than the EU directives require us to do, and we could do it according to my deep conviction, virtually. farmers could use them to return them to the soil. Unfortunately, we are tougher than Europe wants us to be, and then we are patting our shoulders here and we are saying how much we want to fight erosion and how much we want the biofuels to go back to the soil, but when it comes to a specific act, instead, we are essentially preventing farmers from using sewage sludge, based on the fact that we have adopted the Ministry of Agriculture in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment, a directive that basically makes it impossible and cannot be done. So what the Minister said here is that the Ministry of Agriculture is trying not to be tougher than the EU wants us to be. Here I'm proving one of several examples that it wasn't true. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u21	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with Mrs Dobešová's factual remark and Mr Šrámek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u22	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. It does not allow me to respond to Mr Bendl's speech on the permanent education base of agricultural schools. I must say that my school has been part of this permanent educational base since 2001. [[He's talking very strongly.]] The Minister in Agriculture is currently the first minister in all the time who has really started preparing grant titles for agricultural schools so that they can remember their schools with teaching aids! It also prepares vocational training centres. Through the President, Mr Bendle, with all due respect for you, when you were Minister of Agriculture, I was in a permanent educational base! You haven't supported us in your life or morally! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u23	Thank you. Now, with Mr Šrámek's factual remark, Mr Bendl will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm not going to talk about the education system, I just want to make a comment. Agriculture in 2014 had some balance or profit of 22 billion. It must be said that the tobacco industry is also included in this balance, so it is not just pure agriculture. In this report, I did not find precisely the division between these individual entities or departments, and I would like to ask the Minister if this number is, by any chance, germinated into animal production, plant production and, for example, tobacco management. And I would also like to respond to the subsidies, as Mr Pavera had here, that they are inappropriate. I agree with you that subsidies are inappropriate. But, you know, I would immediately cancel them, but we would have to cancel them throughout the EU. The problem in the Czech Republic is that the subsidies are set completely differently than there. In the Czech Republic, we adopted the system mainly for area payments, i.e. per hectare. This measure proved to be devastating for the Czech food industry and animal production. This model was introduced by Greece when it joined the EU, when it was recommended by the European Union in 1981, or rather forced to raise the payment per hectare. Greece is importing over 80 percent of food today. Unfortunately, we have also introduced this system and, as a result, plant production is growing and animal production is falling very much, which means a decline in food production. And on the job, I'd say. You know, animal production employs five times as many people as plant production, and if we have support per hectare, we will support plant production and we will continue to reduce unemployment. That means it has something to do with the subsidy system. And if we don't change it, then employment in agriculture will continue to decline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u25	Thank you, too. Now, with the factual remark of Mr Bendl. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u26	Thank you for the floor. I must respond to the smiling words of the director of the regional school established by the region, not by its ownership. I noticed that, together with Agrofert, you presented the activities of your agricultural school, meaning the regional agricultural school. I noticed that, of course. But believe me, financing aids in schools is not a matter for the Minister of Agriculture, but a matter for the founder, and that is the Central Bohemia Region. The fact that your school looks what it looks like, I mean, regional, I'm stressing again is because the region cares for it in the past and in the present. The fact that it looks good is also the Margo founder, whose representative I have been for eight years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u27	Thank you. Now, with Mrs Dobešová's point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u28	Allow me, Mr President, I would react once again. Mr Bendle, through Mr President, you have just answered your own question. [[Very strongly.]] I haven't seen a single teaching aid for you as the captain, so that's worse! Not only did you just give me to operate, but you didn't put me on a tractor or anything else! And those are teaching aids at the agricultural school! So now you've uploaded yourself into your goal! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u29	Thank you. Now with a point of fact. Just for the record, I want to ask: Minister, are you applying with priority rights? Then you must wait, because he will now speak with a factual remark by President Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u30	Mr Vice-President, I would ask you to follow the Rules of Procedure and call the Members to speak to the point. I'm sorry Mr. Bendl didn't put the lady on the tractor, but as I recall... [[Laughing]] I admit the tractor belongs to agriculture. I'm from the village, so I'm quite familiar with this situation. But in 2014, Petr Bendl was certainly not the captain of the Central Bohemia Region. I know you look like a school of Agrofert and not a county school, and you have it in every manual you give us here. But what kind of materials do you carry here? Why are you talking about a tractor in 2007 or 2008? Well, I don't know if he was gonna give you the Central Bohemia County tractor. But we're at a point. Report on the state of agriculture of the Czech Republic in 2014, not at the point why the secondary school did not receive a tractor from Petr Bendl. Well, I'm sorry, but, Vice-President, it's your fault, you're supposed to join the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u31	A factual remark under the Rules of Procedure serves as a response to the debate under way, which I think has taken place. In any case, you are right in that we are currently discussing the report on the state of agriculture of the Czech Republic in 2014. With a factual remark, Mr Laudát. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Completely to the point. I'd like someone here to start screaming instead of cultivating standard language and barking with forgiveness to ban him from talking. We are in the Parliament of the Czech Republic, and not somewhere in a crack. And I apologize to all the people who work at the crack and are decent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u33	Yes, thank you. You're right, it concerns all political parties. Now I'll read the apologies. Today, Mrs Zelienková apologizes from 14.00 to 19.15 for reasons of work, from 11.00 to 13.00 without giving any reason to apologize to Mrs Radka Maxová, from 12.00 to 12.45 for personal reasons, Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes and from 13.00 to 18.00 because of the doctor's visit, Mr Schwarz apologizes. Now, therefore, with priority rights, the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u34	Thank you. Now, we should really focus on 2014 and the situation of agriculture here in the debate. I, as the promoter of this report, when a number of Members have been brought to the attention of others here, I will try to shed some light on them here. I would like to say that 2014 was a very special year, and I dare say that none of the politicians can say that it had a major influence, because the yields in plant production were so extremely good because such an excellent interplay of circumstances during vegetation was not here as I remember. Excellent conditions in winter, plants vegetated, practically did not freeze in winter, excellent conditions then from spring to summer, excellent conditions for harvest and it all happened with extremely high prices of virtually all commodities. That's really something we'll probably remember for a long time. However, speaking of 2015, 2015 was the third best year in the history of Czech agriculture, although at that time we felt various weather problems, it can be said that the reverberation of 2014 was still projected until 2015. I'm going back to that again. We must realise that in 2015 we have the launch of a new common agricultural policy, which distributes money in a completely different way for farmers and also wants other things for them. Previously, such claims on farmers were not such as they were under the new common agricultural policy, and this followed the entire schedule of payment of subsidies. And I am returning again to the fact that in October last year this timetable for all the agricultural public was published and discussed by government organisations. For that one mistake in the case of greening, I apologized, even if it wasn't on the side of us or SZIF, but on the side of the supplier of the information system. Education has been mentioned here, you've already exchanged some things here, I wanted to put the debate back on some rational level. What I would like mostly is for education, middle school, not just agriculture, to start to do something systemic. We've closed 30 schools this week, medium-sized, not only in agriculture, but forestry, food, fishing, and I think we're gonna support the vet that we're gonna be supporting next week from our grant title, which I think we're gonna do next week on the government. And the remaining schools have to decide whether they want them, in what quality and what they will do for it. Because the fact that high school doesn't have money today - I know about one single case where the region has significantly faced high school, and this is the Region of Vysočina, which was able to get nearly 60 million crowns into the school farm without subsidies, so virtually no other region has given such large amount of money to its school facility in the agrarian sector in recent years. So we're just trying to fill a certain hole in the market here, and we're not even gonna save that 50 million if the county doesn't come up with another way, maybe MŠMT could play a more active role as coordinator. I answer a direct question from Mr Bendl: Yes, in the Rural Development Programme, Mr President, there is a 100% subsidy in the case of forest recovery measures in the woods that are intended for this. This is the only case where such subsidies are earmarked there. You were talking here about the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture didn't live up to the commitment, and what I was talking about, when you used the example of the sludge, and that here we went beyond European legislation. You, as Minister of Agriculture, ex-boyfriend, must know very well, or you should know that this matter falls within the competence of the Ministry of the Environment. We opposed the material in the inter-ministerial commentary procedure, today it is a renegotiated point, and we came to the compromise option that the sludge should be again if it meets the parameters on which we agreed that it should be in practice feasible, applicable back to agricultural land. So, please, nicely, don't take the responsibility of the Department of Agriculture for something that, logically, we don't have a responsibility under the law of competence. So I guess that's the thing that's been said here, that's what's important. But once again, I would like to go back to the debate, to the report that is published here. I must refer to some of the things that have been said in terms of agrarian foreign trade. On the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, according to individual items, including tobacco, wheat etc., the entire result of agrarian foreign trade for last year, including quartal results, is published. It's traceable with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u35	Thank you. Since I don't see anyone else coming forward... I note one point of fact, Mr. Šrámek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u36	Thank you, I don't want to delay. All I want to do is divide that profit into plant production, animal production, and then I'm interested in the tobacco industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u37	Thank you. I therefore wonder if anyone else is joining the general debate. Since I don't see anyone, in that case... There was a question, I ask the Minister whether he will answer now or later in writing? Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u38	Thank you. I confess that in this report, I believe that the distribution of income from plant and animal production is, but if Mr Šrámek insists, I will be happy to answer it in writing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u39	Okay, thank you. I do not see anyone else reporting to the general debate, in which case I am ending it and asking whether you want to take the final word before a detailed debate - the Minister or the rapporteur. It's not like that. We will proceed to the debate in detail. I ask who's applying for a word. It is important, Mr rapporteur, that you read the motion for a resolution in detail. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u40	Mr. Manager, thank you for the floor. [[Laughs in the hall.]] I would recommend that colleagues take note of the 2014 report on the state of agriculture of the Czech Republic. Thank you for taking that under advisement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-26-ps2013-047-03-004-209.u41	Thank you. It is a motion for a resolution, yes. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. I see no one, in which case I conclude a detailed debate. Here too, I ask the rapporteur and the Minister whether they want to take the final floor. It's not like that. The motion for a resolution has been read. I will repeat it for order: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic takes note of the report on the state of agriculture of the Czech Republic in 2014." I'll call in my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby to come and vote. I'm also registering a request for your check-out. So I'm going to check you out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards again. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for a resolution, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 189. 121 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 110, against none. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. Thank you, both the rapporteur and the Minister, and I am done discussing this point. I'm opening another point, and that's it.
