ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-003-219.u1	219. Information of the member of the European Commission Věra Jourová Please, Miss Euro Commissioner. [[She awaits the arrival of the Euro Commissioner.]] The Commissioner is present and I ask her to take the floor. Please, Commissioner, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-003-219.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, let me begin by thanking you for the opportunity to speak today, because it is an honor for me and also an opportunity not to give you a witness about what I have done in the Commission for two years, perhaps some other time, but rather to share with you today what the European Union has done for the Czechs, what the Čech have given the European Union and how we should continue. This should be quite a general talk about Europe. I think that we agree that the European Union, and we have always considered it such a phrase, has been and is a successful project that has and is meant to maintain peace in Europe. Today these words are gaining special urgency and I think that this is one of the strong reasons for us Čech to support the Union and also be a valid member and a strong, positive voice. You know, right now, there's a summit coming up that's gonna deal with mine. two fundamental questions, namely migration and the question of how to go further for brexit. I think these are questions that are particularly important because they are breaking values. That we must tell each other what ideas we have about shared values in Europe. I know about this and, of course, I follow reports from the Czech Republic that the Czech Republic, like some other countries, has a critical vote against the European Union. Some are fair, some are less. I have to say that I often struggle with this myself in my work, that the thinking of the whole, how Europe sees common things, is sometimes more distant from the way we Čech see it. And like me, when I'm in this position, I have to force myself to see things from a whole point of view, so I'd like to ask you too. Which doesn't mean they should shut down critical voices if they're on point and if they're based on facts. The way of thinking in Europe, in Brussels, is really in something shifted from Czech to Czech. And I have to tell you, one of my frustrations in Brussels is that I am not capable of my own in Brussels. explain the size of Jára Cimrman. I would like to talk about the benefits Europe has. And, of course, right at the beginning, I have to say that I personally believe that we are not so-called because of the money in Europe, as we sometimes hear from some Czech representatives. I'm from these announcements that we're in the Union for that money, always surprised and saddened because, as I say, it's not my opinion. At some point, I returned to Václav Havel's speech, which he had before joining the Union. And it clearly states: "If we join the European Union only as a club of prosperous rich countries to be prosperous and rich, it is not enough. It can't just be about the material advantages. Europe simply can't just pay off." I would now like to focus on things that are so-called counted, those that are expressive in economic categories. And I will return at the end of my speech to what I consider to be the value that lies for us in Europe. I'll start with the money. You know that I originally worked for almost 20 years in the area of European funds, so I can only be pleased to note the huge financial effect that European funds, i.e. the funds from the contributions of the Member States that have covered the European budget to the Czech Republic, have produced a huge effect. In 2015, the net position was, i.e. that surplus, over 150 billion. CZK, almost 4% of GDP. From the beginning of our membership to the middle of this year it is in total almost 630 billion. Crowns. That's the extra money we got from Brussels. This means, in the context of a kind of European solidarity, when when I say it completely banally, it takes on the rich and gives to the poor. Thus, thanks to the Structural Funds, Czech GDP today is 4 percent higher than it would have been otherwise, which is a lot given that growth has averaged less than 1% over the last ten years. Several results: More than 300 km of new roads were built, over 2 000 km of roads were renovated and 370 km of railway lines were upgraded. Nearly half a million Czech citizens have been newly connected to better sewage treatment plants. And once again, I can name a number of very good projects by working in that business, and I believe that you, too, when you think about it, see these things around you. [[12.00 hours]] Another benefit is clearly opening the space for home entrepreneurs, expanding their sales opportunities. The trade surplus is growing, last year almost 7 percent of GDP. And domestic businesses have demonstrated their resilience as part of the European Union's single market. There is room to move the value chain upwards to create more domestic value added, including through greater innovation, to increase internationalisation of small and medium-sized enterprises and to a growing share of services. As I stand before you here, I can share another positive thing with you. I am very proud of Czech businesses, especially small and medium-sized, because they are very well promoted on the European market. I'm also in charge of part of the agenda in the digital single market. I have very good figures on how Czech companies are promoting on this common digital market and how they will promote better if we remove some barriers. I'm proud of Seznam.cz . My colleagues and people in this area ask me very often how it is possible that Google does not have most of the market in the Czech Republic. What's the list? And I say: this is a Czech company that has pushed through and which expands, which does very good things. Two days ago I met a young Czech businessman who is developing a company that is already successful in six European countries today. This young man from Brno told me: please tell them not to gamble with the Union, we need a common market without barriers so that we can do business and grow. This is a reflection of young Czech brains, which we should also help by not killing the common European market. Another asset. Favourite destination for foreign direct investment, which became the Czech Republic right after the entry. If you remember, the rating rose and investors' confidence to come into business and settle in the Czech Republic increased enormously. Why? Because the Czech Republic, as a member of the European Union, has become a country with a stable legal environment and a country where they could count on unhappiness surprises. Employment rate. I do not think that I need to calculate the figures, how the European Union and I have helped us increase employment, to increase qualifications, to strengthen the Czech workforce, to give it the opportunity to travel to Europe and to make money outside. I was personally involved in several projects where we focused on strengthening the Czech workforce. And for that, we need Schengen. Schengen, which is bowed many times in the context of the migration crisis. Schengen, for which it is fighting at the external border of the Union. Schengen, which also allows Czech people, Czech citizens, Czech students, to travel around Europe and find new opportunities and sometimes even to return and return to the Republic, what they put into them during their studies. These are all extremely positive things. I am glad that I recently pushed for the removal of major bureaucratic barriers to people going abroad, to another Member State, so that they no longer have to submit notarized documents. It is a huge relief for people who are moving all over Europe. I have given some positive examples of the influence that we have because of our membership. We must play an important role in Europe. It doesn't have to be the role of someone who has 2 percent of the population. We don't have to stick to that limit at all. We can be much more important. It is a great challenge for Czech diplomacy. I think that nowadays many people who so-called see into it understand the Czech Republic as a country that can be affected by a very rational, not black and white vision, a Central European country that can bridge the dialogue between the West and the East. I very much wish that Czech diplomacy could handle this, and it has a great chance. I think that the importance of the Czech Republic may paradoxically increase in this area at a time called Europe after Brexit, when we know that the departure of Great Britain will mean some regrouping of forces in Europe. Let us be a strong voice in such a forcefully regrouped Europe. I would like to comment on the fact that we cannot only see these things positively. I experienced such a tradition especially at the beginning that the Czech party very often rejected proposals that we do not want this, goodbye. I think this is also improving, Czech representatives come to Brussels with counter-proposals and promote their approval. I would like to say that I find it unfair that this Commission, which I am a member of, is being attacked and criticized for spewing out a senseless amount of nonsensical regulations. We have a password to regulate big things where we have strong competence. I often consider and test all the proposals for new regulations that come to me from different sides in my portfolio, not just from the European Parliament or from national parliaments. The test is to address a Europe-wide serious problem that will have a positive impact on normal people and businesses, and which is also captured by a very strong European competence. This is a test that we are submitting to all the proposals, and I am speaking here for my fellow Members from the Commission. I will not tire you of the numbers, but indeed the number of new proposals for new regulations that have emerged from this Commission is much smaller than the Commission's supply of European legislative space in the past. There's one more thing. We clearly said in the beginning that national parliaments are a crucial communication link for us. That is why I am here today, which is why 15 Commissioners have already been here, not in plenary, but in committees, since the beginning of the mandate. That is why I personally go to national parliaments, which gave me a yellow card for the European Prosecutor. I go there repeatedly because I want dialogue and I want to make sure it's a good proposal. I think it's about mutual respect and respect. The last thing I want to say about, say, institutional matters. I would like to appeal to all the parties that will be putting candidates for the European elections in two and a half years to put the Commissioner candidate on number one and to start preparing this person now. I can assure you that this man has a lot to do. And I'm not just saying that because I have the authentic experience myself, and I still remember the very hard beginnings. I think people are right when they say: the Commission is unelected. I think it is necessary for the candidates to explain during the elections what their idea of Europe is and what they will do there. Not what they're going to do for their country, because you know that commissioners aren't allowed to go to their country, but I think that elections should be investigated and that we should know who we're sending. This is my appeal, which may not result in a legislative change in the electoral system. It's up to the gentlemen's agreement of the parties. Now for the wrong things. We're all annoyed by bureaucracy, the length of processes and so on. The European Union is rightly criticised. Personally, I am behind a very courageous reform of the processes of the institutions; personally, I will always promote the abolition of Strasbourg as a second place for the European Parliament's negotiations. I think it's time to look at the efficiency of how we work, the criticism is absolutely appropriate. At the same time, let's face it, this criticism is appropriate, even when it comes to state systems. Even here I remember being secretary, I was desperate, I don't really know anyone who didn't say it was wrong. [[12.10 hours]] It very much affects me when the Union is criticized for regulating the so-called 'Union'. Bullshit. Mr. President likes to give the good news that I told him in private that I'm working on a directive on the quality of ink for printers. I'm telling you, it's not true, and such criticism is very unfair. Europe needs a large number of technical standards for the common market, but at the same time, Europe is dealing with a lot of things that are to bring about a huge shift forward, such as energy savings, but it needs household synergies. And to say that Europe is dealing with one light bulb of one household is simply demagogy non plus ultra. But I think it needs to be explained better. I would like to mention a few of the problems and crises that we are all dealing with. The theme of migration is complex. I believe I'll get a question for that. I would like to say that it is necessary to take a critical look at the proposals that the Union has prepared, because these proposals are much wider than just so-called. The quota that was held here, and not only here, was a heated debate. There are a number of very serious decisions and shifts, whether it is the strengthening of external border control by creating a European Border and Coast Guard Agency, whether it is a very crucial start-up to return policy, whether it is the EU's actions outside the border, the Euro-Turkish Deal or now the new activity that we are aiming at in a similar spirit towards Africa. I'm not gonna calculate everything. I'm just gonna stop by the unfortunate quota. You may have noticed that I have come up with a unique voice within the Commission, when I wanted to reconsider an automatic mechanism that would allocate refugees to Member States. Nobody has bothered me, I have been free to say this opinion, I have said it to the media and I stand by it, and I am glad that today this thing has shifted towards talking about voluntary action by Member States in the context of solidarity, and I am very glad that in this proposal it is full of respect for the sovereignty of the states that have two fundamental roles in this matter: to ensure security for their people and people who are coming and to ensure the integration of those who are coming and are to remain in the territory. I think it is essential that we do not interfere with the sovereignty of states here. That's why I went against the quota. It was not from the position that the Czech Republic had a different opinion on this. I wanted to comment on this from the point of view of the basic concept of division of competences and respect for national sovereignty. Otherwise, I think that migration is such a fundamental problem that it really cannot be addressed from a national level. I would therefore like to call on all those who have something to say about this to contribute with positive proposals on how to deal with this matter together from the European level. I could talk for a very long time here, and I don't want to stretch the speech too much, I know there's room for questions. But the question of security, the question of terrorism, the question of deradication, the question of recruiting jihadists on the Internet, these are the things that I have largely on my desk within my portfolio. These are all very serious matters and I am convinced that Europe is coming up with fundamental proposals while helping Member States to combat terrorism. You will soon approve the directive or the incorporation of the directive against terrorism in this House. I would very much ask for a quick trial, because it is something that we urgently need. I personally advocate that the security authorities have electronic systems for the timely sharing of information, fingerprints of convicted persons, not only citizens of Member States but also citizens of third countries. I think these are all steps in the right direction. From my portfolio, I would like to mention the proposal to manage the European Prosecutor. For me, this is an absolute priority in this semester, where I would also like the Czech Republic to see the European Prosecutor as the only possible tool - the only possible tool - for effective investigation and prosecution of cross-border large fraud on value added tax. We have a conservative estimate that Europe loses 50 billion each year. EUR just because international gangs and international networks have not been able to follow for years created, for years operating with impunity in Europe, for years laughing at us that we are unable to come up with an effective tool. I believe that the European Prosecutor is. At the same time, it is intended to investigate large corruption cases and frauds on structural funds and on agricultural funds. I think, and it is also a kind of symbolism for me, that this is such a strong subject for me, that it is very good that I am trying to enforce the European Prosecutor in the greatest possible competence. Consumer rights is another area that I am in charge of. Reflection from Brussels towards Čechy. Dear friends, Czech consumers are still the patient ones who can't report for their own who get their wood cut on their heads. I think it takes a little education and information. That's what I'm trying to do. I'm trying to reconcile the rules on online commerce. I was talking earlier about very promising Czech entrepreneurs who are really waiting for this because there is enormous potential. If we do not remove various systems for claims and termination of contracts, people will be afraid not only to trade abroad and to exploit the entire potential of the European common market, but also to be afraid to buy there. This is my assignment for next year to promote the reconciliation of terms and conditions for online trading. Very briefly. I've had two successes since I pushed through a major data protection reform. Now I will try not to have a child spilled in the Member States with a bathtub and create a monster that will crush entrepreneurs with great burdens. You may have also heard that I have reached endless negotiations with the United States on data protection for European citizens on American territory. Ladies and gentlemen, forgive me, I had to give myself a little credit. We are working together with the Member States, with the European Parliament, with all those who have a positive mind, to look for effective solutions to all the crises that run into Europe. Many of them come from the outside, we made a series inside. I would ask you to be constructive and positive and come up with a strong voice with good proposals. At the same time, in the light of the migration crisis, terrorism, all these fundamental things sometimes make us deal with things that are not so important. I talked about it before. I say we must not resign to environmental protection, to consumer protection, to the many positive things Europe needs. We must continue with these things and not stop. We think that today we have a duty to drag Europe through all these crises so that it does not suffer on a global scale, and, of course, global competition is another major challenge for us. I could talk here about the current negotiations on the Euro-Canadian Trade Cooperation Treaty, which is being held in negotiations with the Member States. That's one of the things that we need to push through, and I hope it does. I said at the beginning that I would calculate the benefits of the EU, which is called. can be quantified, economic benefits. I tried. Now let me stop for a moment at the fact that Europe must not just pay off, because it cannot just be about money. With everything we do, we will always be in a dilemma between pragmatism and idealism. I call it a dilemma between crowded stomachs and a clear conscience. I think that this is also an undertone of the current debate in Czech society about the Dalai Lama. [[12.20 hours]] For me, it is very important that Europe is not only about the money, but also about the things that Jan Patočka has said about, and has constantly asked what it is worth suffering for. I think it's the values that sometimes become clichés if they keep going off the rails. For me, Europe means defending the dignity and freedom of man, the rule of law, equality. Believe me, when I started in the Commission and got the issue of equality on the agenda, I was very nervous because I remember well the time in my 25th year ending when we had forced equality, equality imposed by a totalitarian state. And I am very vigilant in Europe, because even forced equality overstretched by political correctness is something that we must oppose. For me, that bane is equality before the law, and I repeat again, the dignity of every individual person and his freedom. I think that this totalitarian experience is something that today the Čech and other states, which became democratic states, can contribute to a common Europe in 1989. It's an indistinguishable experience. It's impossible to illustrate it completely in detail if someone doesn't experience it. I'm trying. I am trying to explain that, even in some of the things we are doing in Europe today, I see the elements on which we should be vigilant. Let me stop at one more value that is strangely neglected for me, both in the Czech Republic and in Brussels, and that is true. It may be such an abstract theme, an abstract concept, many will say that the truth is relative, but I think that if we don't try to paint the situation pink, if we feed the myths, if we purposely lie - and this applies to both Brussels and Prague - we not only behave immorally, but at the same time it is dangerous, considering the situation we are in today in Europe. So let me finish my speech today with a quote - a certified quote - Ferdinand Peroutka from the presence of 1927: "The lie that will succeed produces new lies. We must spend everything to ensure that lying is not without risk and that convicted liars are built on the pillow of contempt." Next, Peroutka asks: "Does this society have the strength to make liars feel their anger, or does it have the strength to still feel anger over lies? " Questions more valid today than ever. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-003-219.u3	Good afternoon, honourable Members. Thank you for your speech to Commissioner Věra Jourová and I am opening a debate in which I have three applications with priority rights, namely Mr Marek Černoch, Mr Petr Fiala and Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. I therefore ask Mr Marek Černoch to take the floor. Properly logged in is Ondřej Benešík. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-003-219.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I would like to start by saying that I am sorry that there is no other one here outside the two ministers, because the report from the European Union is, I think, so important that it deserves the presence of other members of the government. This would also give me a bit of criticism of the procedure that we have been familiar with your speech, Commissioner. It was on Tuesday when we learned that you were going to perform, or that you were asking for the opportunity to speak in the Chamber of Deputies. When we asked what topic, no one was able to answer us because everyone was saying - we don't know. I consider this to be a mistake, because the subject is so comprehensive and serious that it would be good to have time to prepare for it, not to be two days when there is no possibility within that time and the work is really in some way to prepare for it. I must say that I am disappointed by your speech because you started your speech by being proud of the Czech Republic - if I cut it short now to give room to other speakers - that you are proud of the Czech Republic, but from what you said, the defence of the European Union, the defence of European institutions, people like the head of the European Commission Juncker, who, from my point of view, made a huge contribution to, for example, the departure of the Great Britain from the European Union, because how he behaved, how he said a few days before the referendum, that the Brit will hurt, whether they stay or leave. If I were Brit, I would have given my vote at that point because I certainly wouldn't want a man who wasn't elected to say something was going to hurt me because I think Britain was a very strong country that had a big word in Europe. It's a shame. That's the thing that I think I'm most interested in. I do not mean, of course, just Mr Juncker, I mean, for example, Commissioner Mogherini, who is responsible for security and migration, addressing the migration crisis. She was here about three quarters of a year ago, and we had a chance to talk to her. I must say that when you ask the Commissioner, one of the highest people in the European Union, how migration crises will look, the answers are: I do not know, we will see. When I asked how he felt about the sexual assaults that took place in Cologne on New Year's Eve, she laughed, so we don't overreact too much, that girls are smacking each other's butts. This is not the answer of the Supreme Commissioner in Europe in the context of immigration. I was there, so it's not secondhand, it's not from the media. I regard this not only as an outrage and an insult to the people of Europe, but as incompetence within its position and position. You said you were proud of Czech companies, medium, small, businessmen. On the contrary, those with whom I have spoken criticize not only the Czech government but also the people who are in the European Union. They say, "We would like to, but there is more and more bureaucracy." There is no way to remove bureaucracy, there is rather the way that barriers to trade, export and import are becoming more and more and that the European Union works in trade rather for the chosen ones, in which I regret to have to give them the truth in the context of the experience that I have also had in dealing with European institutions and in the context of the various seminars and negotiations that are taking place in Brussels. When you said there were 370 km of roads, there were regional elections recently, and one of the main topics of regional elections was roads. So I would like to ask where the 370 km of roads or motorways are here in the Czech Republic. They're not here. On the contrary, we're dealing with, or we're going to solve, a problem with a dangerous section of the highway, with the fact that if money comes to us in the Czech Republic, they're probably coming somewhere else than they should be coming. Where, that's a question. But I'm sure there's a lot of money coming to the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, somewhere along the way, the money is being lost. [[12.30 hours]] And of course, these are also various non-profits, which are becoming more and more, and which very often draw money on things that are definitely not part of the work force of people who say: we want to take care of those who need it, and so that we can work, so here is created some non-profit organization. There are a lot of nonprofit organizations today, and they're mostly nonprofits, or not mostly, but there are a lot of nonprofit organizations where money just disappears. I'm afraid so. As regards the right to equality before the law. I must say, then, that I will ask the question, if that is what you mean, Commissioner, seriously. Equality before the law is what I think any reasonable and intelligent person would want terribly and what should be here, but equality before the law is definitely not. The enforcement of the law is certainly not for everyone. And I think anyone who even thinks about it a little bit will be right. And that would be what I think should really work, because if we're talking about the rule of law, if we're talking about a legal society, the law is something that every person should really have a right to without the position he's in. But unfortunately, it's not working. Migration. Today we had a committee of European affairs, where the Prime Minister was before the negotiations in the European Union. We asked a lot of questions, some of them we got answers, some of them we didn't get answers. I'm really dealing with the subject. And I don't want any populist talk right now, but I really go to Europe, I go to seminars, I go to conferences, and the reality is completely different. Until today, the European Union has not been able to do almost anything outside the agreement with Turkey to deal with the migration crisis. It's been two years since we talked about hotspots. It's almost not working to this day. And today we have heard: it should work and we have to do everything we can to make it work. Two years is when the words came out in Brussels: from October it will work and everything will be fine. It's not working. The same goes for a common border guard, as a colleague of mine said today, the Coast Guard. She was mentioned a year and a half ago. A year and a half ago, we were convinced that it would go now and that it would and that it would work. A year and a half are talking about it, and today we have learned that it will have 1,500 people on the length of the border, the external border. A thousand five hundred people are nothing. I'll take that as a start with it spreading. But to this day, there is no effective form, because even if a border guard dumps someone, anyway, where is he going to take them? He's gonna take him to Europe, and it's actually gonna work the same way. Regardless of the problems that will arise between states, between Greece and Italy. To this day, unfortunately, it is hindering some cooperation, when one state will do something and the other will refuse to consecrate it. So I certainly don't think that the European Union would be effective, that it should continue with that system that works to this day and that hasn't changed even after the brexit exclamation point, when a lot of people in the Czech Republic are really saying that they don't want to be in the European Union today. If there was at least a hint of a change in the system, if there was a hint that it would be done differently. And on the committee of European affairs, you said there were no directives and regulations. They are. We see it there, we get it, and very often there's nothing we can do about it, and it's classified as just information. But if it's like information, then at that point, we think of it as some kind of regulation. If this is going through you, that is the second thing, but here in the Czech Republic on a committee that is responsible for European politics, it is only within a regulation that can be done. And all the way to the end. The European Union, in the direction that it will probably follow, because no change can be seen, so I certainly do not think it would be an asset if it is the way it is now. We just got back from the Council of Europe. Although it is not the executive power, the European Union's executive institution, it is an institution that has great weight and great influence, and where the resolution has been approved that we are not obliged to do so, but to use and support the immigration crisis of people from Africa and the Middle East for the population wave in the European Union and the filling of jobs. Instead of creating a truly national policy to meet young people, to give them a reason to have children and, above all, to be sure that they will feed them, the Council of Europe comes with this resolution. The colleagues who were there with me were witnesses, we were the only ones against. The rest of the Members applauded and thanked the ostensibly for the motion for such a resolution. I consider that a journey to hell and not to the values you spoke of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-003-219.u5	I thank Mr Marek Černoch. Now Mr Stanislav Grospič's factual comment, then the duly signed-up President Petr Fiala. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-003-219.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Of course, I will not delay, and I would like to ask you, through the Commissioner, or to ask her some of the questions that led me to think about in her speech. Unlike you colleagues, I was not surprised by her performance, nor was I surprised that the thematic, content focus of her performance was not announced, because I think it is consistent with her profile and her focus and factual work in the European Commission. I would like to ask whether it is actually defending the national interests of the Czech Republic, whether it is interested in seriously addressing the emigration crisis, which may potentially threaten the Czech Republic as well, whether it is interested in ending the conflicts of war that have provoked the United States of America with the active participation of Western European powers, including the European Union, and whether it also feels more related to the European Union or the Czech Republic at this point. If otherwise, then, of course, it is a very good picture that voters can make about the YES movement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-003-219.u7	Thank you. I have other factual points here, Mr Benešík and Mr Gabal. So, gentlemen, my colleague Benešík, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-003-219.u8	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, honourable Members of the Government, only very technically. What was asked here by a previous speaker, Mr. Grospič. The Commissioner cannot defend the interests of the Czech Republic because she is the Commissioner. It would be good for us to study who is responsible for what before we enter into this discussion. The Commissioner and every Commissioner, by definition, are to defend the interests of the Union as a whole, not of the Czech national interests. The fact that it is delegated by the Czech Government, supported by the Czech Parliament and finally approved by the European Parliament, which represents the citizens of the European Union does not mean that it should defend the interests of the Czech Republic. It's just technically impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-003-219.u9	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Gabal's point of view now. The Minister also made a point of fact? Well, in that case, Mr Gabal, Mr Grospič, and then the Minister of Defence. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-003-219.u10	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Commissioner, I would rather ask two questions, I will not continue to lament here. [[A voice from the diaper: This is not a factual remark.]] That's the real thing. I would like to ask the Commissioner: more detailed information on the progress of negotiations with the United States on the trade agreement. That's one thing. Second, the procedure for the reorganisation of the European Commission's directive. And I will take the third: if there is a new form of cooperation with national parliaments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-003-219.u11	Now, I would ask my fellow Members not to abuse factual remarks on the debate where people are duly registered. Now, therefore, Mr Grospič's factual remark, then the Minister of Defence. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-003-219.u12	I don't think I'm gonna use it. And I can virtually imagine that a Member of the European Commission must also primarily express the European Commission's policy, but that is the key, after all, when every Member State of the European Commission delegates its Commissioner to this European Commission to take account, among other things, of the interests of the State for which it is sent there. And that is the key to this question. And if there was a question of the TTIP Treaty, then of course I wonder how far these negotiations have progressed or how far these negotiations are dead.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-003-219.u13	Thank you. Now Minister Stropnický, then again Mr Benešík. Please really... On a point of fact, Minister, there are two minutes. A factual point responds to the debate. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-003-219.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll try to make it. I am glad to hear from the Commissioner who spoke here. I mean, above all, that the EU is not just the Structural Funds. Maybe we should finally admit that we are the EU. And let's think about our rhetoric and think about the pre-accession interviews or the negotiations at all. He didn't sneak up on us, folks. It took a terrible job, and in the end the work was crowned with success, however we said we would dissolve like a sugar cube, however we said we would sweeten it for Europe, however different through interpreters and poor English we taught it what the European Union should do. Even the fact that our membership does not have an alternative, the common phrase that appears in connection with our membership in the EU seems quite charming to me. It's as if a man had taken the bride down the aisle and said, "Yes, I am marrying you because I haven't found anyone better. That seems pretty weird to me. She's imperfect. Of course. The European Union is imperfect, as we are imperfect, perhaps here with a few exceptions, such as the world is imperfect. But perhaps our ambition, and the necessary ambition, is to make the most of our contribution to improving ourselves, to win allies for our reasonable proposals, to be able to acquire them and to be able to formulate and define them at all. I hope that this is the position of the Czech Republic as an active member of the European Union, because I would not like us to want to be some independent, so-called independent sultanate. I really wouldn't like that. And I would like someone to say no to the European Union - so what does he say yes to? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-003-219.u15	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Benešík's final factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-003-219.u16	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the Government, Madam Commissioner. Through Mr President to Mr Grospič. It would really be good for us to get to know who is responsible for what, who is responsible for what, before we discuss such a discussion. The interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic in the institutions of the European Union are primarily defended by the Prime Minister at the European Council - after all, we had with him before, and therefore we abstained in this meeting, before the European Council the Committee on European Affairs - and ministers at the Council of Ministers, or at the Council of the European Union, where he sits in 12 formations. It really is. Citizens' interests are to be defended by the European Parliament and the interests of the Union as a whole by the European Commission. That's just how it's divided, that's how it should be. So to claim that the Euro Commissioner sent by the Czech Republic, or the Swedish Commissioner sent by the Kingdom of Sweden, is to defend the Kingdom of Sweden, and the Czech Commissioner is to defend the Czech Republic, does not really correspond to reality. I apologize for this political insert, but I considered it important in this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-003-219.u17	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. We will return to the debate by giving a speech with the priority right of President Petr Fiala. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-003-219.u18	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, of course I did not know what and why Commissioner Jourová wanted to speak here. It's not clear to me even after her performance. Perhaps it could only be understood that the European Commission has given the Commissioners an assignment to perform in national parliaments with some kind of advertising in advance for what the European Union is doing and what the European Commission is doing. That's the only way I can explain it. We have heard here, and I have to say that I am really disappointed by this, a large number of phrases in a kind of Eurolanguage that is hard to track. I think that the degree of generality with which Commissioner Jourová has spoken here has been higher than when the Prime Minister talks about European matters, and it reaches a high degree of generality. I have taken a few lessons from this, for which I am pleased, for example, that a member of the European Commission is free to express his opinion and nothing will happen to him, that is really good. Furthermore, I took the incentive to criticize constructively and to look positively at these things. That's what we do, of course. Then, for example, I learned that there is a problem with migration, that we need to address the problem in a pan-European way, that we need to look for solutions and to get involved in the Europe-wide debate. So I assure you that we are of course involved in this Europe-wide debate, but that the debate is also going on quite specifically, and maybe we should talk about the specifics. And to avoid sticking to your chosen form and staying on the surface and general reservations, I will show you on your portfolio, where I think the European Commission, and therefore the European Union, is going in the wrong direction, and what we blame it for. And I want to make it clear, and I will highlight it several times and repeat that when someone criticizes the current direction of the European Union and European integration, that does not mean that he does not want to be in the European Union, that he wants to break it, that he has another alternative. No. We are just saying repeatedly and over the long term that the European Union needs to be reformed, that it is not going in the right direction. And now, unfortunately, the development is right. But when I look at what you are dealing with in your portfolio as a member of the European Commission, I have an example of what should not be done in Europe. You said: My main topic and priority is the establishment of the European Prosecutor's Office. And I, along with many other people in Europe, many parliaments and countries, have the view that such an institution is completely useless, only to complicate the institutional structure of the European Union, that there are no conditions for this in Europe, that it is another weakening of national powers, and above all it is an example of the direction that should not be followed in Europe. We have an EU unit for judicial cooperation, we have the European Police Office, we have the European Anti-Fraud Office. And all of a sudden we say, well, these authorities can't handle it, they may not have enough competence or something doesn't work there, so the solution is that we're gonna set up another office. This is precisely the wrong way that the European Commission is not supposed to go and which leads people in European countries to feel increasingly alienated from the European Union. I intend to use this essentially left-wing popular term here. Yes, they're stolen. And they will continue to be. Because you are wrong, Commissioner, and there is no unnecessary regulation in Europe. Of course they are. And we don't have to talk about light bulbs, we can talk about dozens of other examples that I don't want to delay right now, but which I will be happy to present to you, where the European Union regulates total nonsense to the last detail. And, of course, this also raises people's discontent and criticism. [[12.50 hours]] But I see much bigger problems in the development that I'm talking about here, in the development - that well, so something went wrong when we integrated it, it doesn't work, so the solution isn't that we disintegrate it again, which would have occurred to every person thinking with common sense when it doesn't work. No, that's how we're going to integrate it even more, and we're going to create other integrated authorities to sort it out. Well, of course he won't. It only creates a system in which there is no living in Europe, which suffocates us all and overwhelms all the positive things that the European Union undoubtedly carries with it in the eyes of citizens. When the Brexit was mentioned here and that we should comment on the way we imagine the European Union, I must say - there are clear ideas that have been on the table for a long time, we are defending them. We, and not just us, our factions in the European Parliament long ago came up with the idea of reform. But all that is happening is that it is not being discussed, that the reform has not even started in any way, that we have stayed at European level with phrases and that those steps that would help the European Union to make it operational and interesting for national states and citizens again are not taking those steps. Of course, those steps include abandoning the dogma of an ever closer Union, which, of course, was still sounding from your speech, at least I felt it there. These steps also include the equalisation of countries outside and within the euro area. Of course, these are also steps to stop integrating other and other areas. Right now - and I might also be interested in your opinion - the European Commission's proposal for further integration of asylum and migration policy is on the table, which secretly assumes, among other things, the integration of social policy, which I consider virtually impossible. But if it's successful, it's extremely dangerous. But these reforms also include, for example, the depoliticisation of the Commission, which is one of the things that the functioning of the European Union would certainly lead to. I think that more and more important - and now I am turning to my colleagues in this hall - more than talking about such general advertising speeches in favour of the European Commission, it would be useful for us to talk here about our Czech idea of what the reformed European Union is supposed to look like. What we want to promote together, what we will do, how we will proceed in order to achieve a common Czech national position, which we first have to agree on. And I agree with one thing the Commissioner said. That the strength of the state within the European Union may not correspond to a percentage or population, but may also be higher. Yes, it can be even higher if the state knows what it wants if it has a clear and clear foreign and European policy, if the key political forces agree on what the Czech national interests are and if they are promoted by everyone. I have repeatedly urged the Prime Minister to hold such a debate. Let us then, within the framework of the debate on the future of the European Union, be active, whether we know what we want, so that we can stand firm for national interests, so that we can all stand by it. This has not happened, and I am afraid that, as part of the discussions on the reform of the European Union, this will not be the Czech Republic, which will be able to say what its interests are, what the Union is imagining, what I want to achieve in the Union. Ladies and gentlemen, I can't help but think the Minister of Defense here said - we heard what we heard, and I'm glad we heard it. I am not happy, but I do not know what the Minister of Defence heard when most of the Commissioner's speech was not there at all. How are we supposed to have a meaningful debate about the European Union - and such a debate could start with perhaps not a very specific speech by the Commissioner - when there is one of the members of the government for most of the debate? That's no way to get to anything. In this regard, I am responsible for the fact that we cannot better promote our interests in Europe, that we do not even know what those interests are, that we are unable to have a position that corresponds to what the Czech Republic wants. If we don't even discuss it here, if we don't talk about it, if there's no meeting, then we're not gonna have a position, and we're all gonna pay for it. So my appeal is also to the members of the government's political parties to try to convince their representatives in the government to hold such a debate, to speak with one voice, to agree on the basics. 'Cause otherwise it's gonna be bad. For the Civil Democratic Party, I say, we are ready for this, we have a specific position, we have concrete proposals. We want the European Union, there is no alternative for us without the European Union. But we want a European Union that is being reformed and able to survive. The European Union, as Commissioner Jourová has just presented to us, we do not really want to further develop such a European Union, because it is the European Union that is about to collapse into itself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-003-219.u19	I thank Mr Petr Fial. Let me make one more apology. From 14.30 to 19.00, Mr Leoš Heger apologizes and Mr Jiří Štětina apologizes for tomorrow. Now, the de facto remark made by Minister Pelikán. After that, Mr Stanjura's priority right. Please, Minister, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-003-219.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Contrary to Mr Fiala, honourable Members, I do not think that the Commissioner's speech would be poorly targeted or too general. On the contrary, I believe that Mr Grospič's response has shown us that he has been very well targeted and very much needed. That maybe he should have been even more general. Because, indeed, before we think about what the European Union should be like, how it should be shaped or reformed in some detail, we need to think about how much we want the European Union to be. And the remark, which immediately highlighted national interests and even wanted the European Commissioner to promote national interests, showed that we are not quite clear on this. I would also like to stress that if the Commissioner had actually said that she was defending national interests in the Commission, she might as well have signed a resignation, because that is exactly what she must not do. I think we should be grateful for that, because these commissioners are 28 and we don't want the others defending their national interests. We want them to defend the interests of the European Union, because, and that is what I want to emphasise and what I end up with, our national interest is the functioning European Union. And that is what the Commissioner is supposed to take care of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-003-219.u21	Thank you, Minister Pelikán. We will continue the debate. Mr. Chairman of ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. I warn you, Mr President, I will have to interrupt you at 13:00 anyway. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-003-219.u22	You don't have to, but you can. Let's talk frankly. The law doesn't say we're done at 1:00, but customary law is. My previous speakers have already said - the shame of the so-called pro-European government. I did not like the Commissioner's speech, but I would like to debate it. Not this undignified. That we get 38 minutes for the debate, she won't have time to react. What's the point, what's the debate? At least I suggested that the original idea was that the Commissioner would tell us hers and leave. And we'll be making a report to the Czech News Agency in 2015. And that's it over and over again. We've been offering you a debate since Brexit, and nothing. Pro-European Prime Minister - I apologize to him today, clearly - went to the European Council. It's Tusk's fault who probably called it in, isn't it? Okay. But the government has 17 members, although some are not Members. How the minister here trains us, what we should listen to and what we don't. So where are the 15 members of the pro-European government to have a really serious debate? A general flosculi, Minister, that we want the European Union that works, we will all sign it. Except maybe one or two clubs that say they don't want to be there. So what? Shall we go home? News of the Czech News Agency, and we're gonna believe that's gonna happen on our own, in Brussels? What is the position of the Czech Government? Look at this meeting. I recommend to the Commissioner that her people take a look at our press. Every other material is written - unless you ratify by tomorrow, the day after tomorrow... threatens us... We're still in danger. Infringement, fine... And we don't even ask - do we need it? Is that good for Czech citizens? The arguments of ministers who are all scared when they arrive in Brussels - what if someone tells us something in Brussels? But we're supposed to have it the other way around. We're offering a debate to promote. Please, I was still in the army during communism, and I know what a political training team is. So who wants to train the communists that the Commissioner can, don't do it behind the counter, but somewhere individually. But let's be realistic. If some of you, such as Minister Pelikán or President Benešík, believe that the Euro Commissioner, especially the old countries, does not defend the smart, intelligent, hidden, unopened interests of their Member States, they live in a different Europe than we do. [[13.00 hours]] This morning we discussed, by the way, detail - French minimum wage for Czech drivers. A clear violation of the fundamental principles of freedom of movement of persons, goods, capital and services. So what? How many times has the European Commission dealt with this? How many times have you dealt with this? What did you do in it? And nothing happens, and our companies pay fines. But we all want it, and so do we, but I iron it a little bit, the European Union that works. But we want to have a debate here with us about what it means. How it's supposed to work. And it's not like we're gonna wait to ratify, and then we're gonna read in those materials, and here we're gonna hear from the microphone, well, we have to do this because we're facing a fine. Those funds that keep threatening us. You don't do this, we don't give you the money. Checking out the funds. I think 60 percent is focused on finding a mistake and not sending it. But those are the details. I am really sorry to hear from the Commissioner that, at such an undignified time, we are to have this debate. I'm glad he's here. It is the first time that I am a Member that there is a Czech Commissioner, that we have a chance to ask the Commission's idea, a Member of the Commission, about how to proceed. I don't think there's any point in saying everything backwards that was six years ago, five, four, seven who said how it changed. But we're not having this conversation. And now I ask the Prime Minister, aren't you ashamed of the empty benches and the debate? I do! And I'm an opposition MP.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-003-219.u23	I thank the President of ODS for not having to interrupt him, for respecting what I said. I also wanted to perform with priority rights, but I had more bad luck than any of you, because I had no one to replace me. So I'm interrupting negotiations on this point, and that's because we didn't end it because it's an open point. Thank you to Commissioner Věra Jourová. It will probably not be between us to continue this point, which will be to the detriment of the matter, but perhaps more members of the government will come, which I would very much like. I therefore wish you a good taste and we will meet at 14:30 for the planned interpelation of both the Prime Minister and the ministers of the Czech Republic. Enjoy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-20-ps2013-050-03-003-219.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. Welcome to the afternoon meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. For starters, let me read the apologies that came to me. Today, from 14.30 to the end of the day, for personal reasons, Mr Leo Luzar apologizes, and from 14.30 to the end of the day, Mr Kolovratník apologizes, then 20. 10 to 21. 10. Mr Radim Fiala apologizes for the hearing. The next item is
