ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-003-028.u1	28. Government bill amending certain laws in the field of taxation / House print 873/ - first reading Once again, I ask the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance to take the floor and state the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-003-028.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly introduce a bill amending certain tax laws. A total of seven tax laws are contained in the bill. By bringing these changes together into one law, we mainly monitor clarity for the addressees of these changes. By amendment of the Income Tax Act, we want to increase the tax advantage to the second, third and other dependent children. On the second child, the discount increases by CZK 200 a month, that is CZK 2,400 a year, and on the third and every other child by CZK 300 a month, that is CZK 3,600 a year compared to 2016. Furthermore, the content of the transfer of taxes on income from dependent small-scale activities, up to CZK 2,500, to the withholding tax regime, is so that taxpayers do not have to file tax returns due to these revenues. Withdrawal of tax support for supplementary pension savings in the case of partial disposal payments and withdrawal of the possibility to meet the limit for obtaining a tax bonus through capital and lease income. The amendment to the Value Added Tax Act also brings a number of substantive changes. First of all, it is the introduction of an institute of unreliable persons whose aim is to avoid the purpose of canceling a payer's registration with the intention of clearing himself, in quotation marks, from the designation of an unreliable payer. There is also an extension of the reverse charge scheme to all the taxable transactions allowed by the European Union. The draft law also includes the abolition of a specific regulation on the taxation of companies, formerly an association without legal personality, or the introduction of the liability of the recipient of taxable transactions for the payment granted by a virtual currency. The most important amendment to the Local Charges Act is the increase in the maximum fee for permit entry with motor vehicle to selected places and parts of cities - CZK 20 and CZK 200 for each starting day. The change is proposed following a government approved national emission reduction programme of the Czech Republic. The amendment of the tax rules concerns, in particular, the adjustment of interest on tax deduction, the extension of the tax administrator's obligation to trade authorities, register courts and other public authorities, and the facilitation of the payment of taxes, duties, fees and other similar cash transactions by credit card or similar means of payment. The effectiveness of the Act is proposed from 1 January 2017. In view of the time remaining until the end of the year, I am prepared to support the amendment to change effectiveness to 1 April 2017, with the fact that the selected provisions would be applicable from 1 January 2017 and some from 1 January 2018. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-003-028.u3	Thank you, Minister. I am registering Mr Kalousek's application, but I will have the rapporteur present. That is Mr Votava. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-003-028.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, let me briefly introduce you to my news report. The Minister here is the main principles of the House of Press 873 - which is a change in some tax laws, namely the laws of income tax on both natural and legal persons, VAT, but it also concerns local fees, administrative fees, tax rules, enforcement of intellectual property rights, it is therefore a broader set, a broader issue - he has already mentioned. As the Minister rightly said, the aim of all changes in one law is to make it clear that it is not fragmented into individual amendments to the laws. I want to say that the Committee on Budgets, without achieving the commandment as a guarantee committee, which I assume will be, with initiative, opened up this press, this proposal, with the fact that, after a general debate, it interrupted the general debate, with a deadline for amendments being set. Then I will also propose that the time limit for the hearing be reduced by 30 days to 30 days. Perhaps it is worth mentioning, of course, as I see it, and it is also the priority of this coalition, an increase in tax advantages on dependent children. It is certainly a government priority, a national policy, but there are also measures, as has been said, in the area of VAT, the introduction of an institute of unreliable persons, measures against tax evasion, the extension of a delegated tax obligation in the event of trade being covered by the so-called virtual currency. The tax package also contains stricter conditions for payment of the tax bonus. I think it's important, because that's what scams sometimes happen. Income from rents and capital assets will no longer be included within the income limit. It should be said that tax bonuses can amount to 60 thousand. Crowns. This is certainly also an important measure. There is a certain administrative burden being reduced, in that the Minister has already mentioned this, that for those small incomes, earnings up to 2,500 thousand. CZK a month will be able to tax withholding tax of 15 percent. Thus, the taxpayer will not have to make a tax return, the withholding tax will essentially be paid by the person who pays the taxpayer, i.e. the payer. For local fees, it is then possible to give municipalities an increase in the entry fee from the current CZK 20 to CZK 200, i.e. a number of measures. Mr President, I would not want to abuse my position as rapporteur. I would therefore, because in the next one I will have a comment, have entered into a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-003-028.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I'm opening the debate. The first application is from Mr Kalousek, then Mr Stanjura, then the rapporteur and then another.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-003-028.u6	Thank you for the floor. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Increasing tax reductions for second and third children is certainly a more acceptable and efficient way than raising social benefits. In this case, the government can count on our support. However, we regret that tax changes do not contain things that we believe the government still owes citizens of the Czech Republic, namely the repayment of funds that have been raised either temporarily or in custody for some purpose. I'll remind you of three basics. In connection with pension reform and the introduction of the second pillar, the reduced VAT rate was increased from 10 to 14 percent. This higher VAT collection was expected to finance a reduction in income to the first pillar and at the same time there was no increase in the tax quota because the funds deposited in the second pillar were not subject to a compound tax quota. The government canceled the second pillar, unfortunately it did not come up with any other alternative to pension reform, there was simply a simple cancellation. And it is completely illogical why, with the introduction of the second pillar, a reduced rate was increased to finance it, why, with the abolition of the second pillar, their funds were not returned to the citizens of the Czech Republic, because there is no need to finance the failure associated with the second pillar. That's the first example. The second example is two operations that have been legalized for a transitional period of three years. In the context of the crisis, the basic and reduced VAT rate from 14 to 15 and 20 to 21 per cent was increased by one point and the so-called solidarity premium was introduced, which we can easily say is the second rate for personal income tax. It was clearly said and promised to the citizens of the Czech Republic that this higher collection would be collected only three years, and it was enacted, directly in the applicable law, the effectiveness of these measures was limited by date 1. 1. 2015. [[15.10 hours]] However all three current government parties dramatically criticised this measure, so one of the first things they did was that effectiveness to 1. 1. They canceled 2015 and kept the money forever. Now different cosmetic games regarding the third VAT rate are playing with it. We know what the consequences were. There are dramatic discussions going on about whether or not a draft beer will fall, but that it was a valid part of the rule of law, that it has to do with 1. 1. 2015 quit and people are supposed to get the money back, that's not what they're talking about. You basically increased their taxes de iure, not de facto, but de iure you gave them to 1. 1. 2015 has increased the taxes completely unnecessarily and without justification. And I still insist on mine, that what was in the law should be true, that these people should be to the 1. 1. 2015 got the money back. We will at least try to do so under this law. It'd be nice if it was at least one. 1. 2017, since you've already canceled on 1. 1. 2015. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-003-028.u7	Thank you, please, Prime Minister Stanjura, then Mr Vilímec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-003-028.u8	Good afternoon. Governments change, but the custom of discussing tax laws at the last minute doesn't change. Note that I have used many numbers that I have said: governments are changing. And it's not good for anyone. I want to argue with the opinion of the President of the Committee on Budgets that this bill is clear, clear and understandable. It has 566 pages, it interferes with many laws, only with income tax brings 200 changes. It's neither simple nor understandable, and most importantly it's too late. I have more of a question as to why the government coalition deals with three increases in the discount on the other and another child. This could have been resolved at once, with the fact that each time the effectiveness of the further increase would have been one year later. At this point, it is a matter that has the support of us as opposition parties. Not surprisingly, because that's what we supported last year and last year. We could have taken it at the same time. Now, it's kind of like the hostages of this bill are this increase in deduction. And I repeat, it has our support. I have to say that there is a slight improvement in the date against last year, and last year we discussed it even later. But I'm serious. We have two and a half months until the end of the year and we begin the first reading of the law, which has 560 pages, and its proposal has been written effective since 1 January. We do not have a problem with the shift of efficiency to April 1st, I say this straight away, which was announced by the Minister in his opening speech. But is that a good thing? Change tax laws as of April 1st? How do we want tax payers to prepare for new obligations? And even if it was from April 1st, the time is extremely short. Extremely short. And it really deserves a detailed debate not only what has the support, i.e. increasing the discount on the second and the other child, I think the opinions of the different clubs agree on this, and there is no doubt that the debate will not be about that. We want to return to our proposal, which has already been rejected by the Chamber of Deputies, this must be recalled and admitted. By means of a separate draft amendment to the Income Tax Act, we proposed to return the possibility of applying a discount on the wife or husband and children, as well as to businessmen who apply the flat-rate in more than 50 per cent. We think that the possibility of applying a discount on a wife or husband, children are part of the national policy of the state, and it is an instrument that has the support of civil democrats. We just don't understand that the support of families and the support of children shouldn't depend on the way parents feed. Employees can benefit from this advantage, tradesmen who use flats less than 50 percent or do not use them at all can also draw them, and others cannot draw them. I see no reason. I have to turn down the thesis for us repeatedly that whoever uses flats does not want to pay taxes and avoid paying taxes. It's not like that. The flat rates, moreover, are limited by the amount of two million, serve for the small ones and the smallest ones and are to relieve them of bureaucratic obligations. And they themselves can decide whether to pay taxes on a pre-established basis according to the amount of income or not. And I've said it once before. Imagine with legal entities if we put in place flat rates without limits. Even the most advantageous means that 80 per cent of revenue was a tax base. So look at large multinational corporations that have ten billion turnovers in the Czech Republic, if the tax base is 20 percent of income. Count me in. Of the 10 billion income, at the highest 80% flat rate, the tax base is 2 billion, of which the income tax is 19 percent, which is a brother of some 380 million crowns. If we were to use 60% flat rate, the most common one for the craft trades, the ten-billion-dollar turnover remains your tax base every year, and 19 percent of that income is almost 800 million, respectively. 780 million income tax. And nobody's weird and nobody blames them, we give them tax breaks, offers, investment incentives, and I don't mean that ironically, and we like to invest and create jobs here. It's okay. And all of a sudden, the smallest people who use, when I talk about craftsmen, 60% flat-rate, are suspicious that they pay low taxes. And that base is 60 percent of their income. So we don't see any reason for them to get discounts on a partner or partner - who doesn't have income, that's what needs to be said - and return to the children. And it's really not a good idea that I know from the media that the government has agreed on a compromise, virtually. Not the government, but the government coalition, yes, but we're gonna cut the flats again. This has no meaning in the logic of these numbers. In my view and in our view, it's just another piece of evidence that the government coalition just doesn't like small, small-scale businessmen. KDU colleagues may be angry with me, they face the media that they are the ones who are promoting this discount, and when we voted on it, they did not support it. I think the compromise is disadvantageous and it reduces flat rates again unnecessarily. I want to update that we will certainly not propose any rejection, we are in favour of the release for second reading, in the context of one of our fundamental amendments, it will be precisely the return of the possibility of applying a discount to a partner, husband or wife or children without changing the flat rate. I think that's something we could agree on. If the government coalition has submitted a draft state budget with a planned step of 60 billion and, at the same time, at the beginning of October, the Minister of Finance will announce the results of the nine-month economy that is really favorable, more than 70 billion surplus, with a forecast by the Minister of Finance that there will be a surplus or a balanced budget at the end of the year, then please do not tell me that there is no money to allow the smallest traders to apply their discount. These three numbers just don't go together. Balanced or surplus budget expected in two and a half months, planned deficit next fiscal year 60 billion and so-called. the impossibility and large state budget cuts in re-establishing discounts for businessmen who apply flat rates of more than 50 per cent to say exactly that. Just as we criticized the deficit last year and found savings, I guarantee that we will find much more savings in this year's budget, and we will present them at second reading, which will multiply the possible revenue loss in applying these discounts several times. [[15.20 hours]] Let's support families with children. In my opinion, this is the right direction for tax relief and discounts for those who take care of their families, and let us not distinguish them according to the status of parents, whether they are businessmen or employees. But I think we need to have a debate on many other things, too, because the law is quite complicated. I do not agree that it is simple and clear. I'm saying, unfortunately, what there is a match, a discount on the second and the next child, could have been resolved long ago. But I respect that, you wanted to sell it politically three times, political marketing belongs to politics, every government boasts what it did, there's nothing wrong with that. But we could've had it here three times, you could've boasted three times, you've always had it approved in November, and from January 1st, they'll all be. Accounting software would be prepared for that, accounting software would be prepared for that. But most importantly, they would be prepared for it by those who will have more money left and will have increased their net income.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-003-028.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I give the floor to Mr Vilímc, with priority rights, the rapporteur, and then it will be your turn. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-003-028.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Whether the law is clear or not clear - to your colleague Stanjur, Mr President. So I think if the changes are in one law, one doesn't have to go through it with forgiveness in other laws, but it's one thing. And if the number of pages is 100, 120 or 130, okay. That was at least what was meant by me, and I think also by the Minister that tax measures from more than one area are in one legal standard. As regards the discount on children's tax, wife, etc. for self-employed people who use expense flats. Yes, I do. The coalition has agreed - perhaps even the Minister will confirm it - it is also the reduction of the limit from 2 miles. for 1 million, when it is possible to use expenditure flat rates. That's true. That's the way it is. However, I would like to make one comment that I did not want to mention in my intelligence report and which certainly deserves a more detailed debate. Last year, we approved as the Chamber of Deputies the Act on Supplementary Pension Savings, in which we made it possible - and on the basis of this, I declare that my amendment and the amendment in common with Mr Zavadil, which gives the opportunity to save already children, while also giving the possibility that after a period of 10 years of savings and the completion of 18 years, they could choose one third as partial sales, use it for example for studies or to solve some other things. In essence, the tax package introduces the withdrawal of tax aid for this product, including the loss of the possibility to obtain tax exemptions for the employer's contribution in the future. I don't think it's right. We were just going to motivate the third pillar, the supplementary pension savings, by putting the kids there to save their lives, to think about retirement, even though they could essentially choose that one third after fulfilling the conditions, e.g. for study. This, too, is the provision for old age in a way - to study, apply to the labour market, and thus, of course, increase the means for them to be used in retirement. So I think it's worth thinking about adjusting this, and if this young man wants to choose after the completion of 18 years and 10 years when he saves, part of the funds, one third, then he's no longer tax-advantaged. I don't think that's right. It's a matter of further discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-003-028.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Thank you, too, rapporteur. I'll read the two apologies that have arrived. Today, from 14 o'clock to the end of the day, for urgent reasons of employment, duty in the Ministry of the Interior, Minister Chovanec apologizes and, for reasons of employment, today from 15 to 16.30, Mrs Věra Kovářová apologises. Another duly signed up for the debate is Mr Vilímec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-003-028.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just a few comments more general and then a comment on the amendment to the Local Charges Act. So I do not want to debate how much of the bill as it was submitted is clear or not clear. I think if we all look into tax laws and, above all, the Income Tax Act, a common mortal can't orient himself in that law. That's a general observation, and it's hard for anyone to protest against that statement. You know, the problem is, Mr Kalousek and the others suggested that what was supposed to be is not valid, and what is going to be true this year will not apply next year, and what is going to be true next year does not apply over the next year, and so it is over and over again. Of course, the tax advisors or those who train and organise training etc. benefit most. That's the general point. You know, the foresight of tax legislation during this parliamentary term is very difficult. And then a few more specific remarks, so I don't just criticize. As an elderly municipal policy, I think it is good that, after many years, the Ministry of Finance has finally agreed on the tax recognition of depreciation of the contribution organisations - I think it has not yet fallen here - in the case of assets entrusted to the administration of the local authorities. Now it's after the district elections, especially the regions had big problems with it, because they have hundreds of contribution organizations, nota bene some organizations or others can't be other than as contributions, like schools, so it's positive. It is obvious that the possible impact on the state budget is negligible, as I have seen. So if I'm going to reflect on the debates back in the days when I used to be Deputy Governor of the Pilsen Region ten years ago, or how many, even in light of the consequences, the arguments were not valid enough. I also consider, and this has also been said here from the Minister's mouth, to be a reasonable taxation of withholding income from the dependent activity of a small extent. I think the impact on the budget, as I have seen, is negligible. Of course, some things require discussion. I am not entirely convinced that the application of tax bonuses in the case of capital rental income should be restricted somehow. But the chairman of the Committee on Budgets said that it was being abused somehow, even in the explanatory report, I don't know. I don't like to divide income into so-called. active and inactive. And if I stay with this terminology, it's the revenue that's called. Inactive rents are connected to some investments, that's always the case. If someone has decided to purchase the property they rent, I consider it a legal income and I do not think that these revenues should be recognised. But this is more or less a point that is specific, and I think that this should actually be considered in committees or in committee. Moreover, the budgetary impact, when I looked at it, is indeed also negligible. There are a lot of changes in tax laws or in this press. But when I reflected on the concrete effect it has on the taxpayer, except for the increase in tax advantages for dependent children, there are no major changes, although there are many partial differences. But, of course, the debate will take place on the budget committee. [[15.30 hours]] But I want to stop at one thing that I think is pretty crucial, and she's just been there so briefly, and that's an amendment to the Local Charges Act. We're here recently or recently, it's been about a year and a half, they've approved an amendment to the Local Charges Act, and now we have another amendment. When I looked at what was the subject of the novel, it's more like, let's say, partial things that may or may not be. As a result, the Local Charges Act does not need to be amended, except for the relatively rapid increase in the maximum possible fee for the permit of entry of vehicles into certain parts of municipalities or cities. I know that the fee of CZK 20 per day is quite low, but to raise it to 10 times, to CZK 200, that's very brave, and I don't know if that's the right thing to do. And that fee is nothing but a tax, after all, we're talking about tax laws. Here, I'm always on the side of the village, or most of the time. I am also a municipal politician for many years, yet I consider the tenfold increase to be very rapid and unusual. I don't remember any charge going up to ten times one law. And it can also cause big problems in some cases. Of course, when you look at the wording of the fee, it depends on the generally binding decree, so there are certain people liberated - those who have a permanent residence in the village, those who own the property in the village, and those who do or have an establishment there, but those who work in the village and do not have a permanent residence there, so that is a rather big problem for them, a significant problem. I am in favour of a reasonable treatment of the amount of this fee. It should not simply be linked to an effort to increase the city's income at all costs. I don't think it should be, and I think it's a not-quite-balanced increase. And I certainly asked the Union of Cities and Cities if it was their proposal. They assured me that while they were not on hunger strike in relation to this proposal, they did not make such a proposal. This means that I am certainly going to use the right to an amendment for this local fee at second reading, because I do not think that a tenfold increase in the maximum rate of this fee is appropriate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-003-028.u13	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. The rapporteur is duly registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-003-028.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'd just like to make a comment on Mr. Vilímc. The rate of CZK 200 per day is the maximum, that's the ceiling. It depends, of course, on the village, how it will judge, if it is such a part of the village, where there is really no great interest in the entry of vehicles, it is some protected area, of course part of the city, so it can go up to 200 crowns. But maybe there doesn't have to be any charge. If the municipality decides not to apply the fee anywhere in the territory of its municipality, it shall not apply it. It depends, of course, on how it is judged by its own community. I guess that's what it was meant to be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-003-028.u15	I thank you and ask if anyone else is still reporting to the general debate. I'm not registering any applications. If this is the case, I am ending the general debate and I am asking whether the appellant or rapporteur wants to take the final floor. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-003-028.u16	I have announced that I will propose a reduction of the time limit for discussion of 30 days to 30 days, therefore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-003-028.u17	Did this proposal come out in the general debate?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-003-028.u18	It was when I spoke of my intelligence report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-003-028.u19	In that case, it will probably be necessary to ask one of the Ministers if he would be willing to open the debate again so that you can read this proposal. [[Messenger. I'm sorry.]] Mr. Culture Minister? Or the plaintiff. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-003-028.u20	I would like to ask for the opening of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-003-028.u21	Thank you. In that case, I'm opening, virtually. a general debate is open and please read your proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-003-028.u22	I'm so sorry about the oversight. So I propose that the time limit for committee discussions be reduced by 30 days, i.e. 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-18-ps2013-050-01-003-028.u23	Thank you and I ask if anyone else is joining the general debate. I see no one, in which case I conclude the general debate and again ask whether the appellant or rapporteur would like to take the final floor. It's not like that. There has not been a proposal to return or to refuse, so we will deal with the motion on the commandments of the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the motion submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a committee of guarantee. I ask if anyone else has a motion against this proposal. I don't see anyone, in which case we'll proceed to the vote. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that the proposal submitted be ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee of guarantee, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 21; 168 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 141, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, and I am asking whether anyone has a motion on the commandment to the next committee or committees for discussion. I don't see a suggestion like that. We will now vote on a shortening of the time limit for discussion. I'm registering a request for your check-out. So I'm going to check you all out first, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards again. And I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's here to cut the deadline for 30 days to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 22, 147 Members and Members registered, for proposal 101, against 34. I note that this proposal has been approved and the time limit for the hearing has been reduced to 30 days. We have therefore voted on all proposals, and I am done discussing this point, and thank you. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
