ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-007-080.u1	80. Government bill amending Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended, and other related laws /German press 886/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 It is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. Under the authority of the Government, the proposal will be made by the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán. Colleague I will also ask my daughter to stay at the rapporteur's table because she is also the rapporteur for this press. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-007-080.u2	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, the proposal that I am proposing to you on behalf of the Government, which we are asking that it be adopted at first reading, is a proposal which should significantly improve the possibilities of our criminal law in the sanction of terrorism and other crimes related to terrorism. The point is that things that we have so far been able to prosecute in theory as a form of preparation, participation and other assistance to the crime of a terrorist attack, so these things are now divided into special facts in this proposal. In particular, it involves participation in a terrorist group, financial and material support for terrorism, public incitement or acts other than the commission of a terrorist offence, public approval or acknowledgment of a terrorist offence, provision or promise of remuneration for the commission of a terrorist offence, acceptance and provision of terrorist training, travel for the purpose of terrorism and finally threats of terrorist crime. Making it a special fact will greatly increase the likelihood that if something like this happens, the deterrent effect, because in the law, the potential perpetrator can read that he is facing punishment, and you know that the only time someone went abroad was perhaps the person who traveled there rather out of stupidity, and maybe if he had read something like that, he wouldn't have done it. On the other hand, it will simplify the demonstration of the crime and thus increase the likelihood that it will actually be affected and that it will not remain on the theoretical level. It's not something we can make up ourselves. It's something that international organisations have long demanded of us. We fought back for a long time and tried to pretend that we understood these things better than they did. They're from countries where they have a real experience of punishing terrorism, so we've finally recognised that they might be right. But that's not why I'm presenting it. Something that we really need today and from that international point of view, because we are judged especially by the Moneyval Committee as a state that does not fight enough against terrorist financing, and we are already in the very last warning before it could lead to impacts on such things as the Czech Republic's rating. And that's certainly not something I think we need. For this reason, too, we ask that this matter be discussed in an accelerated regime, because, firstly, we believe and we believe that there is a universal consensus that we need to acquire tools to combat terrorism and, secondly, we are already beginning to press time for international legal reasons. For all these reasons, I therefore ask for the support of this proposal and for its support at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-007-080.u3	I thank the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán and ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Jeroným Tejc to present his report. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-007-080.u4	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will follow up with the Minister. The purpose of the law is not to change criminal law in a revolutionary way so that individual acts of terrorism can be prosecuted. These can already be prosecuted to a large extent under the current legal condition. However, they often need to be considered not as a separate offence, but for example. as a clue to a crime. As well as for example. approval of a terrorist attack can certainly be inferior to incitement to hatred or other factual elements. [[13.10 hours]] What is important, however, is that, first, by clarifying criminal law, we will allow, as the Minister has already said, all potential perpetrators who do not know that it is impossible to approve a terrorist attack cannot be called upon to commit a terrorist attack, so we will also allow these negotiations to be punished with the fact that the main focus of the law is, above all, protection against terrorist financing, i.e. punish those involved e.g. To search for resources to commit a terrorist attack, to seek out people who would commit them. I think that this bill can also help significantly in the fight against the radicalisation of certain groups by, for example. it has made it easier to punish those who encourage anyone else, whether by television, the press, or personally at the hearing, to commit a certain attack, not specifically, but simply radicalize them in order for them to commit a similar act. Such persons may be punished newly in proceedings on a separate basis and, above all, may be arrested, imprisoned and subsequently expelled. So that's the benefit of the law. The Minister mentioned that time is running out, and we really need to adopt this adjustment on the basis of certain recommendations. The Moneyval Committee has already decided in plenary to transfer our country to Level II in the framework of the enhanced regime, which consists of sending a visit to the High Representative of the Moneyval Committee. It has already been done, I and the Minister and other colleagues have met them, we have explained the situation in the Czech Republic, we have explained that it would certainly not be the right step for the Czech Republic to be among countries that indirectly support or allow international terrorism. I think it would be absurd, because unlike the countries from which many of these committee members come, we have no problems with terrorism, as we have in the world today. On the other hand, the amendments that are here and which are proposed by the Ministry of Justice are, in my opinion, an asset and, above all, have been consulted with representatives of both the coalition and the opposition, so as to ensure smooth approval and to comply with partial reservations both from the coalition members and the opposition in order to ensure that the proposal does not contain any further changes to the criminal law, so that it really focuses on the matter that we should discuss quickly. So, in this sense, I also dare ask that we give our consent today to this proposal at first reading. Of course, each of us may have a proposal to mention certain wordings, but that means that the law would be discussed instead of today in the coming months, and I would argue that we should include any further proposals for changes in other, such as MPs or government proposals, which will certainly still appear here in connection with the amendment to the criminal law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-007-080.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening the debate and with priority rights, Mr František Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-007-080.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to speak at all on this subject, but frankly, what I have heard here from Minister Pelikán - we will not veto the use of Section 90. But what does he do? How long have you had time, Minister, to present it here in time? And what are you talking about now about the ratings of the Czech Republic? By the way, because of the Minister of Finance, the Czech Republic was reduced in great media silence about two months ago. Anyway, what are you guys talking about? You guys are going somewhere in the Indian jungle to meditate, and then you're pushing us into the fact that it actually has to be approved. I have no doubt that this is probably a necessary standard. If it's such a priority, look at the coalition lines, how many of these Members you have here. Working? That's what you put on your billboards. So where are you? And please, I object to you saying, "If it doesn't work, the Czech Republic's rating will be reduced." I don't doubt it. Of course, it will be a shame, but the shame arises that your ministry is catastrophically inefficient. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-007-080.u7	Thank you, Mr Marek Benda's point of order. Thank you for not being, because you have a proper application. Minister with priority rights. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-007-080.u8	I just want to say briefly that we've had this problem for about eight years, most of the time your colleagues were sitting there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-007-080.u9	Thank you, now my colleague Jana Hnyková with a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-007-080.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As I'm listening to the debate here, I'd like to ask the Minister. I don't have to use you, do I? [[- You don't have to.]] I would like to ask you, Minister, how did you talk about someone being tried and expelled for radicalizing, because I often hear from some colleagues that we are populists and that we scare people, so I just want to prepare myself for whether, when we put this into effect, if I have to worry about my freedom, too, because I defend our interests and say what can happen to us. It also applies to my colleagues and other colleagues who are expressing themselves about what has happened to Europe and what can happen to Europe. So I'd just like to ask if these things can happen, and you can blame me, that's what I'm wondering. If you could maybe tell us specifically. I admit that this law isn't in my book, I didn't quite study it in detail, but I'd like to ask you this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-007-080.u11	Thank you for keeping time. Now, a really factual remark from my colleague Benda. I'd like us to move on. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-007-080.u12	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I did not initially comment on the facts, but when the Minister said that this problem has been here for eight years, I do not know what the problem is, I would really be interested. What a problem and what eight years. I was quite willing to be, say, relatively restrained in this bill, to admit that it will be discussed in Section 90, although I do not think it is very clever. And I'll tell you why I don't think he's really smart, but I wanted to leave it for a normal calm debate. But if, again, the Minister, where the performance of his resort is really reduced by a series that, as a person who has been watching it for quite a long time, is completely incomprehensible to me, so on the reservation why it was not presented in May or June, when it might have been, it was done long ago, he will say his mandatory sentence "eight years," then I would really like to know what these eight years have been coming from.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-007-080.u13	There. You're all bothering me. Now, a factual remark from my colleague Plíšek, then a factual comment from Marek Černoch. I remind you that at 1:30 p.m., I will interrupt this point under any circumstances, because I will not force the House to change its decision, and we will deal with the polling points. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-007-080.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I originally wanted to sign up with a proper application, but there were factual remarks, so I will take advantage of that too. We will not, as our club chairman has said, veto an accelerated discussion, but here I have some basic information to say. It's not the House's fault we're discussing this on Friday afternoon. On the other hand, if I'm right, the commitments we're supposed to fulfill are to be approved or effective by February next year, so there's no rush to have to approve at first reading. But as I say, we don't want to block it, and we want to discuss this properly at first reading. [[13.20 hours]] However, I must add that I do not understand, on the one hand, the laxity for which the Ministry of Justice sent it at the last moment, and, on the other hand, if I have the correct information, the transposition is due to take place by February next year, even though we are one of the states of the European Union who is quite late in the approval process, and because the Ministry has not sent it here a few months earlier, it will not allow us to discuss this properly. I will just add that we should also clarify what we are going to vote on. As it tightens, prison sentences are imposed for up to ten years for the dissemination of information via the Internet, social networks. I just hope that if this amendment is approved by law enforcement authorities, they will be reasonable, that terrorism will be prosecuted on the one hand and, on the other hand, it will not be abused against some freedom of expression that there will be proportionality and the proportionality of using the rather strict provisions. But all of Europe came to it. [[The President draws attention to the end of time for the factual remark.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-007-080.u15	One more point in fact, Marek Černoch and then the rapporteur. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-007-080.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I certainly don't want to upset you, but I also have to resist what the Minister said. Because the minister said it needed to be done quickly. I would just like to remind you that we made a similar proposal six months ago, and we were referred to as those who are haunted that there is no need. There is some contradiction, but of course Dawn will support this law, because we consider it very important and we are fully aware of the risk of Islamic terror, and not only of Islamic but at all of the terror that unfortunately currently exists in Europe. Just to the edge. We also disagree not to allow ourselves to be pushed and to adopt this law because we are being pushed into this by international organisations, but accept this because it is really necessary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-007-080.u17	Thank you. Now, the rapporteur's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-007-080.u18	I agree with the previous speaker that this is really about us, our decision, and it is not just about the pressure of international organisations. On the other hand, in the explanatory memorandum on page 15, you will find information that, at the FATF plenary session in Paris on 17 and 19 February 2016, it was decided that we were assigned to a group of countries with insufficient criminalisation of terrorist financing. We are the only country from Europe ever, next to us are the countries of Brazil, Fiji, Papua New Guinea, Barbados, Seychelles, Swaziland, Zambia, Lesotho, Malawi, Uganda, Colombia, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Peru, Uruguay, Liberia, the State of Palestine, Oman, Lebanon, Libya and Iraq. I think we should do everything in our power to disappear from this society in terms of the financing of terrorism or the lack of jurisdiction. Second thing. I want to reassure Mrs Hnyková. I'm sure she doesn't have to worry about being criminalized for her statements. Indeed, in some of the documents and proposals that appeared from individual ministries, there were considerations that the assessment of verbal offences would be tightened. We strongly rejected this. I am glad that the Minister of Justice has complied with the demands that this matter really does not affect this law. I think restricting freedom of speech would be very debatable. Personally, I couldn't raise my hand for him. However, as far as the verbal actions are concerned, they will, of course, be prosecuted. So any of us who committed support, such as approving a terrorist act, or calling for a verbal act of terrorism to be committed and convincing someone to do something like that would be punished. However, I think it is a matter that we may all agree that such things should be prosecuted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-007-080.u19	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Minister. Then a colleague of Soukup, who is the first to be enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-007-080.u20	Just two sentences. About why so many years. The Moneyval Committee approved the evaluation report at its 35th plenary session in April 2011. He's already approved the evaluation report in which he's definitely shutting down that we're in conflict. We have dealt with this in the ordinary regime. Then they came from Moneyval and they were really mad at us, so we tried to speed it up. That's why we actually took everything else out of it. That's all we've got. I don't want to pressure you to approve for some moneyval, I just think it's something we really need in today's situation in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-007-080.u21	Thank you, Minister. Mr Zdeněk Soukup will speak in an open debate. Of course, I am registering the application of František Laudát for a factual remark and a colleague of Marek Černoch with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-007-080.u22	Do I have a word, then? [[Yes.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the amendment to the Criminal Code in this regard. At the same time, I would like to ask, in particular, the right-wing opposition, which has reservations in order to actually allow negotiations in this case in the accelerated procedure to be made, in order to forget their principles. But I can't help the impression that we're going to terrorism from the woods. Once again, thanks for the first legislative swallow. But I do have a few other topics for the government, for the responsible ministries. Unfortunately, the more migrants or asylum seekers from the Islamic environment, the greater the risk. That's the reality of today. The most effective measure to defend terrorism and chaos is to resolutely refuse to move migrants into our territory. I'm telling you right now, I don't trust Prime Minister Sobotk that the brussels equator gradually withdraws from quotas and other efforts to impose on us what we don't want. This is confirmed by Wednesday's statement by the MEP for ČSSD Keller for the media that the European Parliament in Strasbourg is currently discussing a proposal from the European Commission that all Union states will be obliged to report once every three months how much migrants from Greece and Italy are able to receive. Those aren't quotas, it's a dictatorship. Today's information from some newspapers, President Martin Schulz of the European Parliament, said that if it does not go well with Central European governments in terms of quotas and the like, it will address the left-wing leadership of cities. That, I'd say, is a pretty explosive matter, especially before our regional elections. I just remembered a song by Jark Nohavica, which says, "We've got traps, we've got fat traps." I guess that's how I'd rate it. But back to the legislation. I've prepared, and in a few days, I'm going to insert an amendment to the law on churches and religious societies. I deal with the problem of clergymen from abroad, who are in many cases carriers of radical Islam. I would like to call on the Government to make appropriate legislative efforts. It is important to see the ban on financing the construction of mosques and other activities of Muslim communities from abroad, especially from Saudi Arabia and Qatar. Similar steps have been taken in Austria and other countries. We should also consider what some of the main thesis of Islam is in conflict with the criminal order of the Czech Republic. For example, it is clear discrimination against women and kephirs, or anyone who does not believe that Mohamed is Alláhův's messenger. [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room.]] These are direct calls for intolerance and violence. I'm not quoting from the Koran, the hadith, and the sur. We should strive for the integrity of our national law. By the way, the amendment to the Criminal Code presented by Minister Pelikán today addresses the approval of terrorism. I think the author means verbal or written speeches here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-007-080.u23	I'd cut you off, colleague. I will ask the House once again for peace! You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-007-080.u24	But isn't it also the approval of terrorism and its bearer of Islamism a spectacular demonstration, such as the wearing of burka, nicab or hijab? That's not a misguided thought. For example, it is dealt with by legislators in Denmark or Bavaria, as we have read. And let me make one more comment on the bill that we'll have on our desk in a few days, the State Budget Act. We're just gonna have to pay a lot for our safety. It's expensive. Let me give you an example. The European Union spends 137 million euros a year on Frontex, or the European border control system. The United States of America spends $30 billion to protect its borders, 20 times as much. Then they can do some kind of immigration policy. I'm not going to comment on how humane it is right now, but it protects its borders. Europe does not protect its borders, it does not seek solutions in countries where there is a problem. Instead, he breaks down quotas and says: wir schaffen es. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-16-ps2013-049-08-007-080.u25	I thank my colleague Zdeněk Soukupa. I apologize to everyone who has signed up, namely František Laudát, who is registered to a factual remark, with priority rights, Mr. Marek Černoch. But since it's 13.29 and at 13.30 we've got solid voting points, I have no choice but to take this procedural step, and that's that I'm interrupting item 80. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. I'll call on the President of the Election Commission to come, because the next item on our agenda is:
