ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-008-036.u1	36. Government bill amending Act No. 589/1992 Coll., on Social Security Insurance and Contribution to State Employment Policy, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 926/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will also be presented in this case by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-008-036.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Members, this proposal contains amendments to four basic social insurance laws and can be described as technical, since it concerns in particular the way in which they are implemented without impact on the rates of insurance premiums or any conditions for entitlement to social insurance benefits or their amount. These changes are based on experience with the implementation of social insurance and the initiatives of social security authorities and insured persons, in particular from the initiatives of self-employed persons. The most important are changes in the Social Security Insurance Act. There, in particular, it simplifies the payment of sickness and pension insurance premiums by self-employed persons, for example, in these cases, the maturity of sickness insurance premiums or pension insurance premiums is adjusted and it is proposed to allow the payment of insurance premiums and advances in the current and subsequent months, i.e. in the period of two months without penalty for late payment, which is particularly welcome for those self-employed persons who need not be able to pay the premiums within the prescribed period for example due to hospitalization. In the case of advances on pension insurance, the determination of the basis for the payment of such advances is simplified. In the case of a subsidiary activity, it is possible to forgive the payment of advances on pension insurance in the case of a large decrease in income. To date, the amount of the advance may only be reduced. For example, in the sickness insurance law, measures are implemented for the benefit of workers engaged in small-scale employment or in an agreement to carry out work. It is also possible for midwifes, if the pregnant insured woman is in their care, to confirm the application for motherhood assistance, because only a doctor could have done so far. For example, in the field of pension insurance, provisions on the management and provision of data by social security authorities are specified in particular where the beneficiary lives abroad or when the pension is paid into an account. Again, taking into account the requirements on the complexity of legislation and practical implementation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-008-036.u3	Thank you, too. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Vladislav Vilímec. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-008-036.u4	Dear Vice-President, I will follow up on the Minister. I'm gonna be a lot more helpful here than the last draft. It is, in the vast majority of cases, a technical law and the aim of this law, and not only the objective, but it is also a factual part, it is in many cases a simplification of the payment of insurance social contributions to self-employed persons. I don't want to repeat or elaborate what the secretary mentioned here. Perhaps I would still recall that another amendment in this law is also a certain tolerance of a slight delay in payment of the advance needed for pension insurance premiums, i.e. The penalty shall not be paid where the advance is paid by the end of the month following the month for which it is paid. Or cancellation of restrictions for determining the maximum amount of the monthly assessment base for advances on pension insurance premiums. There are many changes, and I believe there will be a responsible debate on these changes on the Committee on Social Policy. That's why, without wanting to stretch it out, there's really no reason to criticize. If it were, I would certainly extend and argue it, but there is no reason for any greater criticism, at least from my point of view, as the rapporteur of this press, 926 I therefore recommend that it be referred to the committee, where some other matters may be clarified or modified. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-008-036.u5	Thank you, too. I open a general debate in which I register two applications. First, I will ask Mr Opálka to speak, and Mrs Šánová will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-008-036.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Madam Secretary, still alone from the government, colleagues, just a brief remark. The proposed changes do not represent substantial substantive changes, they are mainly operationally technical in nature, but I would still be suspended for one change. In general, it can be said that the proposal brings considerable softening for self-employed people. That doesn't have to be a bad thing. However, I would like to say to what the rapporteur also said, if the person who is self-employed does not pay sickness insurance premiums within the due period, his sickness insurance will not expire and he may be entitled to benefits. And that is the problem that I see from a historical point of view, because it was from the health insurance that there were various speculative negotiations, and I would like to be here, probably not now, but on the committee, if we could discuss the situation as to what the brakes are to avoid getting into the situation that this part could actually be abused. Abused from the point of view if I'm not sick, I won't pay if I'm sick, I'll pay fast. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-008-036.u7	Thank you, too. Now, then, Mrs Šánová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-008-036.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, I must go first to the speaker. I don't know what she means, that she could, or how she could, abuse. It only extends for a month because for those who don't know, now that the CFI has voluntarily paid sick leave, if it has forgotten to pay by 20 a month, it has been automatically logged out. And now imagine that, for example, it happened to me that I actually voluntarily paid my sick leave for two years, I forgot to pay in December, I didn't make it to the deadline, and I was logged out. And in order for me to be entitled to a disability, I have to pay for three months. Then I'm entitled. So I don't know what kind of abuse we're talking about here when this gives the self-employed person only the opportunity to make amends and pay in the next month. I don't know. But right now, I would like to say to the Minister as the petitioner of the amendment that I would agree with everything that has been said here. But I just can't get past the powers of midwifes. Here, basically, the Social Security Insurance Act is amended and, in connection with it, Act No. 187 on sickness insurance, from which maternity leave is paid, is the first six months. She's on sick leave. And so far, only doctors have had the competence to confirm the term of birth. I think it just belongs to them. And the ministry's effort, as I understand it, is to correct this deficiency, which is in the decree, and the midwife, I point out high school educated, cannot issue this certificate. So I think it should continue to be that way, and on the contrary, we should think about whether the midwife, which is now valid, can diagnose pregnancy, dear friends. A high-school midwife can diagnose pregnancy, which I think is absurd! And that's for a number of reasons. First of all, it's a total degradation of medical education and occupation. I don't know how many women don't want to give birth in a hospital, how many women would want to take advantage of that freedom and give birth at home, I don't know, and not to go to a doctor because the condition is that at the moment she decides, wants to give birth at home, doesn't want to see a doctor, doesn't want to see a midwife diagnoses her pregnancy, but so that she can take and draw a dose where I can see some abuse here, so she goes to her gynecologist who doesn't see her from conception until six weeks before birth or within eight weeks, and confirms her pregnancy, the term of expected birth, which I resent and I cannot agree with. In this context, I would like to point out that there is probably also a contradiction between Act 96 on non-medical professions and Decree 55 of 2011. Law 96 says, and now I'm going to find it exactly... I'll find it to tell you the truth that a midwife can do without professional supervision, yeah, she can do without professional supervision. On the contrary, the decree says, and now I don't know if I'm saying it the other way around, it can only be supervised by a doctor. So even there, I think it should unite. But I'm definitely in favour of not building high school high school midwifes to the level of doctors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-008-036.u9	Thank you, too, Madame. I wonder if anyone else is joining the general debate. I don't see anyone. If this is the case, I am ending the general debate and I am asking the rapporteur and the Minister whether you want to take the final floor at this stage. It's not like that. Since there has not been a proposal to return or reject this material, we will continue to deal with the proposal on the commandments of the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. I wonder if anyone is proposing a commandment to another committee as a committee of guarantee. I can't see. In that case, we will vote on this proposal. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that the proposal submitted be ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 127. 150 Members and Members are registered. For design 121, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, and I ask whether anyone has a proposal on the commandment to the next committee or committees for discussion. Please, Mr. Svoboda. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-008-036.u10	Thank you. Given what's going on here, I'd suggest a health committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-06-ps2013-053-05-008-036.u11	Thank you. Anyone else have a suggestion? I don't see another suggestion. In that case, I shall vote on this proposal. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that this proposal be ordered to discuss the health committee, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 128. 150 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 76, against 30. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Health Committee. I thank you and end the discussion of this point. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
