ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-03-ps2013-042-03-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 42nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Welcome, everyone. I beg you all to sign up with your I.D. cards, or tell me who's applying for a replacement card. I hereby declare that the whole of Milger's absence from today's meeting, the Marie of Pěnčíková's work day, the whole of Adámek's work day, the Pleticha of the Lukáš day, the whole of the Jaroslava Jermanová for the Válková of the Kasal day, Jan Bartošek's work Petr for the whole of the working day, Zlatuška Zemánek's work day for the whole of the Helena day, Vostrá Pfléger for the whole of the David day, Jan Urban without giving Lorencová for the whole day, Radim Jakubčík's work day for the whole of the Rutová day, Karel Fiedler for the whole of the Jana day, Vlastimil Vozka for the whole of the Antonín day, Jana Hnyková for the whole of the family Miloslava for the Kučera day, Václav Vilímec for personal reasons and Jitka Chalánková's personal Kristýna also for the Plíšek of the Miloslava Zelienková for the Pavel day, Bohuslav Chalupa for the Margita Balaštíková the working day for the whole of the Marek Ženíšek. The members of the government apologize Jiří Dienstbier for work reasons, Michaela Marksová due to foreign travel, Jan Mládek for family reasons for the whole day, Svatopluk Němeček without reason, Robert Pelikán for personal reasons, Martin Stropnickýý without reason, Karla Šlechtová due to foreign travel and Kateřina Valachová for work reasons also for the whole day. It's just to make sure you know what oral interpelations are and who you can count on this afternoon. František Adámek's colleague is already here, so he's canceling his apology. All the better, because Vice-President Petr Gazdík apologizes, who is from 11 o'clock until the end of the day for personal reasons outside Prague. That should settle the apology today. We will begin today's negotiations in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
