ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-010-037.u1	37. Government bill amending Act No. 253/2008 Coll., on certain measures against the legalization of proceeds from crime and terrorist financing, as amended, and other related laws /house print 752/ - first reading The rapporteur for this press will be Mr Karel Fiedler. I'll ask him to take the floor at the news desk. Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-010-037.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has submitted a bill amending Law No 752 as a press. 253/2008 Coll., on certain measures against the legalization of proceeds from crime and terrorist financing, as amended, and other related laws. This law is, first and foremost, an implementing law whereby it is necessary to bring our legal order into line with the new European Union Directive on the prevention of the use of the financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing, which was adopted in May 2015. Its implementation deadline is two years, but in the context of recent terrorist attacks in Europe, the European Commission called on the European Commission in its Action Plan to strengthen the fight against terrorist financing to implement this Directive as soon as possible, by the end of 2016. For this reason, we would like to propose a shortening of the time for committee discussions to 30 days. The proposed law introduces into the system of combating money laundering and terrorist financing the principle of risk assessment, which will be carried out at all levels from the EU through Member States to individual obliged persons. On the basis of the results of this evaluation, stricter or more moderate requirements regarding the identification and control of the client will apply to clients of obliged persons in specific cases. [[18.20 hours]] Partial changes in accordance with that EU Directive are further addressed, e.g. reducing the amount of cash payment for each entrepreneur to identify his client, from 15 thousand to EUR 10,000, and extending the obligation to some other gambling operators. In accordance with recommendations from the previous evaluation of the Czech Republic by the Moneyval Committee of the Council of Europe, the draft law proposes a change in the status of the institution, which plays the role of so-called. financial reporting agents. This authority is now the Financial Analysis Service as a Department of the Ministry of Finance. It is proposed to establish a separate Financial Analysis Office as an administrative office within the Ministry of Finance. The serious separation of this office's activities from the Ministry of Finance will eliminate the alleged lack of independence and meet these recommendations. Following the requirement to establish a register of beneficial owners of legal persons contained in the above EU Directive and in agreement with the Ministry of Justice, the proposal addresses, inter alia, the transparency of ownership of legal persons by introducing the registration of beneficial owners. I would like to recommend this government bill to accept and proceed to further reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-010-037.u3	I thank the Minister of Finance and Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-010-037.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Newsletter on the bill amending Act No. 253/2008 Coll., it is the House Press 752, as has already been said. The reason for submitting this proposal is the implementation of the new regulations of the European Union on the basis of the recommendations of the G7 Financial Action Committee. The amendment introduces a principle of risk assessment that allows them to take flexible measures within the limits set by international and national standards, to use resources effectively and to implement preventive measures proportionate to the nature of the risks, thereby achieving the most effective direction of their activities. [[States?]] Access to risk assessment requires the active involvement of obliged persons in the prevention and fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. Compulsory persons were also included in gambling operators except for those with negligible risk in terms of money laundering or terrorist financing, e.g. cash or material lotteries, raffles, numerical lotteries, etc. The amendment, as has already been said by the petitioner, further addresses the reduction in the amount of cash payment that each entrepreneur has to identify his client, the amount has been reduced to EUR 10,000, and taking into account the introduction of the trust fund institute. On the recommendation of the Moneyval Committee, it is proposed to establish a separate analytical financial office as an administrative office under the authority of the Ministry of Finance. The Authority will be audited by the Chamber of Deputies and the Government. Both the Director and the majority of employees will be civil servants and will thus be subject to the Civil Service Act. The proposed regulation is in line with the constitutional order and international legal obligations of the Czech Republic. Given the seriousness of this press and the circumstances that this press is dealing with, this amendment, I recommend that this House press be referred to discussion in the House until further reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-010-037.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. First, I state new apologies to the President of the House, namely Mr Rom Kostřica and Mr Vojtěch Adam - until the end of today's day, Mr Rom Kostřica also apologizes for the days 1., 2. and 3. 6. due to a business trip. I open a general debate, I have no written application for it. I see - okay. Standard procedure. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-010-037.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, dear colleagues, let me briefly comment on the subject. This implementation material is quite extensive and affects a number of very important areas in my opinion. The proposed amendment explicitly introduces the principle of risk assessment into the system for combating money laundering and terrorist financing. This is a common European use and we will apply to it with this material. The risk assessment will be carried out at different levels, starting with European levels and ending with individual mandatory persons. This system should help assess the relevance of various risks and thus help to combat money laundering and terrorist financing more effectively. Since this system works or is being introduced abroad, I think, and I will also recommend that we adopt it in our legal order. Due to other legislation is a very interesting regulation of this law around the state of gambling. The existing law against money laundering involves only casinos. Based on the requirements of this Directive, as well as the results of the national risk assessment prepared, this heading has been extended and is proposed to cover almost all gambling operators. This will, of course, bring concrete impacts on a relatively large number of entities in the Czech Republic. What has been mentioned here, and it is very important in my opinion, the proposal also reduces the amounts of cash payments in which each entrepreneur must identify his client. In particular, it is a reduction of EUR 15 000 to EUR 10,000. Some countries already have EUR 5,000, and some even consider introducing a limit of EUR 3,000. This measure will bring further restrictions, which, of course, will affect us here as well as ordinary citizens. The amount of EUR 10,000 may seem relatively high, but I submit that some European countries already have half that amount. The proposal also began to address virtual currencies, such as bitcoins, and includes persons providing services associated with a virtual currency within the scope of the obligations arising under this Act. This can, of course, reduce the attractiveness of this sector of working with this virtual currency. The proposal also addresses the transparency of the ownership of legal entities, taking into account the introduction of the trust fund institute into our legal order or the introduction of a more consistent customer control against domestic politically exposed persons, or against us. By the way, any politician who has in the box that he is a politician will fall out in the first round of the network when assessing the risks as a risky person. Well, it's just for you. Last but not least, in the bill's proposal, it is in line with the recommendation from the previous Moneyval evaluation - this is a regular five-year evaluation, and we are now preparing for further evaluation - the Council of Europe's proposal to change the status of the institution as we have agreed to. This means the Czech Financial Analysis Office as a separate administrative office within the MF, which is the strengthening of its autonomy. On the outskirts, and accompanying materials mention this - the FAO is preparing to strengthen by about 20 workers. The current situation is 41 workers. Of those 61 workers, except for seven, everyone else should do their own financial analytical work. Of course, I think that this increase will have some important implications for the budget. I also recommend that we accept this because the fight against dirt money is a very complex matter, and today we have, for example, a bill on the register of accounts, and that is one of those tools that is consistent with this fight. As regards the reduction of the deadline to 30 days, I will support this for myself, because I consider this material to be important. And, of course, I recommend that we release this material for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-010-037.u7	I thank Mr Adolf Beznosk. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura in the debate now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-010-037.u8	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, nice politically exposed persons. My brief performance will concern, in my opinion, the poorly formulated paragraph and paragraph, who is or is not a politically exposed person. The first thing I would say is that I have no problem with this being a member of Parliament, so it is not really about us. But if you read the diction that's in the paragraph, or at point 17, it actually says that the politically exposed person is the head of state, alright, Prime Minister. There is no longer written by the members of the government - not, perhaps they mean the head of the central body of the government, a minister who is head of the body - the central body of the government. Not all government members lead the central body. That is, if I were to apply this to this government's personnel composition, and if the two functions, which are as if without a portfolio, without a ministry, were not represented by MPs or senators, but by someone who is not a member of Parliament, would not be politically exposed. And I don't think that's the point. I think the purpose is for all of us to be members of the government. And I don't know why it's not simply written in the bill. [[18.30 hours]] Then, for me, an unknown concept is introduced here, a leader of the local government. I think we say mayor, right? We're not saying that he's the head of the local authority. The explanatory statement states that it means the mayor, the mayor, or the captain. I give consideration to whether there should always be a loose word - a loose mayor, for example, because I think that we should not release small communities, call them politically exposed persons, the municipality has a minimum budget, and with that I consider all the restrictions and controls that it concerns unnecessary. [[unintelligible]] On the other hand, I ask what is the difference between the Mayor of Prague and the Deputy Mayor of Prague in terms of judging who he is and who is not a politically exposed person. I'm talking about relaxed. Or a relaxed councilman - now popular in Prague, they are also released by committee chairmen. To strengthen coalition unity, we create paid functions. These are equally politically exposed because they have a similar employment relationship in quotation marks because they do it full-time. So I think we should add that up, and I think using the words we're used to, that means releasing the mayor, releasing the council members, releasing the mayors. I even know the loosed-up Vice-Detectives in our county. It just can happen. We should work if possible... Unless we want to call 6 245 mayors one slam as politically exposed persons. So I would not recommend it, and I would advocate, in particular, the loose mayors, because I don't think that's true of them. Then I would like to ask, not today, perhaps not today, but in the debate on committees, who is a member of the political party's governing body. I'm kind of wondering if he's a member of the statutory body or what he means. And who will judge this in individual political parties? Which one of these bodies - the Bureau, the National Committee, the Executive Board, in our case, the National Assembly? Who's gonna judge, anyway? Who's this about? And whether this will also apply to the paid staff of the political parties. I hope not, but it should be made clear whether, for example, a senior political party official - once again, each party has a different term - is a politically exposed person or is not. These are things that we should be clear about, because I think the interpretation should be absolutely clear and should not be arbitrary. So I suggest that we remove the unreleased members of the government from the list that concerns us and leave all the loose ones there. Those who hold well-paid posts as committee chairmen, such as the Prague City Council. Notice how law enforcement agencies are progressing. Sometimes it's suspicious and we prosecute when someone does a political business, and sometimes we don't. I think the right approach is that it's just political business and that it's part of politics and that the police and prosecutors shouldn't be sticking their noses in it. But we know the cases, and we're about to have a three-year anniversary when the police and prosecutors think that political commerce is something they should prosecute. And that should be clarified. I believe, Minister, that in the definition we will specify who this concerns, who is a politically exposed person, and I recommend that we really focus on all those who are relaxed, and those who are not relaxed, so that they are excluded and judged as all the other citizens of the Czech Republic. And then let's see if we can find a definition of what a member of the political party's governing body is to make it clear to each political party. Because there are often people who are not living in politics, who are neither MPs nor senators, nor relaxed mayors, or loosen up the governor, they have to do their job so that they know in advance when they are nominated or chosen whether they are or are not politically exposed. I think they deserve it so everyone knows. Otherwise, I think the objectives of the law are correct. We can discuss details. But it is certainly a matter that will receive support from members of our club in the final vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-010-037.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ladies and gentlemen, have a nice evening. I wonder if anyone else is joining the debate. Since I don't see anyone - I know that in the introductory words, Minister, you said that you would like to ask for a shorter hearing for 30 days. In order to vote on this proposal, this proposal must be heard in the debate. I ask you, Minister, if you are considering reducing the deadline to 30 days. If so, I ask you to read this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-010-037.u10	So I would like to propose that the law be discussed in committees by reducing the time to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-010-037.u11	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is joining the general debate. If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I ask the appellant and rapporteur if you want to take the final words. I can't see. In that case, we will vote. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. I wonder if anyone else has a proposal for a guarantee committee. It's not like that. In that case, I'll call in colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. I will read the proposal on which we will vote: who agrees that the proposal submitted should be ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee? Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 225, registered 126 Members and Members, for proposal 119, against no one. I note that this proposal has been directed to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I wonder if anyone has a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees for discussion. There's no other suggestion. Okay. In that case, we will vote on a shortening of the time limit for discussion, because in the general debate, a proposal for a reduction to 30 days has fallen. Initiating the vote and asking who is to shorten the deadline to 30 days, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 226, 126 Members and Members, for proposal 67, against 37. I note that the proposal has been approved and the time limit for the hearing has been reduced to 30 days. That concludes the discussion of this point. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
