ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-041-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 41st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. This meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 45 Members. The invitation was distributed to you through the parliamentary clubs on 9 February 2016. I beg you all to sign up with your ID cards. The replacement cards and their numbers are valid as stated at the 39th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We shall now proceed to the designation of two verifiers for the minutes of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mrs Gabriela Pecková and Mrs Kristýna Zelienková. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. Initiating vote on the designation of verifiers for the minutes of this meeting. Whoever is for Mrs Gabriela Pecková and Mrs Kristýna Zelienková, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the number one vote, 124 Members and Members registered, for 120, against one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have designated Ms Gabriela Pecková and Mrs Kristýna Zelienková as the verifiers of the 41st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I confirm that the apologies for today's negotiations are consistent with the apologies made at the 39th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. And now we will proceed to the appointment of the 41st meeting, whose proposal is made on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No amendment or addition of the agenda can be proposed, nor can the approved agenda be extended. The President of the KSČM Vojtěch Filip is the first to report with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-041-01-000-000.u2	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, we have one item in the agenda that we should approve, and my first question is simple: because it is the Prime Minister's information whether the Prime Minister will come. That's the first question. Because I would not like to hear the Prime Minister's information from anyone other than the Prime Minister. That's the first moment. Given the serious nature of the matter, I propose that this meeting should not be public, given that I do not know any resolution adopted by the Defence Committee, the Security Committee or other bodies of the Chamber of Deputies to deal with it, given that it is a matter of intelligence. I am sorry when we talked about this for the first time before there was a proposal from individual Members to convene this meeting, a special meeting under the Rules of Procedure, and so far we have no information other than that which is being held in the press. I believe that this is such a serious security risk for citizens of the Czech Republic that we cannot risk that any information that would continue to be capable of endangering the citizens of the Czech Republic, particularly beyond our borders, beyond the borders of the European Union, is not one that should escape from the Chamber of Deputies. If we blame the Security Council of the State, then we should also decide in a regime that allows us to receive the information, but at the same time treat the information in a way that does not increase the security risk for any of the citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-041-01-000-000.u3	Thank you. To answer the President - I have no information that the Prime Minister has been excused. His name is not in the government's apologies, so the Prime Minister should be present at this meeting, even though he is not here right now. Before I vote on your proposal, the President of the TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek, with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-041-01-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I leave aside the fact that, in our view, this should be addressed not only by the Committees on Security, the Committee on Intelligence Control, but also by the Committee on Constitutional Law, because, in our view, there has been a flagrant violation of international law and the Czech law. And it is not entirely true the Prime Minister's statement that the Czech Government has consistently followed our legal order. We don't think so. But I leave that to a specific debate. President Filip's proposal to keep our negotiations secret has logic, and we are prepared to support him, provided that this is a genuine negotiation. In other words, it makes sense to hold a secret meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, provided that the agenda for this extraordinary meeting is approved. To conceal our actions and then not approve of the extraordinary meeting programme would probably be a mockery not only to the opponents and the entire public. I therefore ask, Mr President, whether - and now I am interpreting the wishes of our President of the Club, I hope that he will not have to go and repeat this - whether there could be a four-minute break before the vote on secrecy, where the factions and club chairs would meet in any corner of this room and whether they were prepared or not to support the agenda for this meeting. If he's backed up, cover's in order. If he was not supported and we were discussing in secret that we would not approve of an extraordinary meeting, then we should not ridicule ourselves in front of the entire nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-041-01-000-000.u5	There. The President of the MP's club agrees with this proposal. I don't suppose he has to recite it again. So, based on this request, I'm interrupting our meeting for four minutes. I ask the presidents of the MPs to consult. So I'm interrupting this House meeting by 12:11 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-041-01-000-000.u6	It's 12 o'clock 11 minutes, we'll continue our adjourned negotiations. President Kalousek, after him President Stanjura, after him President Filip. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-041-01-000-000.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. Thank you for the short break. The decisive majority of the Chamber of Deputies told us by the mouth of the heads of their factions that however much they wish to conceal every word, they do not wish to approve the agenda for this meeting. This, in my opinion, is an unfair game both with the Chamber of Deputies and with the possibility of having a democratic debate on this serious priority, as well as an unfair game with the public. I respect that, I do not criticize it, I note that, but in such a case, Members of the TOP 09 and starosta see no reason to vote on the secrecy of something that will not be approved for the agenda and for which everyone will not be able to act. We wanted to speak with our opinion after the approved agenda of the meeting, so we have nothing but our position and our conviction as to why the government does not want to accept this point on the proper agenda, to speak at the press conference that we convened at 13:00 at the Atrium of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-041-01-000-000.u8	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, President of the ODS, with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-041-01-000-000.u9	Thank you for the floor. I already consulted that question with the President of the Chamber of Deputies yesterday and promised him for our club that we would also support non-public negotiations in the debate before the vote on the agenda. We haven't changed that opinion, so when the vote comes, we'll support him. But a short comment. If we were to judge only our prepared performances, the negotiations might as well be public. We do not want to look into the details of intelligence operations, we do not want to discuss in detail what has been done, what has been done by the secret service, but we are far from sure what the individual members of the government who cannot keep their mouths shut will say, and we will therefore encourage non-public discussions so that we do not expose our public and all the other ill-considered statements of ministers. It was said here that neither the Security Committee had discussed it yet, and so on. I mean, the affair lasts longer than one week. This week, too, the various committees of the Chamber of Deputies meet, for example, this morning, the Committee on European Affairs met before it was launched by the Chamber of Deputies plenary. It is certainly a coincidence that the party colleague of the Minister of Defence, Chairman of the Military Intelligence Control Committee, has not called yet. It didn't just happen, but it wasn't even called. This means that it is probably in the interest of party procedure that this is simply not to be discussed. This, of course, highlights our request and our request that we make today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, and we believe that the government majority will meet us. It is not normal for a government MP to be led by an intelligence control committee. It's not normal. Even on the same side, to whom the responsible ministry belongs. And then it turns out that it's very convenient in times of crisis. That the one who has the right to call... Those excuses, you write down your signatures, and if I have to, you bring me those signatures, I'll call it in. Those are really childish excuses. So, instead of calling in such a serious matter, the Chairman of the Military Intelligence Commission is restoring the Svazarm to us, at the same time saying that there will be mandatory contributions to the military and other non-current issues, instead of focusing on what the Chamber of Deputies has chosen him for and put him in charge of this important commission. So we are prepared to support the proposal that has been made, because we assume that at least those who are given priority rights, and those who are much more in government and government clubs than in opposition, will say something about it. If it turns out that they won't even get off, that they'll keep their mouths shut, as is their good habit, then it'll be useless. But we're giving it a chance. The fact that you're afraid to engage in a debate with other MPs tells us about you, not us. We've been saying from the beginning that we're in favour of private negotiations. And then I have a question for Mr. Vice President. I'm a rather young MP. I'm here for the second term, I haven't seen it yet, not in public negotiations, so I'd like to ask you for information if we approve it, and we'll support it as technically such negotiations take place. Because I didn't experience it during those two parliamentary periods. And this also shows that the situation is quite extraordinary and extremely serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-041-01-000-000.u10	So, before I give the floor to Vice-President Filip, I will comply with President Stanjur and read to him a few things from the Rules of Procedure or about how non-public negotiations take place. A shorthanded report shall be drawn up on non-public negotiations only if the House so decides; in such a case, the House shall also decide whether a shorthanded report is to be published and shall determine the scope and method of publication. It is Article 68 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning Furthermore, information on the outcome of the vote shall not be published in electronic form in the case of non-public ballots, § 76 para. 3. The grounds for non-public meetings of the House shall be served on Members and written proposals shall be submitted only in paper form § 120e. It should be noted that the handling of documents containing classified information is carried out in accordance with Act No. 412/2005 Coll., on the protection of classified information and security competence. It should also be noted that if a speaker, a Member of the Government or a Member wishes to talk about classified information, this must be notified in advance, including the level of confidentiality of the information. The President shall subsequently adjourn the meeting at the necessary time for a meeting with the Security Service of the Chamber of Deputies. If it's a higher level of security, then cell phones are switched off to be precise... surrendering, sorry. So, is this information enough? Now with priority rights, Vice-President Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-041-01-000-000.u11	Thank you, Mr President. It's just why I think that - and I thank my colleague Stanjur that he will be voting on the secrecy now. You know, I can't really talk about the agenda without worrying about what this speech will do in the House. And that's why I don't understand my colleague Kalousek's position in a way. I've only had one meeting in a secret mode, and I believe that shutting down mobile phones is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-041-01-000-000.u12	Now with priority rights, President Černoch, and then I will vote if no one else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-041-01-000-000.u13	Thank you. I just want to ask you really how it's going to go, because the shutting down of cell phones about today, nowadays in technology, isn't gonna stop it from getting out. We are, of course, in favour of approving the draft meeting, because we would like to propose the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry, because we consider this incident to be very serious. But I'm more interested in the technical stuff that's gonna happen, because I'm not really sure that information's gonna get out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-02-12-ps2013-041-01-000-000.u14	I've read how it's going to go down. I think the information's good enough. I am now going to vote on the proposal from Vice-President Filip that the 41st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies is not to be published. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. I'm signing you all off, and I'm asking you to sign up with your voting cards. I will read the motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies declares the 41st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies not to be published.' I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote of order number 2, 145 Members and Members, for 126, against 1. The motion was accepted. Furthermore, please note that according to § 68 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not be issued a stenographic record during non-public negotiations unless someone else has a proposal. It's not like that. I am now declaring a ten-minute recess to ensure that the private negotiations take place within 12.31 hours.
