ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-007-034.u1	34. Government bill amending Act No. 262/2006 Sb., Labor Code, as amended, and other related laws /house print 903/ - first reading Thank you, Minister, for staying at the rapporteur's desk. I will ask that the rapporteur also take his place at the rapporteur's table for first reading, Chairman of the Committee Jaroslav Zavadil. Madam Secretary, you have the floor, and I thank the rapporteur for being in his place. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-007-034.u2	Mr President, Members, allow me to mention the Government's bill amending Act No. 62/2006 Coll., Labour Code, as amended, and other related laws. I would like to say that this proposal is the result of joint negotiations between representatives of both social partners who have agreed on the need to amend the employment code and includes substantive changes aimed at deepening the flexibility of basic employment relations while strengthening the protection of employee status in these employment relations as well as in responding to the requirements of practice. The amendment has indeed been discussed for a very long time and we consider it a compromise proposal. This amendment, for example. introduces a new category of top management staff with a special regime, which mainly concerns their working time, somehow protects employees if the employer converts them to another job, so that it is not just unilateral, regulates the issue of agreements on work done outside employment again towards greater protection of employees, e.g. more especially mother, respectively. parents of young children, because if they ask, as it is in accordance with the Labour Code, for adjustments, for example shorter working hours or any other adjustment, so if the employer fails to comply with them, they may refer to serious operational reasons, which they will now have to document in writing, which they are. There is also a guarantee of return to the original work at the workplace after parental leave, not only after maternity leave. And there are a number of adjustments that you people know about. So I believe you will support this government bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-007-034.u3	I thank the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová and ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Jaroslav Zavadil to present his report. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-007-034.u4	Good evening, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I've only been very brief. I would just like to add that this proposed legislation mainly addresses the problems of applying the Labour Code in practice and the compliance of our legislation with the EU case law. I'd like to underline that. Of course, she's already responding to what the Minister said about the legitimate needs of practice. I would just like to say briefly that this proposed bill is perfectly in accordance with constitutional law No. 1. It is in accordance with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, whether it is Article 28 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, or whether it is with Article 27 of the Charter. It has no fatal impact on the budget of the Czech Republic. I'd like to underline that, too. Nor does this proposal imply that there is a great burden on employers' organisations. As has already been said, they have come to harmony with the tripartite between these two institutions. I assume that, of course, on the floor of the guarantee committee, which I think you will approve, that it will be a guarantee committee on social policy, we will then talk about some nuances, and of course there will be land to talk about some amendments. That is all on my part, Mr President. I presume we will release this proposal to second reading so that we can deal with it in the committees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-007-034.u5	I thank the rapporteur, Jaroslav Zavadil. I am opening a general debate. I have two applications for it, but my colleague Stanislav Grospič is duly excused, so it is the chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura with priority rights. Mrs. Adamová will be ready. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-007-034.u6	I must say that both the Minister and the rapporteur have put me under stress, and this will no longer be admissible under certain considerations regarding the amendment of the Labour Code. And I'll tell you why. I learned it was in line with constitutional order, which I assumed when it was a government bill. I couldn't think of anything else. Then I learned as if the general formulation of the type - the flexibility of employment relationships will increase and, at the same time, the position of the employee will be strengthened, which I think is a little against each other. But so be it. But unfortunately, we didn't learn anything that was the subject of the bill. Nothing in particular. Yes, it's been a long debate. Someone agreed on it. This meets all the prerequisites of the Czech rule of law as well as international obligations and the Constitution. But that I would know specifically, because I am not a member of the Social Committee, and I will probably not be able to discuss this in detail on the Social Committee... So I don't know if it's that time, or if you don't think it's necessary to tell us what the content is except for general formulas. But we could say that from a job on every bill that's government. I can handle it, because I assume that the Government's bill is in line with constitutional order and our international legal obligations, and that there has been a broad debate and that it seems to have great support. I have just recorded the debate in a rather heated manner, and I would like to know, in particular, from the petitioners and the rapporteur, whether they are preparing any amendments. For example, about stress, home office etc. What all went on in public space before the bill came to the Chamber of Deputies. I just don't know. I'd like to ask you next time if we can get more specific information about the bill, because in the general... Those were the exact sentences read by the Minister, which I read with my finger in the explanatory memorandum. The greater flexibility of employment relations with the current strengthening of employee status. I understand that such sentences must be there, but I would like to ask for some concrete information on why we are discussing this bill, how it will be better for employees and how it will be better for employers. I don't think that's such an extraordinary requirement if we're discussing an amendment to the Labour Code. Thank you, and I hope to get information, if not today, maybe during second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-007-034.u7	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. Now in a proper debate, Mrs Markéta Adamová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-007-034.u8	Thank you for the floor. I know it is already an advanced hour, ladies and gentlemen, but we are discussing a rather fundamental amendment and one of the really large amendments to the Labour Code, which affect the labour market. And the next thing he doesn't think he's gonna get to, the amendment to the Employment Act, we might as well just assign it to that because it brings about major changes. I was also not satisfied with the comments submitted, because what contains the explanatory note is, in many cases, a little odd. And when you read into the bill itself, you'll find that the words about flexibility, which are a lot of reason messages, are actually kind of a contradiction to what the law solves. I would like to say here, first of all, that this proposal brings a number of substantive changes, but also a whole passage of terminology reworked sections. In a number of cases, of course, this is to the detriment of the fact that the continuity of law and the new terminology of ordering and numbering of sections and heads are also an important element of legal certainty, and the transfer of provisions from one part of the law to another makes it difficult to guide the law. Also, many new references to other provisions of the law in the form of a numerical reference - I have specific examples here, but they are likely to get to the committee meeting - significantly complicate the effective application of the law. The reasoned report claims that the aim is to deepen labour flexibility. However, the actual processing of the amendment goes in the opposite direction, to the unnecessary detailed preciseing of items which need not be regulated by law, or can only be modified by framework. I presume that I will propose a rejection of the law not because I would perhaps think that adjustments to the Labour Code are not necessary and that we do not need to amend this important standard, but because, as the government, by extension, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is presenting it to us, I think that it is really possible to consider it a pasquil. [[18.50 hours]] If I were to comment on individual substantive changes, for example, the introduction of a new category of top employees is completely unnecessary. In addition, it is poorly conceived because the criterion for classification in this category is the amount of income. I guess we all feel it's nonsense. It would be sufficient to lay down a general provision that for managers, the employer may refrain from registering the period worked and in such a case, the cost of work does not belong over time. It would be simple, elegant, and it would be used. That way it will only become another appendix to the law, which will gradually be refined, so that with great effort nothing will be achieved, because in practice employers will not make use of this provision at all. Minor, in particular parametric changes are proposed for the adjustment of working hours and flexible working hours including transfer to another part of the law and mass redundancies, the processing of the social plan. A fundamental change is the calculation of the leave, where the current method of calculating the leave and the time worked for calculating its entitlement to days is changed to the hours granted and the hours worked. This will remove some minor irregularities, especially in exchange operations with uneven working time, but the registration and calculation will, in my opinion, be much more complex and laborious than before. In the absence of an unforgivable employee, it will no longer be possible to shorten the holiday by one to three days, but only by a missed time. This is a step in the absolutely wrong direction, because the preventive effects of this penalty reduction of leave were very important for potential absentees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-007-034.u9	I understand you, Madame. I'd have to stop you at 7:00 anyway, because no one suggested continuing the lawsuit after 7:00. Of course, your application for the debate is preserved. You will, of course, be the first in the debate after the suspension of the meeting, because Mr Grospič's application will remain at the end. So far, there are only two of you logged in, and I'm still registering an application for an actual comment by Miroslav Opálka. So, my colleague, I have no choice but to ask you to complete your speech on the continuation of this interrupted point when it is re-established. I beg the peace of the House, there is an organizational matter to be resolved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-007-034.u10	Thank you, Mr President, and perhaps in a better atmosphere next time, because this is a really important standard. Perhaps colleagues will be able to perceive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-25-ps2013-050-05-007-034.u11	I believe it will be more dignified. Ladies and gentlemen, I am interrupting this point. At the same time, I'm interrupting the House of Deputies meeting by 9 a.m. tomorrow morning when we start with paragraph 175, the Civil Code, according to the approved agenda. Then we would continue with the subject or the main subject of this meeting, and that is the state budget. There are other points, but we'll see about that. Have a good evening and I look forward to seeing you tomorrow.
