ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-003-062.u1	62. Government bill amending Act No. 285/2002 Coll., on donation, collection and transplantation of tissues and organs and on the amendment of certain laws (transplantation Act), as amended /German press 811/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted in this case will also be made by the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-003-062.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly mention the current government bill amending the transplant law. This transposition amendment is closely linked to the government's current draft amendment to the Human Tissues and Cells Act, which was here before. The main objective of the proposal for an amendment to the Transplant Act is the transposition of Commission Directive 2015/566 of 8 April 2015 implementing Directive 2004/23 as regards procedures for verifying equivalent quality and safety standards for imported tissues and cells, and is merely a technical modification. Other partial objectives of the proposed law include the correction of terms following the new Civil Code and the elimination of legislative technical errors in the current wording of the Act. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, given the bill that has now been tabled, you will support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-003-062.u3	Thank you, Minister. In this case, I also ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Leoš Heger. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-003-062.u4	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has submitted a bill to the House 11. 5. 2016 similar to the previous law. The law was sent to Members on the same day as the press 811/0. The Organizing Committee recommended the draft law for discussion by its resolutions 278, designated the rapporteur and proposed the Health Committee as a guarantee. Now let me read the news report, which will be slightly longer than the previous report. I'll explain why that will happen in a moment. I will now just point out that this concerns the great technical complexity of this issue mentioned here in the previous item by Mr Hovorka. And I will touch some things, which is why I did not respond in the previous paragraph. The main objective of the amendment proposal, as Minister Němeček said, is the transposition of the 2015 European Union Commission Directive No. 566, implementing Directive 2004/23/EC as regards procedures for verifying equivalent quality and safety standards for imported tissues and cells. These objectives are implemented in four very simple text amendments points 18 to 20 and 22. The other 18 also focus on legislative technical adaptations and revisions of terms following the new Civil Code in connection with the status of persons who are not fully entitled. I'm not going to discuss them in detail here, and I'm just going to focus on the translation points. In the introduction, I will just point out that the deadline for implementing European legislation is the end of April 2017. [[10.20 hours]] As I said, the submitted transposition is legislatively quite simple, and I assume that it will not create more significant political disputes, but, on the other hand, I must state that the systems for ensuring the quality and safety of procurement, processing, distribution and medical use of organs, tissues and cells are extremely complex. Their description is scattered in three national laws, mentioned by Mr Hovorka, namely the Act on transplantations No. 285/2002 Coll., whose amendment we are dealing with, and further in the Act on Tissues and Cells No. 296/2008 Coll., which we dealt with a while ago, as well as in the Act on Medicines No.378/2007 Coll. These three laws are subject to several EU directives that have been created at different times, and these directives are transposed into these laws of ours and into the key specifying decree No. 422/2008 Coll., on the establishment of more detailed requirements for ensuring the quality and safety of human tissues and cells. Since this whole legislative complex was being created gradually, the work of health professionals and other involved persons is governed by this legislation by a rather complex matter, not to mention the supervision of the state of compliance with the proper procedures under this legislation. Similarly, the amendment of that legislation is technically an extremely difficult thing to handle very carefully. Transpositional adjustments to the system described, which is now being presented to us by the Ministry of Health, are, as I have already submitted, relatively simple and clear and I will try to explain their purpose. The transposition is at a few points, but somehow interference with the system is difficult to explain. That's why I'm going to say a few general things. Removed tissues and cells are divided into two categories. One category consists of those intended for direct immediate use, it is called the fresh mode in the hobby, and they are transplanted immediately, similar to organs, e.g. commonly known kidneys or liver, or so-called composite tissues such as hand or face. This sphere overlaps with organ transplantation, and in this sphere, registers of donors and recipients and waiting lists of beneficiaries are kept. Everyone knows this - the waiting list for a kidney is often discussed as being relatively long. In essence, the transposition into the transplant system described in this way moves those tissues and cells which are medically used immediately without keeping them in stock and are intended in advance for a specific waiting recipient. These cells are basically used in transplant regimens. The most common example is so called. bone marrow transplantation. In addition, for the supervision of the entire transplant system, the Ministry of Health is set up an office called the Coordination Centre for Transplantation, KST, which oversees the entire agenda and maintains part of the established registries. The second category of tissues and cells is called. minimally manipulated tissues and cells which are not intended for immediate use. These tissues and cells of tissue establishments, alias tissue banks, under the Act on Tissues and Cells, investigate, process, preserve, store and subsequently distribute. Basically, they are products that are produced, unlike transplant products, for storage. The European Directive allows the transplantation of these minimally manipulated tissues and cells to remain outside the sphere of the Coordination Centre by transplantation, since in practice it is not possible to centrally monitor these specific products in connection with a particular recipient, as is now monitored by tissues and cells intended for direct administration. Just products that are made for storage are much more than those that go to transplants. Health services in which grafts from minimally manipulated tissues and cells are used provide a wide range of health service providers, often also outpatiently, e.g. Orthopaedics, traumaology, neurosurgery, burn medicine or eye medicine, and, as I said, the numbers of these performances are considerable. Therefore, these tissues and cells remain under the existing regime. This is what the European directive allows. The traceability of grafts and patient safety is sufficiently ensured in tissue establishments as well as the standard donor and tissue and cell records taken so far, keeping records of processing and distribution to health service providers, as already imposed by the Act on tissues and cells. This does not require a central register of beneficiaries who are sufficiently registered with specific providers of relevant health services. The selected regime of two views on tissues and cells is realized in the transposition point No. 18 Amendment to the Transplant Act in which dictions change in § 18 para. 5 and in transposition point No. 20, which amends § 25 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (e). In addition to the above, the transposition concerns two further details. The import and export of tissues and cells, as well as the import of tissues and cells from third countries, is approved by the Ministry of Health, which in accordance with Act No. 296/2008 Sb., on tissues and cells, and Act No. 285/2002 Coll., Transplant Act, grants import and export permits also for tissues and cells. Therefore, in order to comply with the European Directive, it is necessary to specify the tissues imported from third countries and to distinguish whether they are tissues intended for direct use or those which have been tampered with in some way. This is used by the transposition point No. 21 correcting § 26a v par. 2 (a), which allows the transition to a single European code, which is specified in the transposition amendment to the Act on Tissues and Cells, which we discussed in the previous point. The last detail in the transposition concerns providers of health services who work in the immediate transmission mode of tissues and cells, i.e. in the so-called. transplant regimen, transplant tissues and cells for direct immediate use. In the amendment point No. 19 they are obliged to report to the National Register of Organ Transplantations also performed tissue and cell transplantation, which are intended for direct transfer to the body. I apologize that my intelligence report was somewhat longer and more detailed, because the explanatory memorandum accompanying the bill is quite difficult to grasp, and I have therefore tried to make it somewhat more understandable for those who are not consensual in this very complex and extremely specialized issue. Finally, I recommend releasing the law to second reading, where there will be a place to discuss any details of the whole, I repeat, very extraordinary procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-003-062.u5	Thank you, too. I am opening up a general debate and asking if anyone is applying for it. I do not register any applications, in which case I end the general debate. I ask whether you want final words from the appellant or rapporteur. It's not like that. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Health as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? I don't see a suggestion. We will take the vote. I will read the motion for a resolution. Who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee? Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 136, 143 Members and Members registered, for proposal 108, against no one. I note that this proposal has been approved and the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to other committees, so I ask whether there are further proposals for the commandments for discussion in other committees. It's not like that. If there are no other proposals, thank you and I am done discussing this press. At the same time, I shall pass on the proceedings of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-003-062.u6	Good morning, dear colleagues. The next item is also an item from the workshop of Minister Svatopluk Němeček. It's...
