ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-011-211.u1	211. Annual report on the activities of Czech Television in 2014 /German press 441/ It's an interrupted point. We dealt with this press on 10 and 17 December last year at the 36th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when we interrupted it in the general debate. I ask that Mr Miroslav Grebeníček take his place at the rapporteur's table, and we continue with the interrupted general debate in which I have the following applications: Mr Kolovratník, Mr Bendl and Mr Valenta. A colleague of Kolovratník is not here, I do not see him, or his application falls to the end of the proceedings. And my colleague Bendl probably hasn't counted on it yet, but he's not excused. So it's the same thing. And so we have Mr Valenta's application, who is present. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-011-211.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, not only in response to my previous speaker, Mr Komárek, who spoke at the last session in December, I would like to make a brief statement on this issue once more, and, as you may well expect, in a rather fundamentally different way than the previous speaker. The last time I spoke to this point on my taste was very much before the last, in order for the second interruption of negotiations on this point, as already said by Mr President, in December last year. Perhaps I will be a little lucky right now, and my contribution, Mr Komárek, will also not be included in the category of frequent House slapping, as he has tried to do for the last time quite clumsy and unsubstantiatedly, in connection with the speech of the rapporteur in this report. But what bothers me more than idle subjective labeling is his incomprehensible attempt to create an amendment that should merge annual reports on the activities and management of Czech Television to discuss the House into one point in the future. A person who today claims to be critical of the monitoring work of the Czech Television Council, and in this role, Mr Komárek also explicitly put himself on display, cannot be indifferent to the fact that apples and pears should newly be mixed into an increasingly less transparent cocktail and the parliamentary supervision carried out also in a greater time frame would become even more difficult. Speaking, I ask whether it is not more about the House losing so much necessary insight into the already complex issues, and in whose behalf it does so. In favour of the dealers, I believe that unfortunately not. You know, colleagues and colleagues, it has already often been in good intentions and faith, which has been put forward in the direction of the activities or economics of Czech Television, and it will fit very quickly and very suspiciously. And this is nothing less than an assessment of the quality of television broadcasting provided by a public body with a multibillion-dollar budget. And so I must reject any attempts to ignore the control, and therefore also my colleague Komárek's attempt, quite fundamentally. Now I would try to correct my, let's say, some mistake that I see in my rhetorical abhorrence and also the fact that, before the interruption of this point in December, I was perhaps not very clear about the fate of this report. Let's do it again and more clearly. I suggest the honourable House not accept this annual report. We will send a warning signal not only to our Czech Television but also to the Council of Czech Television that a significant part of our public is grossly dissatisfied with the ways and content of information, so it is necessary to start working very quickly on the remedy. The reasons that lead me to the proposed non-reception of the report, I find five main reasons. I note that these are really the reasons for my point of view only the most fundamental ones. Firstly, I believe that Czech television is not fully subordinate to the imperative to discover and convey to viewers a true picture of reality. Secondly, in line with a significant part of the Czech public, and in my contact network it is a vast majority of people, I believe that Czech television does not fulfil the basic obligation to provide objective, verified, balanced and versatile information in its whole for the free creation of citizens' views, which naturally does not concern the defence of the patterns of opinion of certain elites. In one of the resolutions of the Czech Television Ethics Panel, which is the advisory body of the Director-General, it is said that impartiality is also important for the functioning of the public media in addition to balance. For example, viewers should not be able to recognize the attitude of media workers themselves on the subject from the appearance of the presenter of the discussion programme. And you think how you're all sitting here, that it really is? I don't think so. [[12.40 hours]] Thirdly, the activity of Czech Television in 2014 characterizes the percentage reduction in the ability to transmit the true image of reality, the diversity of views presented in broadcasting, perceived objectivity, versatility and balance of information, the perceived contribution of Czech Television to the legal awareness of citizens of the Czech Republic. The percentage of satisfaction with news coverage of publicist and discussion programmes has also decreased, etc. Fourthly, the Czech Television Council has been forced to deal with 239 complaints and, in particular, critical initiatives, and I fear that even such a high number is not yet final, it is not entirely objective and complete. Some complainants have warned me for a long time about how their complaints were handled, both by the Council and Czech Television itself. But it bothers me especially with the Czech Television Council, because it produced 8. 2. 2012 the so-called rules on handling complaints and complaints and approved them by its resolution No. 49/3/12. So the public could get the impression that there's going to be a fix. Unfortunately, few people know that these rules no longer contain the wording of decisions on complaints, but only provide for their handling, i.e. it is a very vague and exploitable concept in my opinion. Fifthly, and at the very end, the most serious reason. I am afraid that artificially induced and very sophisticatedly accelerated dissatisfaction with the broadcast of Czech Television could find a breeding ground for dealers no longer for the parametric but systemic transformation of a public organisation into a private or semi-private entity. To put it simply, why should citizens actually pay for such services when they think what one concerned viewer has said on the Internet? I quote: "Czech television acts like a state in the state. She got rid of her vital control and created an ideological space that allows for the devastation of society without any moral constraints. No one has the courage to openly fight the leadership of Czech Television. We are unable to defend an ideology that just destroys our cultural awareness and tries to turn us into an unthinking flock." Some political charlatans would very much like to welcome the social tendency to privatise the public media and to do so very quickly, which we must not allow as elected representatives of the people. From what political angles there is opposition to everything that is not private and that does not resonate in the ears individualistically and elitistly, I may not even have to say here. By the way, we were recently able to convince ourselves of this when discussing the law on the register of contracts in connection with the state enterprise Budvar. By privatizing the public media, the process of oligarchizing our society to the complete satisfaction of some individuals and interest groups could be further successfully saturated. This must be avoided. Public television media must remain in service to all citizens in the future, despite its occasional biased and tender intelligence activity or suspicious facts about its economy. [[unintelligible]] All of this can be fixed. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-011-211.u3	Thank you, Mr Valent. We will continue the debate. I've checked my apologies. A colleague of Mr. Kolovratník is duly excused, so his application is forfeit entirely. Mr Martin Komárek and then colleague Bendl, duly signed up for the debate. Please, Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-011-211.u4	Mr Valenta, through Mr President, you do not know what I said. And most importantly, you don't know anything about Czech TV. Have you ever read the Czech Television Act? Do you know what the Czech Television Council is doing? How can you say that Czech TV can be privatized? Yes, we can privatize it if we agree, let's say, constitutionally. Members can do virtually anything in the country because they are legislators. Yes. I'm not gonna raise my hand for it, of course. But when you ran into me, you didn't get me at all. Of course, I criticize, and I have spoken many times on this subject both in the House and in the committee, that television is not sufficiently controlled in terms of public money flows. The control is really weak, I'd say zero. I constantly blame the Czech Television Council. But she is resisting the fact that her powers are really small, and I would like to see these powers increased. But what I really don't want, and I think it's completely unnecessary for us to vent our private opinions here on some of the shows or whether the TV stepped on our chicken eye or complimented our opponent. It's just something that never leads anywhere. Besides, that's not our place. Our predecessors have actually constructed the law by giving television a very high degree of autonomy, a very high degree of self-regulation, and the only body that has the right and duty to assess whether it is objective or not objective is the Czech Television Council. The same is true in pale blue for Czech Radio. So please, Mr Valenta, through Mr President, read the Czech Television Act, read the Broadcasting Act. Then talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-011-211.u5	Thank you for keeping time. My colleague Bendl is a little unlucky because the performance by Komárek brought up two more factual points. The first is Mr Valenta's, and the second is Mr Heger. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-011-211.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A colleague Komárek yours. Dear colleague, you haven't listened to me at all. I didn't share any of my subjective views on any of the shows. I was merely quoting the facts from the annual report of Czech Television. As an MP, perhaps I have the right. Is that what you'd like to forbid me? When I spoke, I spoke to you mainly because I do not like your activity when you want to merge the discussion into one point about the activity report and the management of Czech television in the future. And now I'm gonna read you what you're here -- if you don't remember -- last time he said, "I'm not taking anybody in the House the right to high-five what he wants. There is a lot to say," Komárek says, "but in fact the House only deals with the work of the Czech Television Council or the Czech Radio Council, which is responsible to the House. I can criticize and I am critical of the monitoring work of the Czech Television Council, and I firmly hope that the House will have a better opportunity to assess the report if the House accepts the proposal for a simple amendment, which we have incorporated in the Election Committee and which proposes the merger of these reports on activity and on management into one." That's what you said, and I criticized it. Nothing less. The rest of what I was talking about was based only on the annual report. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-011-211.u7	I thank my colleague Valent for keeping time on the point of fact. Now, with Mr Leoš Heger's point of fact and then Mr Komárek's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-011-211.u8	Thank you for the floor. I would take the liberty of commenting personally, because no one from the right-wing section of the spectrum, from the great speakers, is performing here, so I'm sorry I have to say this. But I do think that the repeated speeches made here by Mr Valenta really cannot be regarded as an objective assessment of media activity, in this case television, but that they are highly subjective. I didn't hear a quote from some opinion poll. We have institutions here, such as journalistic faculties, which like to take up such research. But just the saying "in my contact network most people think" suggests that we're dealing with subjective opinions here. My view that Czech Television and Czech Radio are part of the media remains that are really independent is subjective and I would never deny it. But saying such dramatic convictions here based on subjective opinions is really wrong, and I am quite clearly opposed to what my colleague Valenta has said here, as far as my neighbor is in the hallway in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-011-211.u9	I thank Mr Heger for keeping time on the point of fact. Now, Mr Martin Komárek's factual comment, then a duly registered colleague, Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-011-211.u10	I apologize to Mr. Bendl. Oh, Mr. Valenta, please, you've got it all mixed up. It's the same as if I were trying to be expert on the law or the treaty on complex substances that are poisoning or infecting our environment and whose name I don't even know. You just don't know it at all, through the President, Mr Valenta. The merger of reports, that was the opinion that emerged from this House's negotiations. Almost all the speakers signed up for it. It's been a long time, you can't remember. And what I said in my speech is not some high-five, it's an MP's bill that you have as press under number 708, if I'm right, but I can be wrong here, and it's signed by Members virtually across all political parties. As far as I know, it wasn't the MPs on your part. But it's a seriously meant design that I think has a head and a heel. Because, Mr. Valent, when you invite a plumber home, it's that the plumber sends you a message after a year that he dug something for you, put something on, put something on, and that he's wearing pink overalls, and in the next six months, he's gonna send you a message that it cost you $50,000? After all, this is completely pointless - separating activity from what it costs. That is why it is perfectly reasonable and wise to merge these reports, and we will only be able to properly assess whether the money is being spent economically. This is extremely difficult. So please, Mr Valenta, don't get on TV anymore, through Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-011-211.u11	Well, thank you for keeping time. I must disappoint my colleague Bendl, and my colleague Kučera has made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-011-211.u12	Thank you for the floor. So I have to stand up for my fellow Valenta here a little bit, and really turn against the challenges, so that he only gets on topics where he has a college degree or is some certified expert. I think we are in the Chamber of Deputies and every Member has the right to speak on any subject. And those challenges, let only the one who is educated in a given field, has certification and a given authorization, do not really belong to Czech parliamentarianism. It is a strange concept of the Czech House in the submission of the ANO movement. It's not the first time I've heard an expert speak. I would like to point out that it was here before that representatives of individual expert associations had representation in the other parliament, I believe it was in pre-war Italy. And as the system was called, I'm sure we all know that. But I'd hate for that kind of system to come back here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-011-211.u13	I thank Mr Kučer and Mr Komárek, once again, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-011-211.u14	We've got a gunfight of a reasonable man who's me and two mucks. [[laughter from the right side of the courtroom]] While Mr. Valenta is a mess, let's just say, on a matter of fact, I'd say Mr. Kučera is a mess on purpose. He knows well that I did not claim and did not want to claim that only experts on the subject should be present here. I was simply saying that what Mr. Valenta said was factually wrong to be confused. I just insist. That's what I told him. You, Mr Kučera, through Mr President, certainly had the same experience of his speech, but since your mantra is constantly meaninglessly insulting the ANO movement, you used it. So I'm going to return the same to you, and I'm going to say, I'm going to assume that the traditional parties are doomed. [[Coins]] I just said it like you just insulted the YES movement. I do not understand why you are doing this, through Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-011-211.u15	Well, thank you. I would like us to get back on the subject, but do I have here a factual comment from the President of the Social Democracy Club Roman Sklenák, then an application with the priority right of Mr Černoch - also factual? - and a colleague of Benešík also de facto. So three factual points, Mr. Mr. Sklenák first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-011-211.u16	I am sorry, Mr President, that I will not hear your call to return to the subject, because I consider it necessary for me to respond to my previous speakers and to stand up for both my colleagues Valenta and Mr Kučera. Because, indeed, Comrade Komárek, I think that if anyone here is confused, most of the House thinks they're completely different from the people you've marked.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-011-211.u17	Thank you. Now, Mr Marek Černoch, on a point of fact, then Mr Benešík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-011-211.u18	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would also like to Komárek that I do not think that you are the only one who is smart enough to call my colleagues a mistake. And only to be objective, maybe subjective. Ask people outside what they think about the objectivity of public media. We have our own experience as politicians. The space we have on Czech television, for example, is minimal. And if anybody says we're gonna do it the way you feel about it, we're gonna say that we can have any opinion. If we're not breaking the law, then we have the right to say our opinion on TV and it's up to the audience to choose whether or not they're going to take our opinion as right. But there really is no objectivity in public media.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-011-211.u19	I thank Mr Marek Černoch for keeping time in his factual remark. Mr Benešík's point of order, then Mr Kalousek's point of order. No, okay. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-011-211.u20	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also respond briefly. I'm not an expert on media, nor on Czech television. But when a colleague, Mr Komárek, spoke here, I immediately remembered the winged saying: When I was young, I was conceited. I'm not wrong anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-011-211.u21	Yes, thank you. Now I'm asking my colleague Kalousek if he's insisting on his point of fact. Mr President, I ask my colleague Kalousek if he insists on his point of fact. He's downloading. Okay, in that case, a factual remark from the Secretary of Defense. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-011-211.u22	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to apologize to you with this. The points that were supposed to be on the agenda will be missed. I'm very sorry about that. These were fascinating points, such as flights, exercises, etc., but for me the democratic debate was very informative and I am glad for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-011-211.u23	Thank you, Secretary of Defense Martin Stropnický. He has drawn very little time from the factual point of view. We can therefore continue, by speaking to Mr Bendl, who is enrolled in the debate. But I'm asking my colleague Bendl if he's okay, given that he's applied and I'd move him a second time, so if he wants to perform, or if he's gonna keep it for the next time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-011-211.u24	I think that it would be beneficial for us to vote on this report already. I've been provoked in the past by that frontal attack on Czech television. I, as a person who has always been critical and has been reporting in particular the budgets of Czech television, am even one of the co-authors of the great media law in the past, which has worked so far, so I wanted to blow the spikes off the frontal attack. However, I understand that some Members will always complain that something was little or less objective. Such views are always found, and even often they will be true. However, I don't think we're supposed to be dealing with this here and now, that we're suffering from a little childhood disease and that we're supposed to be more mature and we're supposed to be busy. Especially in the election committee, that's where we should discuss it. Thank you for your attention, and I'd rather be short.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-011-211.u25	Well, thank you. That was the last one entered into the debate. I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the scene. If not, I'll try to finish this point. I will therefore call on the speaker's final word for the committee, Mr Grebeníček, so that we can then proceed to the debate in detail. [[Rapporteur]] You want the final word, Mr. Ambassador, don't you?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-011-211.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the 441 voter committee, in order to honour my task, I consider it appropriate, in conclusion, to state very briefly some of the facts which have been interpreted in a rather peculiar way in the debate. I also consider it necessary to dispel some of the misunderstandings and to stress the essentials. First of all, as regards my role as rapporteur, I would like to remind myself that it was and is firmly defined by the resolution of the electoral committee of 6 June last year. At that time, as rapporteur for the Committee, I was empowered to - I quote: "At the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I reported on the annual report on the activities of Czech Television in 2014 at the meeting of the Election Committee." I have therefore provided you with this factual information in accordance with the committee resolution, and I have also informed you, as I have been ordered, of the resolution of the electoral committee which has recommended that the report be approved. Since I have reported to you on the discussion by the Czech Council of the Czech Republic on the annual reports on the activities of Czech Television for 2014, I see nothing inappropriate in the case that in the debate at the Chamber of Commons, anyone has decided to speak on this very topic, namely the report on the activities of Czech Television, on how they fulfil their responsibilities. public service media. Yes, the President of the Election Committee has also spoken. That is probably why I had to hear in the galleys afterwards that for some of you it was surprising his request that the activities of Czech television be not discussed and that instead of this discussion the Chamber of Deputies would limit it only to the discussion of the activities of the Council of the Czech Republic. The chairman of the electoral committee literally said: I ask that the House act in a qualified manner, i.e. she assessed the work of the Council of Czech Television, or the Council of Czech Radio, not these media as such. The questions raised between the rapporteur's report and the President of the Election Committee's observations and the interest in explaining and resolving the situation where the President of the Election Committee explicitly called for the limitation of the debate in plenary, namely that the Chamber of Deputies should not discuss the annual report submitted on the activities of Czech Television, but limited itself to the discussion on the activities of the Council of the Czech Republic, I consider it appropriate to give a thorough, thorough assessment. I am afraid that it is entirely beyond the competence of the rapporteur to assess and interpret the dispute as to whether the House is entitled to discuss this report on the basis of the submitted annual report of the Czech Television, or whether, according to the request made by the President of the Election Committee, it should refrain from discussing this report and limit itself only to discussing the activities of the Czech Television Council. I believe that the decision whether or not the House wants to address the annual report on the activities of the Czech Republic, which is presented to it, is not on the rapporteur or on the electoral committee and its chair, but on the House as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the 441 press, I also do not feel called up, and I was not even empowered by the committee to explain or defend the personal position expressed by the President of the Committee until the plenary of the House. Plus, I was under the impression that it wasn't a major performance. The magic of public justice is that, on the one hand, there will be no trade in truth and lies, and that artistically valuable works will not be replaced by cracks, and on the other hand, government ripples will not arise serving the one in power. No one should feel that he lives high above the laws and principles of decent conduct. Of course, many fellow citizens, as has been said here, wonder how public media plays its part, whether they really provide objective information when they are paid. Whether they contribute to opinion pluralism. To increase general education and cultivate democratic political culture. Yes, those who pay the licence fees of the Czech Television also assume responsibility for what it broadcasts. Certainly the situation in the Czech Republic is different than for example. In Poland, where you have undoubtedly noticed this, a new law has been adopted, which is subject to the public media directly to the government. This was probably why our electoral committee reached the following resolution at its 23rd meeting on June 2015: Election Committee of the Chamber of Deputies after hearing the opening words of the Vice-President of the Council ČT Ing. Jan Bednář, Mr Miroslav Grebeníček's report and after the debate I. recommends that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution: Parliament's Chamber of Deputies approves the annual report on the activities of the Czech Republic in 2014 according to Parliament's Press 441, II. Instructs or instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament, and finally III. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the Annual Report on the activities of the ČT in 2014 at the meeting of the Election Committee. Mr President, everything on my part. No doubt you will act and I can sneak away.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-011-211.u27	Thank you. Who else is interested in speaking in the detailed debate that I have opened? I consider the presentation of the rapporteur Grebeníček, including the conclusion, that it is presented in a detailed debate, although I have called him to the final word, he has already delivered a resolution. I don't think he has to repeat it. I ask who else wants to speak in detail in the debate. It's not like that. We have just one motion for a resolution ahead of us, and that is that we approve the 2014 report on the activities of Czech Television according to the draft electoral committee. I'll check you all out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Once the number of entries has settled, we will decide by voting number 154, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 154, from 106 in favour of 71, against 21, the proposal was adopted. I note that the 2014 report on the activities of Czech Television has been approved. I end this point 211 and I also end this morning's meeting with the fact that we continue with oral interpelations this afternoon. I would like to inform you that apologies are due from this afternoon's meeting: Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, Pavel Bělobrádek, Ministers Milan Chovanec, Marian Jurečka, Michaela Marksová, Jan Mládek, Svatopluk Němeček, Robert Pelikán, Martin Stropnický, Karla Šlechtová, Dan Ťok, Kateřina Valachová and Lubomír Zaorálek. [[Let's hear it. Chairman Hamáček from the O.R.: The Prime Minister will be.]] And now the President of the Chamber of Deputies informs me that the Prime Minister will be, so you have a chance to interpel the Prime Minister at 2:30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-14-ps2013-044-03-011-211.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, I warmly welcome you all here. The next item is oral questioning, which is addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, the Government of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government.
