ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-04-ps2013-042-04-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the fourth day of the 42nd session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. I'd like you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. Mr Okleštěk votes with card number 3. I would like to inform you that the following Members of Parliament, Members of the Government, asked you to excuse your absence: Mrs Adamová personal reasons, Mr Antonín working reasons, Mrs Dobešová foreign trip, Mr Radim Fiala family reasons, Mr Gabrhel health reasons, Mr Horáček personal reasons, Mrs Chalánková personal reasons, Vice-President Jermanová health reasons, Mr Kádner working grounds, Mr Kořenek medical reasons, Mr Kučera personal reasons, Mr Kudela from 13 hours working reasons, Mr Lank family reasons, Mrs Němcová from 12 hours without giving reason, Mr Nýle medical Zlatuška, Mr Pavera Member 12.45 to 14 hours personal reasons, Mrs Pěnčíková working Zelienková, Mrs Šánová personal reasons, Mr Šincl personal reasons, Mr Urban rušit, because he is obviously in the hall, Mr Vácha working grounds, Mrs Válková medical reasons, Mrs Volcík's Volčík, Mrs. He apologizes from the members of the government: Minister Brabec - foreign travel, Minister Mládek - family reasons, Minister Němeček without giving reason, Minister Pelikán - personal reasons, Minister Stropnickýý without giving reason, Minister Ťok - working reasons and Minister Valachová - working reasons. So many apologies. Today's meeting would start with firmly ranked points from the third reading block. It's paragraphs 163 and 164. Alternatively, we could also discuss point 166. And if we could do that, then we could continue the points from the block of first reading, the laws in first reading. Well, that's today's day. I'm gonna ask if anyone's applying to the agenda. This is not the case, so we can proceed directly to paragraph 163. That's what it is.
