ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-012-039.u1	39. Government bill amending Act No. 563/1991 Coll., on Accounting, as amended / House print 812/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-012-039.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly mention the amendment to Act No. 563/1991 Coll., on Accounting and some other laws. This proposal was drawn up in accordance with the Government's legislative work plan for 2016 and the law should take effect on 1 January 2017. The bill addresses two issues. Firstly, the transposition of the European Union Directive as regards the presentation of non-financial information. The introduction of non-financial information should relate in particular to corporate social responsibility, such as environmental protection, social and employment issues, respect for and respect for human rights, the fight against corruption and bribery. The main reason for this obligation is to increase the comparability of non-financial information within the European Union and the ever-increasing requirements for business transparency. The second issue is purely legislative technical. The objective of these technical changes is to increase the legal certainty of accounting entities which are not commercial corporations and are undergoing a transformation process. The amendment to the Accounting Act implements a regulation of the European Union in which there is no possibility of discretion. At the same time, the draft amendment does not go beyond the requirements of the European Union. In doing so, the proposed legislation chooses from the possibilities of the directives in question solutions which minimise the administrative burden on the bodies concerned, while consistently fulfilling the objective of European Union legislation. Therefore, I propose that the Chamber of Deputies should give its consent to the draft amendment at first reading, as provided for in Section 90 (2) of the Act. 2 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-012-039.u3	I also thank you, Minister, and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Karel Fiedler. At the same time, I will ask you, colleagues, to keep you quiet, because the level of noise in the hall has increased again. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-012-039.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Only in order to discuss this point by 19 o'clock will I not delay my opening speech, because basic information on the parameters and aspects of this law has been communicated by the petitioner. This is, for the most part, a transposition of the law and of the European Union's affairs. I would just like to point out to my fellow Members that, from my point of view, this amendment is another extension of the administrative burden for companies managing accounting, even if it concerns only the vast majority of large companies that keep accounting to a greater extent. Thank you for the floor. And I recommend a release from the position of correspondent of this law until second reading. I do not recommend shortening the deadline.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-012-039.u5	I'm opening the debate. The President of Stanjura shall have priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-012-039.u6	Firstly, I think that the rapporteur did not need to be limited in time. Minister Pelikán isn't here anyway, so even if we did it fast - I'm sorry. [[Disagree from the diaper. Minister Pelican sits in government benches.]] Minister, I'm sorry. I missed you. You must have come now. I'm sorry. If I'm wrong, I'll apologize. Well, I'm pulling this back. Secondly, so as not to forget, on behalf of two MPs, ODS and TOP 09, I am raising the veto for a hearing pursuant to § 90 para. 2. I don't think the accounting bill is easy, so to vote... Again, Minister, pure transposition. See how many paragraphs of transposition there aren't. Those are our own good ideas. Now, in my opinion, the contradiction that we are going to try to minimize the bureaucratic burden, and here it is being introduced - that is, for large entities - completely unnecessary bureaucratic measures. Large entities will provide non-financial information about, for example, how they respect human rights in their company. I know it's a transposition, I'm just saying that we have a lot of this nonsense today and every day. But what interested me in the explanatory report - for the first time I saw in official material, for example, the government's term that the bill was consulted with a large audit four. I think I know who's in there. I remember a few years ago, it was a big audit five until one of those five went bankrupt. It wasn't a Czech company to add. Big 4 members are mostly subsidiaries of the multinational big ones. So, for the record, next time, we either don't use it, or the Ministry of Finance tells all Members and Members who, in the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, is a member of the large audit four. To me, it seems rather strange to have this mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. I guess we could name them, but I'm not running an ad campaign. It doesn't seem quite right. And it's paradoxical, it's in the section that relates to RIA, where it's written: we didn't do RIA, we consulted it for a), b), c) and then for some letter also with an audit firm from the big four. So I understood that about one, or there would be a plural. But that's more for fun, it's nothing serious that we should be doing for a long time. But I really don't think accounting law is an easy thing to do. I am also opposed to shortening the deadline because we will still not be able to get it to second reading by the end of June, and I think that sometimes the debate is more detailed. When the members of the Budget Committee look at the invitation for the next committee week, they find that we both have a pretty busy program for two days, that there are a lot of points, and I don't know why we should add when we just cut the deadline for one bill a while ago. If we do it again, then the negotiations really won't be good. But it'll be quick, I'll admit it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-012-039.u7	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is joining the debate. Just for the record, Mr rapporteur, you mentioned a shortening of the deadline. If you want to load it, it must fall now in the general debate. [[Newsletter: I didn't suggest it.]] Okay. If no one else reports to the general debate, I will end the general debate. I refer to the final words of the appellant or rapporteur. The rapporteur shall declare his final statement. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-012-039.u8	I'd like to take a short final word. Here in the explanatory memorandum to this press, it is stated that it is based on the documents we received from the European Union in 2014. We were discussing the House press of 398, which concerned the law 563, recently, and I believe that it was an appropriate opportunity for us to resolve the matter on a single journey then. However, it is another House press that has arrived in the House. In my opinion, this matter could have been resolved on the basis of the data I have in my explanatory report, as these documents were presented and progressed, more quickly and with less burden for the Chamber of Deputies. I hope, for the next time, that there will be an effort to join together so that the Chamber of Deputies is not further burdened by unnecessary amounts of Houses of Press when they are going to join. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-31-ps2013-047-05-012-039.u9	Thank you. I wonder if the Minister wants to take the final floor. It's not like that. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see a suggestion. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote. I will read the motion for a resolution: who agrees that the proposal tabled should be ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee? Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 228. 131 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 119, against none. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the budget committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, and I ask whether anyone has a proposal on the commandment to the next committee or committees for discussion. I don't see another suggestion. Nor has there been a proposal to shorten or extend the period, and therefore I conclude the discussion of this point. Since we have the last two minutes of the day ahead of us, and the bill of bankruptcy and its solutions is so extensive that there is not enough time for it at this moment, I will no longer open it. I'm interrupting the meeting until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Thank you, and I wish you a pleasant rest of the day.
