ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u1	183. Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2017 /German press 921/ - 3rd reading I ask that Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš and rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Václav Votava, take the position at the rapporteur's table. The amendments to the draft law submitted are set out in the Houses of Press 921/4. Before I open the debate, I ask the rapporteur of the budget committee of Mr Václav Votava to present a set of amendments and make a proposal for a voting procedure. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, amendments are included in the press 921/4. I would tell you how we're going to vote, respectively -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u3	I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, for entering into your speech, but I will ask you, colleagues, for your peace! The procedure for voting on the state budget will be presented, so that you know what will be voted on. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u4	The procedure is perfectly simple. First of all, we would vote on the amendments made in the resolution of the Committee on Budgets, following individual amendments. We would then vote on the amendments tabled at second reading at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. This would deal with the amendments and we would vote on the motion for a resolution on the government bill as a whole. And then we would also vote on the accompanying resolutions that emerged from the budgetary committee's discussions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u5	Thank you. Does anyone have any comment on the proposed procedure? I do not see the reminder, in which case I would like to put it to a vote in favour of the proposed procedure for voting on the state budget. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the proposed state budget voting procedure, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It's a vote with order number 138. 174 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 145, against no one. I am of the opinion that this procedure has been approved. And I am now opening up a debate on this point. I'm registering several entries. First, I will ask Mrs Černochová to speak and Mr Ondráček, Mr Grospič, is prepared after him. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Let me ask you once again to support my amendments, so that the Chamber of Deputies accepts an amendment in which we are increasing the Ministry of Defence's spending by CZK 10 billion next year. What led me to this proposal, I told you quite in detail at the second reading of the state budget discussion. It even met in a date, the second reading, with the press conference of Prime Minister Sobotka after he invited relevant ministers to discuss visions with them in their departments. And it has been said from the Prime Minister's mouth several times that he wants our country not to be a stowaway within the North Atlantic Alliance, that he wants defense spending to be raised so that the Czech Republic is a country fulfilling the parameters of the Washington Convention. That is why I am very unpleasantly surprised that yesterday I learned from the press conference that defense spending is not a priority for this government. I don't mean to say that the priority shouldn't be the educators he actually put it against. So it's not going to raise 10 billion to the military, but it's going to raise 100 million to the educators. Okay, I have no problem paying better educators, but I think we're all aware of the situation...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u7	I will restore order to you, my colleague. I will ask my colleagues in the hall if you have important topics, go to the lobby and deal with them! Here we are discussing the state budget for 2017. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u8	You probably all know what the commitment from the Washington Convention is that the Czech Republic, like other countries under the North Atlantic Treaty, should have been paying and contributing 2% of GDP for years. The budget for 2017 in the field of defence is trivial in that it reaches only one percent. Prime Minister Sobotka, how do you want to fulfill last week's media promises and the terms of the North Atlantic Treaty, your government's programming statement when you say you want to make a budget, virtually. The percentage of GDP for the next period has brought at least 1.4 percent of GDP closer, so how do you have it in the coalition agreement? When do you want to do this when your government ends in 2017? In what period do you want to keep the promises you make to the citizens you give to journalists while not telling them the truth? I would like to ask once again, especially the members of the ANO movement, who, on the one hand, their minister runs the resort I am talking about. I think Mr. Defense Minister Stropnický can confirm that we are not political in the field of defense. It does not matter if someone is a member of the opposition or a member of the coalition. We are dealing with the things that the defence of the Czech Republic needs, which is what our country needs, and that is how it should be, and it is absolutely fine. So I would like to ask you not to look at whether the amendment is proposed by Černochová, or if Chalupa, Gabal, proposed it as last year, but to look at it by looking at what we really need. To avoid embarrassment within international obligations. If the opposition is proposing to you here and he is handing you in support of an increase in the budget in this area, it seems to me that you are not thinking any more rationally about making use of this offer. Because, as I say, next year is the last year in this term of office of the Chamber of Deputies, and I would very much like the trend of increasing defense spending to be reversed in the shortest possible time. You see, there is, of course, the Prime Minister's confession, in a way, the Minister of Defence and other ministers, that they are not able to spend money on acquisitions, that they are not able to invest. Mr. President was talking about it. But in this case, Prime Minister, you must reach into your conscience because it was your government that submitted an amendment to the Public Procurement Act, which you spoke about together with Minister Šlechtová, which will significantly change the area of acquisition processes. How everything will speed up. You chased us here so that the law needs to be adopted slowly in some speedy procedure. The law applies, its efficiency is zero. We see it on the drawdown, which I think will be a topic sometime on February, March, when we have the results of the budget specifically in the chapter of defense 2016. [[9.50 hours]] And I'm really sorry that you're saying something other than what you want to do. All ministers of this government. Indeed, I consider that we have proposed several times in the Defence Committee, across the political spectrum, an increase in expenditure in the field of defence. It had support. It always hit here. This year, it hasn't even come across the negative opinion of Minister Babiš. This year, the Prime Minister directly brought it up, which I find completely absurd that the Prime Minister of this government claims something to the media for one week, and the week after that he is unable to negotiate support within the coalition to go through a proposal that has a head and a heel. I also spoke about the need for defence funding frameworks to be declared forward in some way, following the model of Poland. We have also talked about this in some debates with the Minister that I would actually see this as a very viable solution, that a law will be passed, according to which the entire term of the Chamber of Deputies will actually take place, and the army will have a clear vision of how it will be able to invest funds, in what period, so that they will launch acquisition processes that will have secured funding in the years to come. So please try to hear me out again on my request - to support my amendment concerning the increase in the defense department's expenditure. In particular, I was talking here about 1 billion being transferred to Military Intelligence to the so-called area. Cybersecurity and 9 billion ground forces, whether for the purchase of combat technology or for the equipment of soldiers. We all want the Czech Republic to get into numbers not only in the army, but also in police officers so that we can reach the numbers that the ministers have drawn, whether it is 22,000 soldiers at first, then up to 30,000. Minister chovanec wants 45,000 police officers. I'm a little sorry that Minister Pelikán is not sitting here today, who, in my opinion, is failing completely flagrantly in the fight for his people. Prison service is an absolute cinderella in the area of armed and security forces. We all know that. Where is Minister Pelikán to comment on how the 2017 budget will reflect the increase in funds for these people? If you don't realize that, Prime Minister Sobotka, you're actually facing a huge problem here, because in the hierarchy of members of the armed and security forces in terms of finance, when I compared them, the best rated members of the Army of the Czech Republic, followed by customs officers, followed by firefighters, then police, then there's a deep slump, and then there's a prison service. But apparently, the prison service and the officers of the prison service don't matter to Minister Pelikán, because I didn't hear any lobbying for this part of the security corps after Mrs. Válková left, so I didn't hear from him once. And try to figure out the numbers, Prime Minister. See if you can figure out how many men and women are paid or paid. And try to make amends if you don't want to live to see that there's no one in the prisons to look after the convicts. Who are you sending? Will you send the cops in? Will you send the military police there? Will you send an army? After all, you send an army anywhere, even though their role is somewhere else. On behalf of the Civic Democratic Party Club, I would like to say that we will support those proposals that improve the security situation, the defence of our country. And I want to ask you once again to support my proposals. I don't think there's a chance that Secretary of Defense Stropnickýý doesn't know what the military should spend these increased funds on. The visions, the strategies, we have a whole series of them. You can take the White Book of Defense. You can see the QUAČR, where, by the way, the budget for 2017 in the QUAČR does not correspond at all in the proposal. But I already said that on the defense committee. I would ask you to support both the proposal to increase expenditure in the field of defence, and to support my amendment, which concerns the withdrawal of 30 million 195 thousand ministries of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the ground that this item is in favour of an organisation that does not join the political party. The organization's name is UNESCO. I have proposed and justified my proposal by making these funds if they are withdrawn on the part of State Budget chapter No. 306 The Ministry of Foreign Affairs would join the Ministry of Culture. Minister Herman is here. I believe that he will enthusiastically accept my proposal because these funds worth more than 30 million crowns could go to some educational, educational, educational activity, especially for the young generation, so that there are not repeated statements denying the Holocaust, denying Israel's historical ties to their holy places, so that the real awareness in society in this area works and that we as the Czech Republic also have a clear view of who we stand on. I don't know about you, colleagues, but I am clearly on the side of Israel. Thank you for your attention and please support your proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u9	Thank you, too. With a replacement card 54, Mrs Bohdalová will vote today, and with a replacement card number 15, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka will vote. I'm registering two applications with priority rights. First of all, Mr Lank and then Prime Minister Sobotka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I apologise for overtaking the Prime Minister. He'll hold it, I won't be too long. I just want to speak here quite briefly with the defence of our amendment. We all have one huge debt sitting here. And it doesn't change the fact that most of us didn't cause it. I will remind you that the government reduced its salaries to police, prison services or firefighters in 2010 in the context of austerity measures by 10 percent. For illustration purposes, for example, a member who was then in the sixth grade and had a practice of under 21 years, the salary fell by an incredible CZK 2,650, only on the basis of a change in tariff reductions. These are derived from, for example, the fees for emergency e.g. firefighters, so the decline in their salaries was even higher in real life. A number of security forces ended up in insolvency at that time because their salary, which they were counting on, was simply unable to cover their obligations that they were currently having. This measure, this reduction in salaries, was accompanied by a promise that it was a crisis and temporary measure that would last three years. We have the end of 2016, and the salaries of firefighters or police officers are still off-line. [[10.00 hours]] Dawn - The National Coalition proposes to transfer 900 miles. CZK from the government debt service to the salaries of members of the security forces. It would represent roughly an increase of about 2 percent. Given the good economic situation today, there is hardly ever a more appropriate situation for this step. Ladies and gentlemen, promises are to be fulfilled not only at Christmas. So let's just show one more time that we're still capable of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u11	Thank you, too. I will now ask for Prime Minister Sobotka's speech, and the Minister of Defence will be prepared with priority rights. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u12	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the third reading of the draft law on the state budget. Of course, I do not want to take any acting Member at all and question his good intentions in any way whatsoever, and I certainly do not want to question the good intentions of Mrs Černochová, who seeks to increase the Ministry of Defence's budget, however, I would like us not to play a game here or do something that no longer has any real value. We're discussing the state budget. The state budget is an important law put forward by the government. It is presented by the government coalition, and the government coalition is agreed on how it wants to enforce this state budget and in what form it can be approved. We are no longer at the stage of negotiating changes in the order of billions of crowns, so that at the last moment we can make changes in the budget in the order of billions of crowns and move funds on the basis of parliamentary proposals. This is simply not how the preparation of the budget takes place and does not take place at any time in the past. At a time when the political party of the ODS, represented by Mrs Černochová, was part of the government, part of the government coalition, the Member will undoubtedly remember that the budget was voted by the government coalition and that the government coalition had to be agreed on what structure it would approve or not approve the amendments that appeared in the Chamber of Deputies. I would just like us to realise what stage of the budget negotiations we are at. This is not the first reading of a general political debate. This is not even a second reading where individual amendments were justified. This is the third reading, we have a vote in a few moments, the third reading decides on amendments, and we also have the approval of the State Budget Act. Moreover, I have noticed that, mostly, opposition parties have declared that they will not vote in favour of the budget because they have critical comments on the budget. That's perfectly legitimate. It is entirely legitimate for the opposition to comment and if it wants it not to vote in favour of the budget. But on the other hand, I do not think it is logical if the opposition Members here convince us that we should adjust the budget, and on the other hand, they say, even if you adjust the budget, no matter what you do, we will not vote for the budget anyway. And the government coalition is aware that no one else here in the Chamber of Deputies is going to push the budget instead. The budget must be approved by the votes of the government coalition, which has received confidence in this Chamber of Deputies. Only to the method perhaps towards citizens, to understand the situation we are in. It is possible to convince, argue here, but I think there was time in the previous months when the state budget was being prepared. It is now December 7th and we should decide on the state budget, we should approve it today, so that there is a clear signal as to what rules and what resources the state will manage in 2017. And now allow me, because I have been repeatedly asked by the Member to answer her questions so that I can respond on the basis of this call. Indeed, it is not my ambition to prolong this discussion at third reading, but if I am called upon as Prime Minister, I feel it is my duty to answer. First things first. If the army's budget hadn't been lowered, we wouldn't have had to raise it so much right now. I noticed that the army's budget had fallen, and it had declined especially at a time when the government was being led by the Civil Democratic Party. The budget has fallen significantly, and next year we are increasing our defense spending by 4.7 billion. CZK, the defense budget will exceed 52 billion next year. CZK and for the first time will be higher than in 2010. I would like, through Mr President, to ask the Member to explain to us how it is possible that, although the right has previously ruled here, next year the budget will only be higher after years than the Ministry of Defence's budget was in 2010, by exceeding 52 billion. Crowns. It is therefore clear that something happened between 2010 and 2013 which led to a reduction in defence spending in the Czech Republic. The defense budget went down, it wasn't a positive trend at all. And if, a little while ago, the Member said that we must finally turn the trend around, I would like to inform you that we have already turned it around. This is the third budget in a row where we're increasing our defense spending. We don't have to turn the trend now, we've reversed the trend, we've turned it in the first state budget prepared by our government for 2015. Defence expenditure increased, increased in 2016, increased in 2017 and will increase in 2018. Although the honourable Member has expressed a completely legitimate wish here as an opposition Member for this government no longer to be here, unfortunately I must disappoint the Member. This government will be here at least until the proper elections to the Chamber of Deputies. Since proper elections are expected to be held in October, this government still has an obligation to prepare a draft law on the State Budget for 2018. This government must prepare a budget, it has an obligation to submit it to the Chamber of Deputies by the end of September, and I assume that after the budgetary procedure is over, it will probably be for the new Chamber of Deputies to be elected in the next elections. This government will still propose an increase in defence expenditure in 2018 and this government will propose an increase in defence expenditure in 2019 and 2020 within the budgetary perspective. We will not only approve the draft budget next year, but we will also approve the budgetary perspective in which we will say exactly what defence expenditure will be in 2019 and 2020. And if this government and the coalition have said that they want defense spending to reach 1.4 percent of GDP in 2020, they need to see it and they will have to see it in the budgetary perspective that we are going to submit. Defense spending is increasing, unlike in the past, when the Civil Democratic Party ruled here, they don't strangle. The number of soldiers increases in contrast to the past, when it decreased, when the tables were not occupied, and even the army is modernized. With regard to the question of how much the Ministry of Defence is able to spend, I assume that the Minister of Defence will be able to do so, but that will be clear at the end of this year, how much the Ministry of Defence will transfer to the reserve funds and how much it will not transfer there. This means that there will also be a clear report within the state final account, which this Chamber of Deputies will discuss, where it will be made clear how much the Ministry of Defence has spent on this year's budget and how much money it has not spent and has transferred to the reserve fund in order to exhaust it in the following period. Information will be provided and will, of course, be publicly known. I, of course, have my fingers crossed by the Ministry of Defence so that the funds can be spent as much as possible. But what I do know for sure is that if we now increase the Ministry of Defence's one-time budget for the next year in the order of CZK 10 billion, it is obvious that the funds will not be spent next year. They just don't run out of time, it's just a fake political gesture, and it would be very inefficient, because we'd increase the budget of a chapter that couldn't spend money, it doesn't have absorption capacity, and the money would just stand there accountably, and then at the end of the year, the vast majority of them would be transferred to the reserve fund. It would just be a false gesture. I am not a friend of idle gestures, I suggest we proceed differently than the lady suggests. I propose that we gradually increase the Ministry's defense spending each year in line with how effectively the Ministry of Defence is able to draw money and how the Ministry of Defence will also say how much money it will need in the next three years. And those expenditures in 2020 should be set in such a way as to meet the objective agreed by all three coalition parties, i.e. that defence expenditure will be 1.4 % of gross domestic product. That's one point I wanted to make. [[10.10 hours]] Allow me to make two more comments regarding the President's speech. The President evaluated certain budgetary risks and talked about expenditure associated with renewable resources and also talked about expenditure associated with material urgency. I would like to inform the Chamber of Deputies that the expenditure associated with material urgency, particularly as regards the payments relating to the existential minimum, has been falling for three years in a row. This is not a budgetary risk. Overall, we spend around CZK 10 billion on this area of material emergency. This is rather a smaller amount in terms of the state budget. And the trend is positive. This means that, thanks to economic growth, expenditure on material distress is falling due to higher employment. As far as the housing allowance is concerned, the housing allowance is not part of a material emergency, but it is a contribution that is mainly used by lone seniors and is mainly used by lonely singles with children. This is the largest group of people who have a housing allowance. And I just want to remind this Chamber of Deputies that the contribution to housing and housing payments has been introduced because the rent has been deregulated. At the time of deregulation of rent, a housing supplement and housing allowance were introduced, simply so that large groups of residents here could manage the deregulation of rent that led to the increase in rent. And if single pensioners, if single mothers with young children are entitled to a housing allowance, that's okay. The absolute majority of the money is drawn within standard rental apartments and within standard rental relationships. So I don't see the housing allowance as a major problem in the state budget either. And when it comes to material distress, it's about 10 billion crowns a year. Again, these are not expenses that would escalate, but they are expenses that fall year on year. On the issue of solar subsidies and renewables, I would once again like to remind this Chamber of Deputies that the government is responding here to the aid granted in recent years. They are not aids granted under our government. On the contrary, it was our government, which had achieved a correction of the situation with the European Commission, when much of these aids granted in the past, before 2011, had been identified by the European Commission. To our surprise, when we came to the government, we found that the aids were not even notified to the European Commission and that they were paid without this notification being available, so we were removing this debt. And we have here mainly the problem of 2009 and 2010, when parameters changed in terms of prices of solar panels, and then unfortunately, in 2009, 2010, neither the Energy Regulatory Authority, nor the government, nor the Ministry of Industry responded to this. If legislation had been submitted in 2009 or at least in spring 2010, which would have allowed the aid to be reduced to solar power plants, we were elsewhere today. Unfortunately, the amendment was only submitted at the end of 2010, it was not until 2011 and it was only since 2011 that the aid was significantly reduced on the basis of the amendment approved by this Chamber of Deputies. What I was accusing the then government, then the Energy Regulatory Authority, was that they did not respond to the fact that they did not make any legislative proposals in order to reduce these aids. So again, these are not expenses that this government would set. We inherited them, and all we're trying to do is make it all right, in accordance with the law, with the European Union. And I think that the main amount of aid that is paid in relation to the solar energy, so we're talking about the claims that arose in 2009, 2010, a few years before our government started and could intervene in these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u13	Thank you, too, Prime Minister. Before I give the floor to the Secretary of Defense, I'm registering a few factual remarks. Minister, I'm sorry, but I have five factual points before your performance. First, Mrs Černochová, with a factual point, then Mr Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to recommend to the Prime Minister that he write to Ježíšek about either a hearing aid or a translator, because I feel that every time someone asks him questions, he answers completely but completely to something else. That's a live-stream colloquial demagogy, please, nicely. For three years, we've been hearing about the increase in defense expenses. You know, last year, there were four billion left in the Ministry of Defense budget, three billion, two billion, last year. You call that raising the budget? Yes, it's going to increase the budget in some small way, but you're probably going to have six billion by the end of 2016. Does that seem okay to you? Prime Minister, what happened in 2010, 2011, 2012? There was an economic crisis, if you don't remember. And our government dealt with the consequences of your government led by Prime Minister Paroubek, when you were handing out 13 pensions and crayons here, and they were cut off in areas that, when the security situation was different, made it possible. It wasn't in education, it wasn't in health care. And Prime Minister, I beg you to reprimand and lecture me when I can and cannot perform. It's the third reading. I have legitimately tabled the amendments that I am defending at third reading, and I am asking Members for support, so I beg you to instruct me here when I may or may not speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u15	I thank you for keeping time. Now, then, Mr Kalousek, Mr Pavera will be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u16	Thank you for the floor. In response to the Prime Minister's words, perhaps only a logical explanation as to why, although they cannot really support the budget, they are proposing amendments. The logic is simple. We cannot support the budget for an unacceptable balance, better said, for an entirely irresponsible and high level of total expenditure. However, in the second and third reading, we say, if these sinfully high expenditures are to be realized, let them be realized for something more meaningful than you suggest. It doesn't make much sense for non-investment subsidies to grow by 41 per cent to certain business groups, while defense spending by 4 per cent. It makes little sense for thousands and thousands of new civil servants to increase civil servants' salaries by 28 percent, while infrastructure expenditure will fall compared to this year. That's a little different from what you're actually saying. Those numbers are clear, and we're trying legitimately to make the second and third reading a little more meaningful priorities than the money you're spending a few billion more than it's necessary for you to give and eat completely unnecessaryly. I mean, there's a lot of logic to that, even though I understand that you're not going to support her.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u17	Thank you. Before I give another word, I'll read the apologies. Today, from 9.00 to 13.00, Mr Milan Šarapatka apologizes, and today until 14.00 on a foreign trip, MEPs Klučka, Šrámek, Beznoska and Putnová apologizes, and today until 14.00 on a foreign trip, President Jan Hamáček apologizes. I will now ask Mr Pavera to make a point of fact, Mr Stanjura will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u18	Have a nice morning. Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, I am merely responding to the Prime Minister's speech, which is constantly referring to the former governments, that they have not succeeded, or that budgets have not been increased, etc. And that they're increasing now. I'll just give one example to the Department of Agriculture and its budget. It seems that the Ministry of Agriculture's budget is increasing by 4 billion for next year, but if you look at what percentage it is compared to 2013, if you look at the proportion of the Ministry of Agriculture's expenditure on the State Budget in 2013, it's 4.08 percent, and then in the next year it's 3.98 percent, there's a lower share of this budget on state expenditure. It is also on gross domestic product, where it is two tenths lower. And investment in agriculture is 2 billion. lower than in 2013. So politics is just a game of numbers, and it depends on who presents them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u19	Thank you, too. Now, then, Mr Stanjura. Unfortunately, he's not present. In that case, Mr Fiedler, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u20	Thank you for the floor. I'll just briefly follow up on what my colleague Černochová said. Prime Minister, through Mr President, you made the logically correct argument that defense spending needs to be planned, prepared, that they will not be able to adapt, that it would be illogical, that you have a plan for gradual increase. It would be logical if you hadn't been with the government for three years. You've ruled for three years. It's almost the end of the term. So you haven't been able to change anything in your term when you criticize it yourself? As you mentioned, housing allowances are falling in support expenditure in material distress. Well, they wouldn't go down if our unemployment was falling. It's probably very closely related to what kind of economic cycle we are in, what kind of unemployment we have. So I don't take it at all that it's any credit to this government. It is simply the credit of the economic cycle and the natural phenomenon of the decline in unemployment. I wonder if this is going to go down, even if unemployment goes up. And one last thing. As far as you're concerned about the renewable energy sources, the famous solariums. It also had logic, and I would have believed it. But I should not be a member of this Chamber of Deputies in this parliamentary term, so as not to witness here when a member of your membership club, who is a member of the government coalition, proposed a fictitious imaginary separation of solar power plants in order to preserve their high subsidies. That totally undermines what you said. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u21	Thank you, too. Another point of fact is made by Mr Kučera. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u22	Hello, thank you for your word. Mr President, Mr Prime Minister. Allow me, Prime Minister, a few comments on your performance regarding the outrageous support that is being paid for solar projects. I mean, it's your party, ČSSD, that discredited renewable resources in the public eye by setting up this outrageous support for a long period of time. You're responsible. And I would very much like you not to delegate this responsibility to others, to which you have applied here and, if possible, to address this outrageous support and try to remedy renewable resources in the eyes of the public, which are now an integral part of the right and modern energy mix. So the responsibility is entirely up to you, Prime Minister, on your side. And please don't blame it on anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u23	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Urban. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u24	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, colleagues, social democracy has done exactly what Mr Kučera has called for, i.e. it once created the conditions for renewable resources to be a part of the energy mix. Nothing more, nothing less. The myth that some law then set out how much subsidy per kilowatt hour... There is no such law, through the President, Mr Kučera, or even. others. The situation developed since 2006 so that it was gradually, unfortunately, for me for unknown reasons, probably due to the change of methodology of the Energy Regulatory Authority, a subsidy per kilowatt hour from the original some 6.50 CZK to up to some 12.50 CZK, with the cost of investment falling, i.e. the cost of individual panels, as has been said here several times today. This situation escalated around 2008, 2009 and 2010, and although the regulatory authority was able to reduce under the current law - it is not true that it could not, could! - didn't cut by one percent. And governments at that time could have responded and not responded. And now there's a consequence. That it bears the state budget is so that it is not on the shoulders of citizens and companies in the Czech Republic. Because we've put a ceiling on the megawatt hour, and the rest is the state budget. There are ways. Read the resolution of the Economic Committee, which proposes how to reduce the cost of renewable resources in the current situation as well. But it's not -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u25	Your time, Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry. You're logged in with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u26	This government and the previous governments of social democracy are not to blame for this situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u27	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Mr. Defense Minister Stropnický. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, given that I am the Minister of Defence, I think you are right to assume that I will defend this and that I will not attack it. I would like to thank you by your means, Mr President, Mrs Černochová, for the interest that I see behind the words that she has put forward here, although I can only agree with them in a partial way. And I'm only going to be able to make a few quick figures or facts. On my admission to the ministry, the budget was about 42 billion. As the Prime Minister said here, next year it will be 52.5 billion. That's a pretty significant increase. If I take the original one, it's about 25 percent. We can juggle numbers here. Anyway, the percentage of GDP will always be some average, some estimate, depending on the swings in it. But so be it. Next year it's going to be 1.08 if we want to be precise, so it's rounding up, if I'm not mistaken, if I remember it from school, going up to 1.1. But that's really a detail. More importantly, year-on-year increases are between 9 and 10 percent. That's pretty important. The majority of Members who deal with this issue know this very well. And those countries in Europe that have a year-on-year budget increase in the category of such a percentage are, believe me, slowly, they can be counted on the fingers of one hand. As far as the commitment is concerned in 2020, I think, just as the Prime Minister has already been told that this is not an unrealistic objective. We will, as has also been told, prepare the last budget with a view to 2019, 2020 and there it can be spread out so that the budget is investment-absorbed and, at the same time, to keep the promise we made. We are also going to have two scenarios in the Ministry, a scenario less ambitious and more ambitious because - and that is not an excuse - it really doesn't make sense after the length of time we are in government, but it needs to be fair again. And the projects are somehow being prepared. These projects are somehow approved. Our Czech approval or procedural mechanism is one of the most complex in Europe. Many of my colleagues decide on investments that are alone in our money in tens of millions or hundreds of millions. And with full responsibility for such investments. I have to go to the government with a few million dollars. We have other control mechanisms. We have a state quality check. We have a competitive struggle in the arms industry market, which is unconciliable and which fights with every means possible. [[10.30 hours]] So it's kind of cheap to say that the Ministry can't spend in a good way. Maybe if someone pushed me into the corner with this argument, I'll always use the counterargument that I'd rather be bet on slower spending of the budget than problematic spending of the budget. And we've invested hundreds of millions, billions in the past two or three years. We didn't have service contracts. We had them set up so undervalued, because there was just no money and there was a need to pour the money. We've spent hundreds of millions on the most brilliant things, like jumpsuits, etc. So we don't have six billion left if something like that has been said here. That's a total illusion number. I think we've changed a lot of things, that we're just trying to get the resort back on its feet somehow. Some of the results are indisputable, and I think we don't have to whip each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u29	Thank you, too. We will therefore now continue with proper applications for the general debate. I will ask Mr Ondráček and Mr Grospič will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, again the rest of the government, colleagues, last week or the week before - last week when we went to the second reading of this state budget, I signed up for my amendment, which is like the House Press 5222, and I briefly justified it. This is, to remind you, a 90-mile shift. CZK from Chapter 355 of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes to Chapter 314 of the Ministry of the Interior. I am therefore saying that we are moving from defence to the Ministry of the Interior, which was first outlined by Mrs Černochová. I briefly justified my amendment, and I had no idea what kind of storm it would be, what that cheeky Ondráček again dares to take the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes. I said here in my reasoning that the work of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes has long shown the results of its activities, both in quantity and quality, which do not correspond to the expenditure associated with them, and I said that this constitution can be compared with the Constitutional Court. If you look at these two chapters that I have just mentioned, that is - the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes has a budget of 290 million for next year. The crown, only 185 miles of it. on salaries. The Constitutional Court has a total budget of 238 million, which means some 50 lower, and the salaries of constitutional judges are 122 million. Kroner, that's about 60 miles. less. I will leave you all to consider how the Constitutional Court works and how the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes works. In particular, if no one believes that this is the case, you can find the audit conclusion from last year's control action number 39, which is called Property and funds of the state with which the organizational units of the state are responsible, the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes and the Archive of Security Forces. It is a report from last year and the Supreme Audit Office focused on 2012-2014. If you look in the chapter or section II - Summary of the facts found during the inspection, please, my friends, listen to this, whether you also hear how the archive works. The Institute and the Archive did not fully fulfil one of the fundamental activities imposed by the law. The Institute and the Archives did not set long-term objectives and strategies on the obligations laid down by law. Of course, what would they do with strategies, because then they could be controlled. Three. The Institute and the archives did not have sufficient effective internal control mechanisms in place. Where there's no control, there's basically nothing to find out. And the constitution did not proceed in the handling of movable property in accordance with the law. What's more to add? I think there might be some kind of criminal complaint. I could ask the Prime Minister how the government discussed it, and the government was discussing it on Monday, I think, that means two days ago, but she didn't give any opinion. It simply doesn't matter how such an institution works to the government of the Czech Republic. We're pouring 290 miles into it. The CZK annually and the results of their work are basically not internally controlled; the mechanisms of the activity are not set. There is a group of people where we don't even know what the results of this institution are in the long run. I wanted to move these funds, the 90 million, and I don't think it's any big ambition so it's something unrealistic so the Prime Minister can blame me for doing some populism here. Only 90 miles. Crowns. Dear colleagues, these are not funds in the chapter of the Ministry of the Interior that would affect anything in any way. That's 90 miles. I was going to move them to Chapter 314 of the Ministry of Interior and put them on salaries not only for members of the security forces, that is, police officers and firefighters, but also for civil servants as well as for employees who are employed under the Service Act. And I told you the mechanism here last time. I have justified why I am making such a proposal, and I have said, and Mrs Černochová mentioned it, and Mr Lank mentioned that the problem with the police, underestimating the difficult work of security forces, police officers and firefighters in this case in the MV chapter is quite significant. Our government also knows that, because the Prime Minister met with representatives of all trade unions working with members of the security forces last week, and the Prime Minister had a nice discussion last week, and he actually bragged about it, both for members and others. for former members, we, as Members, have abolished the taxation of their service. Prime Minister, here I would say you are bragging about quite a strange feather because the proposal did not come from the government, but it came from a group of Members, but thank you for your support and thank you for the support of all the Members across the political spectrum who voted in favour of this law. It's up to Mr. President now, and I believe it's from 1. 1st next year, this matter will be definitively terminated. You mentioned in that meeting, Prime Minister, that you were working in legislation and that you would cancel 150 hours. Yes, I know your programming statement, I know you have it as a coalition. But Prime Minister - the Minister of the Interior is not here - you don't have much time until the end of your term. I spoke to the Prime Minister and the Home Office. The law is still not in the Chamber of Deputies and runs somewhere in your legislative commentary proceedings. If you deliver it here in January and you have there, except for the cancellation of the 150 hours and other things that you agreed with the largest trade union organizations, that means with the Independent Trade Union Association of the Police of the Czech Republic and the Union of the Security Corps, for which I commend you that you are able to communicate and agree, but at that time you have very little. What you're not going to do by the end of next semester, you're basically not going to make it to the end. [[10.40 hours]] And that, at the same time, you are already talking about it as if it were a certainty that you, in the proposal that has not yet seen the light of day here in the Chamber of Deputies, are introducing a new thing, such as a recruitment allowance of 30 to 150,000 for recruiting a police officer - which, of course, will probably only apply to Prague and the Central Bohemia Region - you cannot yet say that the Chamber of Deputies will approve such a thing. Meanwhile - and the overpressure, and Mrs Černochová spoke of it here yesterday just before the end of the meeting, the overpressure is great about the members of the security forces and the drag is great there, so Council hl. m. Prague approved yesterday that the new officer of the Municipal Police in Prague, whose salary, not, whose salary is between 6 and 7 thousand. higher than the incoming salary of a member of the Police of the Czech Republic, so Prague overtakes you and offers the incoming officer 100 thousand. Crowns. A hundred thousand crowns, if anyone commits to serving as an officer of the city police. But in addition, a city police officer has already received a housing allowance, a transport allowance, meal vouchers, a risk premium, and more and more benefits that you are unable to give to police officers of the Czech Republic or other members of the security forces last year. You're failing for the long term - and I don't want to deal with this right now because I refused to interpel you and will be included in the next meeting and we will discuss this again right after New Year's. So the problem is long-term. I would like to appeal here in particular to the ANO colleagues who, when they came here, said that politics would be done differently, that they are not bound as those who are members of traditional political parties. But fellow Members, you're starting to be almost the same because you don't really care that we're spending hundreds of millions on something that doesn't work, we don't take into account the work of the Supreme Audit Office, which reminds us that something doesn't work there, that there aren't control mechanisms set up, that there's no strategy, and that basically nobody knows what the researchers are doing there, but with just one wave, we're going to pay 290 miles. Crowns. But the security in our streets, colleagues and colleagues, concerns all of us. And I believe that the security forces will address you with questions about what you, as legislators, will do for their unhappy situation in the rest of your term. The Prime Minister promised them a lot during last week's negotiations, but he also honestly said that he could not make any commitment because he is the Prime Minister only until the end of this parliamentary term. What happens next, no one really knows. Yes, thank you. The Prime Minister tells me from behind, yes, the voters will decide. But if there's a new government coming, he's gonna get his act together again. You will not grieve with a promise, and the security situation and the number of security forces will continue to decrease, there will be a drag on those members, and that is not a good thing. It is not good for security in our country, it is not good for the Czech Republic as such. So I am going to ask you to support my amendment, which is in the system that we have talked about here, and it is only about moving 90 miles. CZK from the chapter of the Institute to the chapter of the Ministry of the Interior, salaries not only of members, but also of civil servants and people working in the service. Thank you and have a good day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and please to the microphone with Mr. Foldyna de facto. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u32	Thank you, Madam President. I did not want to report to this debate at all, but I do need to respond to what I have heard here from the true political spectrum. I'd make it simple. We are being accused here - the current government, the current successful government, the current successful government coalition, whether it be the YES movement, whether it be the party of popular or social democracy - we are being blamed here for eating through the state budget. Excuse the expressive word. We're being blamed here for eating through the state budget. I would just like to say that those years from 2006 to 2013 did not eat up the budget. It wasn't eaten by the ten million people who made up GDP, but the number of dollar millionaires grew by 17,000. So we're handing out money with ten million people here, whereas you were handing out money to the 17,000 that grew here. We put 6 billion on community service. CZK, you cut down, you made so-called cuts, those were the popular words of the then right-wing government, they were cut off at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, officials left, community service fell to 2 billion, but the number of social benefits paid increased to 11 billion. Is that reasonable? What were we supposed to do? So we now made up almost 3% of GDP, or 3% of GDP, and we ate it with ten million inhabitants of this country. You ate them with your friends! Sorry, that's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u33	Thank you. Mr. Grospič's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u34	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, Dear Government, at the second reading of the state budget, I approached you with a request and a reading of the amendment, which was distributed to you under number 5336 and concerned the proposal to increase the title for the State Transport Fund of 100 million to Chapter 327 of the Ministry of Transport of the Czech Republic. CZK for the preparation and implementation of the project preparation and project of the so-called alljan link. I know that in my case it is about an evergreen and a personal relationship to the railway, but from the section of the town of Milovice to the village of Všejany as the first stage of this connection under consideration today there are many studies and the Railway Infrastructure Administration is still unable to move on, what project and what project study will actually give priority to the implementation of this relatively acute situation, which unfortunately is not included as a national priority for implementation. I would like to use you here today to ask for the support of my proposal, which will be a symbolic gesture of the fact that the Chamber of Deputies is also at the heart of the development of the transport infrastructure of railway transport in corridors which are not entirely backbone for the Czech Republic, such as from Prague to Ostrava. In this context, I would like to ask you to support my amendment and say that I have received a positive statement from the mayors of the following municipalities and cities from then on to this point in time: the cities of Lysá nad Labem, Mr . Karel Otava, from the mayor of the village Lipník Mrs. . Ingrid Podroužková, from the mayor of Čachovice Mrs. Jitka Sluková and from the mayor of Jizbic Mrs. Eva Pacltová. It speaks of the fact that this matter is not indifferent to the municipalities in the region, that it will significantly contribute to the acceleration and acceleration of passenger transport, but also freight, between Prague and Mlada Boleslav, in Liberec, and that it will also contribute to the development of the industrial group VW Škoda in Mlada Boleslav, which is certainly also a significant view and contribution to the development of the economy in the Czech Republic. Thank you for supporting my proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u35	Thank you. I will ask Mr Zahradník for a microphone and Mr Dolejš will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u36	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted for the third reading of the draft state budget to ask you to support the amendment that I tabled, which is in the voting system under number B6. I would like to remind you that in this chapter, I propose that the Ministry of Environment reduce subsidy for non-state non-profit environmental organisations from 20 million to 10 million crowns. I accompanied this proposal with a simple calculation, which is that we can estimate from the Ministry's website that potential applicants for this contribution are about fifty. The conditions of this programme allow an average of CZK 100,000 for each project, and according to the terms of the programme, each organisation could apply on average for two projects, which is a very optimistic estimate. This is the sum of CZK 10 million, which I think should be richly enough to implement the support programme. Therefore, I propose to move the remaining 10 million crowns to adaptation measures to mitigate the effects of climate change on aquatic ecosystems in the same chapter. You might say that this is perhaps one of the smallest amendments, a proposal that manipulates perhaps the smallest amount. Indeed, the $10 million in a trillion budget is a drop in the sea. But the proposal also has some symbolic meaning. We may not be fully aware of every day, but the fact is that lives as citizens increasingly indirectly affect us as different non-state non-profit organizations, whether they are in the area of social sphere, human rights, eventually the possible migration situation, and of course also in the area of environmental protection. For example, last Friday we approved an amendment to the Šumava Act under significant pressure from environmental organisations, which each of you probably recorded on your website. Many of you are under pressure to reconstruct the state as part of Bold Bold, a former Environmental Legal Service, which also drew substantial money from the chapter of the Ministry of Environment. So a small change, but with a relatively significant symbolism in my opinion. It's not that bad that the government doesn't take the opportunity to draw money from the state. Last Thursday, the Committee of the State Fund on the Environment also approved CZK 36 million for environmental education, education and education, which was also intended to cover or cover the 20 million from our budget, for the very education, education and education of 20 million, for the creation of methodologies, for the education of teachers and teachers of 10 million, for the interpretation of the natural heritage of 6 million. For example, there is a project like this - a really healthy school, it concerns 160 schools, and the program allows children to understand the relationship between food that they consume and the world in which they live. Children are systematically familiarized with the issue of the negative effects of industrial agriculture on the environment, the development of organic farming in production areas and the impact of the current food system on climate change. I don't know if anyone's gonna tell these kids that without that industrial agriculture, a lot of billions of people on Earth would starve to death. There are ten educational events for schools, 14 lecturers. One evaluation, eleven seminars, and one new material for environmental education, education and education is to be carried out. All for 2 million crowns. So you can see that not only from the state budget, but also from the fund budgets, such nonsense can be financed. So please consider supporting my proposal, among other things, for its particular symbolic significance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Dolejš's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u38	Beautiful morning, colleagues and colleagues, kind government. It was already mentioned here in the debate to what extent it makes sense to talk about the final form and the decisive structure of this budget when we approved the main figures at first reading and the more substantial structural corrections, as I heard from the Prime Minister's mouth, are announced that they will not be supported because it is side-by-side shooting when I simplify it. Therefore, why does the opposition actually load these proposals at all, or if they were to pass through, why does it give advance notice that it will not support such a budget. It has some logic in what has already been said here at first reading, but also in the view of the nature of the amendments. Even if some of them went through, as if it could happen, let's keep our fingers crossed, colleagues here have already defended what they have read, so it doesn't change the overall nature of the budget. And whether this substantial change should move towards the right-wing opposition or to the left-wing opposition, it will certainly not be such a change that these camps can satisfy it not only politically, but also from the perspective of their visions of economics. That is why it makes sense here to say in the third reading why, in the end, despite all the amendments, the position of the various factions is as it is. And that the position of the KSČM faction is ultimately negative for the final budget vote, I can say at this point, because we simply believe that this budget is drawn up in good times, so it gives the government a chance to boast relatively good numbers, but at the same time we believe that these good times have not been used in the way it could have been. That the budget is largely inertial, which does not solve some of the historical chronic problems that our society has more thoroughly, and for that simple reason it is unsatisfying despite all the good numbers that we sometimes hear - as our economy grows, wages rise, unemployment falls, etc. etc. One significant figure that sounds in government budget alone is this year's performance number. And the truth is that if the forecast of the budget surplus is fulfilled, and it seems that the 50 billion crowns really are not enough to disappear in the deficit - so the President will have the problem of having to think about what he means as a bonmot and what he really means - it is a fact that has not actually happened since 1993. But the question is, is it a business card such a revolutionary good budget policy? Not that I take it seriously that the Minister of Finance will be proposed for the Nobelův Prize for Economics. We have two Nobelův Prize winners in the Czech Republic, if I remember correctly. One was in chemistry, Professor Heyrovský, and the other was a poet Seifert. So I wouldn't dare put Mr. Vice Prime Minister in this company, so he'll have to wait a while. But in any case, the government doesn't have that much guilt or credit on those numbers, and to a large extent it's an accounting operation, because if we get the money and we don't spend it, we're gonna have to transfer it to the next year. [[11.00 hours]] And by the way, in the way that money will be used in the next year, they are a little bit problematic about the rejection of budget proposals, because if some of the amendments in the budget are being compensated for, for example, to the chapter of state debt, if we are already aware that if we are left with, I don't know, twenty, thirty billion, they will be sent to state debt, as it is possible that we cannot compensate for certain needs, which I dare say are reasonable and justified, that we cannot compensate for it with this chapter. So it's probably pretty relative with the successes. It is such a schematic Keynesianism, which has also been heard here from the mouth of the head of state, we cannot fulfill without knowledge, I would say, a broader context. Because, yes, of course, when things are going well, we're supposed to pay off our debts, and we're supposed to pay off our debts when we're saving each other and pulling the braid out of the swamp. The problem is that we are not living in a perfect time, we are dragging a whole series of structural problems with us. We see in the forecasts that economic growth tends to slow down, that the convergence of the Czech Republic to the developed world is not much. And in this situation, it's definitely not imperative to cut what we can, because in some way, we should kick that breathing coughing engine. And the question is how, and therefore in terms of the pro-growth effect, but at the same time, the question is that we do this sensitively so that someone is not sacrificed for our budget maneuver. These are, in particular, the broad social groups. I mean, of course, social transfers, because cutting here, reducing the welfare state, driving thousands of public sector employees into the private sector, which is not ready to absorb them, that would certainly not be a happy maneuver in this situation. So these are all the reasons why I believe that the overall nature, the inertial nature of the state budget, will not even correct our vote today, and that is why our position is negative. I want to mention one major wasted chance. We're talking about making sure that the money doesn't roll around, that we don't always have a rational spending structure, that it would still want to do the smart cuts in the expenditure structure and steer the expenditure far better, but we shouldn't be passive even on the revenue side. And it is not so true that the amount of income we collect is only here because we have introduced control reports and that in the future we can look forward to a bunch of money thanks to EET. I am, on the one hand, a skeptic when it comes to planned revenues from the EET, but if we clear the revenue originally planned and realisticly expected for 2016 and we relate to the plan only to the really expected ones, then the increase is shrinking. And when you do the math, you figure that next year's revenue growth would be only 2 percent, which, with an economic growth of 2,5 percent, would be no succes. So let's think about the revenue side of the state budget. For years, there has been a fallow topic of tax progression. The tax progression that we are repeatedly raising here, even the tax progression that goes not only to individuals, but to corporations. And if we can already be so active in the search for unpaid taxes at the CFI and the small, small ones, then why aren't we just as active when it comes to large corporations? Fair enough, of course! It's not just about taxing the Minister Agrofert. All fair and square. That means big companies could and should pay bigger taxes. Let them not reassure us by charging clients or by fleeing the Czech Republic, which is no longer such a tax haven for these investors. I don't think so. Banks, IT companies definitely won't leave us. Who cuts a chicken that lays golden eggs? These companies export relatively large billions to their mothers, I wouldn't be so scared. I can't remember here that while we're already, I don't know, the fourth or what term we're talking about this, there's one party in the government, it's got to be admitted, which sometimes flashes through the head, but when it comes to breaking bread, it's not offensive. There's an election coming up, so I'd like to take - for example. I read it the other day, I think, from the Home Secretary, even though he has an interior department, so, of course, he's thinking about taxes, so he implied that the corporate tax progression might be. I'm glad he was inspired by our suggestions. I'd just like it not to end with those electoral promises, and if the election goes well, it will also manifest itself in the practice of this government party. As regards the amendments, I think that, in particular, those amendments aimed at increasing salaries in the social sphere, improving the material base of regional education, social services, etc. are worthy of attention. It has fallen here that some are being garnished not only with the VPS, i.e. the general treasury or with the state debt, but that they are being hunted in the category of money storage for payment in material distress, possibly. in unemployment benefits. And again, as if I were - I don't know if I'm reading between the lines, or if it's already been explicitly said, I haven't studied the screen when the President spoke here, but I feel he's implied that it's like parasitic payments today. I don't think so. I must say that if they are there, if there is cotton wool in this item, it is not for reasons of some unsolved parasitism, but that payout has really fallen and can grow again, and that therefore it is probably possible for this budget - and there is probably enough cotton wool in other items - to reach, even if it has a social character. But we really don't have to worry about it, because the State has a certain obligation to pay these benefits anyway, so if God forbid the need to pay these benefits would be greater, then the State has to work in this respect. Which makes us aware of which amendments we are prepared to support. On the contrary, I must say that what the right-wing opposition wants is to pull out 30 billion. and park them in reserve essentially because she did not pass her proposal at first reading, when she wanted to shorten it straight, so we do not think that we are at this stage and that we still have resources to solve problems and not simply reduce public finances and reduce the state to respond to the already somewhat cooler boom of the economy. When it comes to money for the defense department, it's not just that this year the money hasn't been spent. It's about what we want to do with this resort. And I fear that this is not quite clear, especially when I frame it into words that we have now had the opportunity to hear recently from the United States of America, when America's newly elected President Trump announced that Europe will have to improve, that Američan will no longer enjoy paying the NATO system, although NATO is a collective system, but is primarily serving their chief donor and financier, that is, the United States, and that Europe should therefore multiply its share. They talk about Prague's commitments, they are called. 2% of GDP. She's more of a declaration than a commitment. But in any case, doubling the army's budget is an amount that we should damn well know what it's up to and where we'll take it. And don't be angry with this proposal, with all due respect to Mrs Černochová, we do not see this justified and cannot support such a thing. Let us not forget that the government's recommendations to the House, hopefully, will not consider the government as essentially uninteresting and non-binding, and that it will deal seriously and seriously with those recommendations in that last election year. I think there's a lot of attention back there, things like that, for example. The government's guarantee for the situation of claims on regional councils, because there is a constant and non-directed move, whether there is greater responsibility for the region or the state, should be addressed in such a way that in real time, when the money is needed, the state should work here as a clear guarantor. In the same way, undrawn money for transport infrastructure in the regional transport structure could help, because in those regions they are also waiting for it. [[11.10 hours]] And let us not forget that, as part of the budget discussion, the budget and budget projections and expenditure ceilings are in parallel. And we kind of got the hang of it, or I don't know if they agreed in the government, so I'd say that it can't be taken seriously yet, but I've just heard that it's planned that in the field of school workers, the generosity should be escalated until they reach this really malnourished resort where people with higher education work, but they're not paid enough that it should rise year after year, but that makes us logically go against the proposed spending limits. So these are all things that I would like the government to take very seriously. That the recommendation is not just a scream to nothing, and that, after voting for the whole resolution today, we would be asking for these recommendations - if they pass, I would intercede for them - that we should take a stand for them and actively ask the government for these recommendations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u39	Thank you. I beg you, Mr Janulík, in fact. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u40	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I'm such an observation from us, maybe those who are trying to listen to the whole thing. All of my previous speakers - not that I want to compare myself, as Cimrman said with radioactive carbon - but you're all starting with the fact that actually what happened last year, here are the surpluses and the improved choices that happened somehow spontaneously, by the way. That it wasn't the government's fault at all. That it just happened. So this logic is pointless to express itself in any way, or to drill into what the government actually wants to do, because it's going to happen just as much as it does outside of her will. Because that's your logic thing. You say what happened, it happened all by itself. You don't have any credit, you don't have any influence. Then why do you all care what the government wants if it happens again anyway and it happens on its own? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u41	Thank you. Please get to the microphone, Mrs... [[Member Jiří Dolejš is reporting for the floor.]] Yes, I see Mr Dolejš's point of view. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u42	A colleague formulates it widely, not directly to me. However, I think, for his sake too, through Madam President, I will repeat what I said when it comes to the good figures for this year. It's a thing that doesn't have to happen again because it's a funeral of accounting character. The money came, the additional ones from the end of the budget period, from Brussels, and we did not spend them because we remained in the tens of billions of investments in terms of the unpreparedness of the projects. So it's not something that happens every year. Just as we did not achieve a decline in the debt trend when we joined the Treasury system. It was a one-time thing, but since then, our debt has grown again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u43	Thank you, and now, please, to Mrs Hnyková's microphone, Mr Vilímec will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you good morning. Allow me, too, to defend my amendments in my third reading to the state budget. At first and second reading, I have introduced you to the very serious issue of employees in social services and asked you to approve the amendments that I have put into the system under number 5241, and this is the procedure under the letters B20 and B21. In both amendments, I demand an increase of 600 million. CZK for salaries for social services workers to their 6% increase to the current 4%, which they are to receive from 1 November in order to achieve a total increase of 10 %. Ladies and gentlemen, I have promised my colleagues and colleagues in social services that I will defend their work at all levels and that I will convince you of their need, quality, development, but also the increase in salaries so that they can live a decent life for working people. The situation behind these walls is very trivial and a number of facilities across the Republic appeal that we do something about employees' salaries, otherwise there will be a collapse and no one will have to provide care for the old, sick, elderly and disabled. I am very pleased that in the second reading, many of you have expressed a positive view of the increase in workers, and I appreciate it very much and thank you for that. You know, at one time, President Klaus was visiting us in the home of seniors in Great Hamrech, and I warned him about the very bad situation of social services workers at the time. Then he said to me, "Go to the streets and get your rights." Dear colleagues and colleagues, I can't do that. We can't leave people who need our help without our care. The employees deal with it in their own way, and they go where they get paid more, and that's not our goal. Seniors and disabled people will still be in our society and they need quality care because it affects each of us, our parents, and it will affect our children in the future. I don't want to blame anyone in the government for who's responsible or not. We now and here have the opportunity to change this, and I would like to ask you, colleagues and colleagues, perhaps even ask you to approve these amendments. I could recalculate the salaries of employees in social services, how deeply they are below the average wage, but you have heard that from my mouth. Nevertheless, I will mention the amount of CZK 8 515. Again, CZK 8 515 is the difference between salary and average wage in our country in social services. I want you to realize the gap between these salaries. At the same time, we require very professional physical and mentally demanding work for employees. You have heard from me at second reading what must be done, and therefore I have no choice but to ask for support for amendments in favour of workers in social services. I want to say in conclusion, there must always be an impulse from one of us. Nothing's gonna happen on its own. When we come up with a change, in our case, a amendment that can change people's lives in different areas. I come up with an amendment to improve the salary assessment of workers in social services, and it is up to each of us how we stand up to it and what future we will prepare in this case in social services and how we will provide quality services through employees. Quality must be appreciated and paid, otherwise it cannot and will not be possible in this area. Thank you very much for your vote, which will affect the future of social services, and thank you for your attention at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. and please, to Mr. Vilímec's microphone. Mr. Seďa will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u46	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to support and comment on, on the one hand, the proposal that I made at second reading and is registered under letter B7, where it is loaded and cleared out in three variants. But I would like to return a few more points to what Prime Minister Sobotka said here. He stated that the opposition, on the one hand, does not want to support the budget, on the other hand, makes proposals for amending the budget. I think, first and foremost, the context of the first part of the President's speech has shown that, in times of economic growth, when the economic cycle is in economic growth, a deficit budget should not be approved. I think it was quite clear here, and the President stressed it as one of his great experiences and as a sort of constant and axiom. What's the situation today? We know that we are in economic growth, and we simply support the budget with a 60-billion-dollar deficit cannot, in my view, be responsible and rationally thinking policies at present. I do not want to debate here on what has actually caused, or whether the government is responsible for the fact that this year's budget surplus is 55 billion by 30 November. I do not want to discuss or analyse whether this year's surplus is primarily due to the fact that money has come in for already invested projects from the European Union. It always comes with a certain delay. I do not want to analyse here whether this is due to the undervalued revenue that has been enforced in this year's budget, or whether it is due to the government's inability to actually rationally spend the framework, to meet the expenditure in each chapter. In any event, for next year, the economic forecasts do not indicate a decline, so the planned deficit of 60 billion. He's totally unacceptable to me. Moreover, I think that the possibility of good years of the economy for important investments, to increase our competitiveness, or, perhaps primarily, to reduce the overall government debt, has not really been used. At least it's not reflected in the budget figures. Nor would I debatherate, and I would also like to make a comment on the Prime Minister's speech, nor would I debaucherate the abuse of benefits in the field of material distress. Perhaps Prime Minister Sobotka does not have accurate information, but part of the expenses in the field of material distress, the ten billion he was talking about here, is just the housing supplement, which is the levy, the social benefit in the field of material distress. And the housing supplement, as we know, is being abused in the form of a certain business with poverty. koneckonců all, we will see if the House can tighten the terms for the payment of this supplement. Even if you look at the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, it's not clear how big the housing supplement is in those ten billions. The secretary talks about three billion, her deputy even talked about a larger amount on the committee. So in this respect, the President's remark has its ratio and we should not overlook it. Now I want to focus on the proposal that I have read, after all, the third reading of the budget is intended to do so. I want to persuade you, my fellow Members, to support this proposal, even though I have submitted the proposal as an opposition politician, and I certainly do not intend to support the overall draft state budget. I filed my amendment under letter B7 about two years ago. I submit it in response to many of the plights and complaints of mayors to support the state in the area of necessary reconstruction of schools. Although the Ministry of Finance has set up a programme to support the construction of primary schools, which is linked to an increase in the capacity of education in areas with so-called residential suburbanization. That, in itself, is certainly not the subject of criticism. The Minister spoke of this several times, it was, even if I recall correctly, the initiative of Mrs Kovářová at her time. The Ministry of Finance allocated about 636 miles to this subroutine. Crowns. On the contrary, the subject of criticism is the fact that other reconstructions of primary schools, which are not in the vicinity of large cities, which are in the vicinity of Prague, Pilsen, Brno etc., are reserved in the grant title only 38 mil. Crowns. Which you will recognise is an entirely inadequate amount. I know that the Ministry of Education also has a similar programme, but the programme favours the development of teaching capacities in primary schools. There is a proposal from Mr Dolejš to link the programmes. The question is whether it is rational or not, we will see this on the basis of the vote. But one programme does not solve a number of cases, a number of schools that do not increase their capacity, because they are not in the vicinity of large cities whose investment needs are not connected to the development of so-called. key competences, but they simply need to reconstruct the buildings of their schools, which are outdated, are in poor, sometimes even in a proven state of emergency. They just don't think about them much. Therefore, they will not fit into the national programmes mentioned by me or into any strategic frameworks for the creation of individual local action plans for the possible drawing of European money. While in the past, and I must say this, the State has supported the reconstruction of primary or kindergarten schools in many cases, it has also done so in the form of distribution of so-called. The bear, however, is now supported by reconstruction only in some locations or in conjunction with an increase in capacity in education. Ladies and gentlemen, note that even medium-sized cities, let alone smaller municipalities, do not receive enough money from the budgetary determination of taxes to be able to handle such large reconstruction on their own alone without any assistance from the state. They don't have that big budgets for it. You know, pavements are, let's say, a matter of individual communities. That's what I always said. Depending on how the village operates, it also has sidewalks. But the educational conditions in the 21st century cannot depend solely on whether or not the municipality has sufficient budget revenues to finance the multimillion-dollar, sometimes multi-million-dollar reconstructions of buildings. You can't turn your back here and say it's your business. Maybe he can do that on the sidewalks. For this reason, I proposed strengthening the subsidy programme to support the development and restoration of the material technical base of regional education by 200 million. CZK just for the purpose of eliminating emergency situations of primary or nursery schools buildings. The proposal is balanced in an alternative way. One option is to reduce the government debt by 200 million. Crowns. Another option is to reduce the government debt by 100 million. CZK and at the same time decrease the support of the Czech Export Bank by another 100 million. Crowns. In the third variant, the reduction of the support of the Czech Export Bank by 200 million. Crowns. The third option was supplemented by me after the Minister of Finance strictly indicated that he would be vehemently resisting the reduction in the chapter of the government debt service. That is why I have responded to this, and I am allowing the Minister to really support this rational proposal in the third option. [[11.30 hours]] I merely note that in the chapter of the General Treasury, the total support of the Czech Export Bank of CZK 1,330,000 and an additional one billion CZK increase in registered capital are expected. I do not want to assess the effectiveness of such high support. I don't know, I don't think the Minister of Finance is convinced of her, either, but I don't want to discuss that. Dear colleagues, I believe that you will support a proposal that can help many primary schools significantly and can help mostly new pupils to ensure really dignified conditions for their education. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Seďa's microphone, please. Mr. Vít Kaňkovský will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u48	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear members of the government, Minister, the Committee on Budgets has approved my amendment, which increased the expenditure of Chapter 336 of the Ministry of Justice for programme funding, namely the reconstruction of the former prison in Hungary Hradiště, by CZK 15 million. At the same time, I proposed to reduce the expenditure of Chapter 396 of the State Debt, the operator of the state debt, by a sum of CZK 15 million. For your information, it's an amendment under A14. It is an unpleasant surprise to me that the Finance Minister, who promised to reconstruct this property, did not recommend this proposal with the reference that it would address everything on the basis of the Memorandum of the Office for State Representation in Property Affairs. Among other things, the Ministry of Finance is pushing the District Court in Uherské Hradiště to sign the memorandum and confirm the former prison for unnecessary property. It is clear that the meaningful use of this property is precisely for the district court, the prosecutor's office, the mediation and probation service, or even for the financial office and also for the smaller museum of totalitarianism, because in this building our fellow citizens suffered during the Protectorate and in the 1950s. I would like to remind you that the former prison is declared a cultural monument. According to my information, the Office of State representation in property matters is only to draw up a study of usability, which, in my opinion, will delay this reconstruction again. Once again, I must remind you that I already tabled the same amendment in 2015 and was not adopted. Personally, I don't believe in the beginning of the reconstruction after the age-old peripetia, and I rather believe in finding reasons not to do it. And if the district court gives up this property, which he declares unnecessary, it's probably painted. For this reason, my fellow Members, I am asking you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Kaňkovský's microphone, please. Mrs Chalánková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u50	Good morning, Madam President, Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Within the framework of the proposed amendments to the state budget today, I would like to ask you to support my amendment, which proposes a transfer under Chapter 313 of the MPSV, in support of the Development and Restoration of the Material-Technical Base in Social Services of CZK 322 million. You will find it under the procedure in two identical versions, both under B25 as I read it at second reading, and in the vote you will find it under A9 from the Committee on Budgets, where my esteemed colleague, Chairman of the Social Policy Committee Jaroslav Zavadil, applied to my amendment. This happened after the Social Policy Committee adopted this amendment, unfortunately the final resolution from this meeting was not adopted. I presented a detailed explanation of this amendment here at second reading. I just remind you that in this subsidy programme, MPSV records applications for more than CZK 2 billion and this amount continues to increase. Despite all the financial support of the regions and other entities, continuous support for investment in social services is essential, while the originally proposed amount of CZK 127 million is insufficient from this point of view. I would therefore like to politely ask you to support this amendment. As we have approved the voting procedure, the amendment under paragraph A9 of the resolution of the Committee on Budgets will first be voted. Thank you for your attention and for your support for this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'd like to see Mrs. Chalánková's mike. Mrs Zelienková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u52	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I will not speak to any specific amendment, but I am interested in the Prime Minister's information that a chapter on investments in the area or in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will be increased, which is certainly commendable, on the other hand, I would like to point out that such investments should always be spent very effectively. One specific investment, which has been planned and smooth for a long time here in this resort and is being prepared in some way in our region in the Olomouc Region, concerns the planned construction of the building of the employment office in the town of Jeseník. That's why I'm talking about it because it's been many years since this plan appeared here, and there are two possibilities of solving this whole building or this office of employment in Jeseník, because there is a large building in Jeseník that the state has already acquired from the Rudné důl Jeseník. The District Office in Jeseník was located here in this large building. After the abolition of this District Office in Jeseník, the Office for State Representation in Property Affairs has dealt several times with the town of Jeseník. There were even twice the transfer of the building from state to city, from city to state. That is not the subject of my communication now. However, the negotiations are currently under way, and this is commendable, between the town of Jeseník and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs about the use of this large building, in quotation marks it is called the Pentagon, for joint use. This means that there should be the offices of the Czech Social Security Administration, the Labour Office and also some of the offices of this town Jeseník. In parallel with this, there has been at least ten years' intention to build a new building of the Labour Office in Jeseník. The city of Jeseník is constantly trying to explain rationally and rationally use the building that already stands in Jeseník, which means the former office, i.e. the one in the Pentagon quotation marks. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs constantly adjusts parameters, different conditions. The town of Jeseník tries to meet these conditions when preparing projects. The negotiations will now take place about 20 December, if I have the correct information. But I would like to point out that the Ministry of Finance has also extended the building permit for the construction of the new, newly planned employment office in the town of Jeseník outside this building. That is why I would like to appeal, it is right, whether investments are necessary and, of course, they are well documented in this chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but whether this money is spent very effectively, whether there is no waste of funds or the construction of unnecessary buildings. That is why I would like to draw attention to this, because the citizens of Jeseník also draw attention to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u53	Thank you, Madame. Please get to Mrs. Zelienková's microphone. Mr Bendl will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u54	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a legislative technical amendment to my amendment concerning the reconstruction of the prison in Uherský Hradiště. A similar proposal, as Mr Seďa has already presented, whose proposal I would also like to support with this. I would like to make an adjustment that would sound - I propose to allocate CZK 100 million in favour of the correction of the prison in Uherské Hradiště, so far in the chapter of the Ministry of Justice. Furthermore, it would continue as it was forwarded here to the rapporteur to have the material at his disposal. I have already said the reasons in the previous reading, but I would just like to point out one thing, because I would not like to repeat what my colleague, Seďa, said here. His speech was correct and exhausting regarding the prison in Uherské Hradiště. However, I am very sorry about the way the Office of State representation in property matters, which falls under the Ministry of Finance, to the whole matter and progresses from my point of view very inconstructively, as has already been said here. The prison should be repaired on the basis of a memorandum that was closed in the spring of this year during the visit of the Minister of Finance and Minister of Culture in Uherské Hradiště. However, it should be stressed that this property still belongs or is in the jurisdiction of the District Court in Uherské Hradiště. It's necessary property for the district court. The District Court also expects that if the prison is reconstructed, the new premises will be used precisely to allow the district court to be relocated to these premises. However, this is not in the memorandum. [[11.40 hours]] The President of the District Court in Uherské Hradiště merely defends the interests of the district court and wants them to have premises where they can properly carry out their work. I understand her position, I understand that she wants to be mentioned in the transfer protocol that she will be counted on by the district court on these premises, which is why I would like the Ministry of Finance to support her efforts, because she really only defends the interests of the district court. I don't know what interests other parties are defending here when the Office of State representation in property matters behaves very inconstructibly and it can be said that it throws a stick at this institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u55	Thank you. I would like to see Mr Bendl's microphone, Mrs Kovářová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u56	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, fellow Members, I have been performing at second reading on the draft state budget and I have asked a number of questions here that I have not received an answer during the second reading. I therefore expected that, at least when discussing this bill, one of the ministers I addressed would come forward and explain some of the individual items I asked about. A fellow Member, Janulík, when I listened to him, said here - and I quote: "Why do you care when the result is clear in advance?" It was thought that income would grow further and that the economy was growing and so on. However, the debate is not only about large numbers, but it is also about small ones, because it points to the principle of managing funds. You may remember, I asked here for example, because we should not only talk about billions here, but also about millions and possibly explain why it is so necessary to increase some expenditure items as proposed. I will just repeat that I have not received an answer, for example, to the question of why the Ministry of Regional Development, which significantly proposes increasing the number of officials in the Ministry, increases the amount to consulting, advisory and legal services. This year, they needed a sum of 1,165 million. CZK, they're gonna need 44.7 next year. Why is that? What is actually important is to be reported next year when the Ministry of Regional Development increases very substantially the number of officials per MMR, so it should be able to solve problems with its own efforts, but now it proposes 42 million. CZK 1.1 or 1.2 to 44 million. to raise consulting and consulting services, even connected with international cooperation, because if you look below the line, into an analysis of what is actually taking place there at the Ministry of Regional Development. I also asked, maybe for someone a detail, but if the Ministry of Regional Development needs 1.4 miles to cater this year. And he's planning 7.7 next year, so I want to know what's going to happen so important if we need to increase 6 miles. for a feast at the Ministry of Regional Development. What's going on in there? [[Voice from the O.R. Party.]] Somebody calls me a party. I don't know if the taxpayer can appreciate this. These may be details from the point of view of a large, billion-dollar budget, but this suggests something about the principle of money management. Nor did I receive answers to questions about serious things, such as flood control measures. There's nothing in the Ministry of Agriculture chapter for next year. There were 800 miles this year. Crowns. I asked the Minister of Agriculture whether we didn't expect any floods to come or if it was all done. How's the situation? I also asked if the Department of Agriculture was planning to be prepared for some sort of emergency. We know that sometimes a drought occurs in the Czech Republic, and we should be prepared for such measures. And so I asked if the Department of Agriculture was prepared for such a situation, what would happen if an extraordinary event came up, how we were prepared for it. The second serious question, when we are talking across the political spectrum at the agricultural committee's meeting about how crucial it is to support the maintenance of water in the landscape, how we want to support this issue instead in the water management area of the proposed expenditure, with the utmost knowledge of the need for water resources in the Czech Republic. The aids are falling. From 1.5 billion that were in support of water management this year, next year we go to 500 million, that is 800 million. less. This does not indicate that words are met with actions and that it really is a priority for the government, namely for the Ministry of Agriculture, water management in the countryside. Instead, there are new and new grant titles that I am deeply convinced to appear in other chapters. To put it simply, the subsidies of tens of millions of crowns per year to chapels should go from other chapters, especially from regional budgets, perhaps the Ministry of Regional Development or the Ministry of Culture, but I do not understand why the Ministry of Agriculture is constantly swelling such grant titles. I asked what kind of priority is this, if the agricultural sector doesn't have a slightly different priority, if we're not to talk about food quality, if we're not to talk about how we're going to support primary production and the like. Unfortunately, these questions have not been answered here by the Minister of Agriculture and specific figures point to what is actually a priority in this chapter. And the last one. The only minister addressed here is the Home Secretary. I'm already on the committee, and he knows it well, even here at second reading, he said 20 miles. CZK to prevent crime in the Czech Republic is the same as if there was nothing at all. As if we didn't think this matter was crucial or important. Because it can be nothing but a bear, because it is far from possible to cover the needs of the Czech Republic in the area of crime prevention. Instead, there are key things - I can contrast it with the fact that we repair the canteen in 57 miles. CZK, but crime prevention is at 20 miles. Crowns. That's not a priority. Don't put that in there at all. That's total nonsense. You better save the money and put it in something that's more efficient. But maybe that's how the budget is set up, because it's gonna be before the election, and it's gonna have to be handing out some presents here or there. But the efficiency of at least these small numbers shows that it is therefore very limping and that we certainly do not treat this state budget as a family company, although it often sounds and sounds here in the past. I can't believe anybody at home is wasting the resources they're wasting here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u57	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and please to the microphone of Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová, Mr. Kořenek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u58	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I would like to present, as at second reading, my amendment under letter B5, the essence of which is to increase the expenditure of Chapter 398 of the General Treasury in the government budget reserve indicator by CZK 5 million 456 thousand 712 and, secondly, to reduce the expenditure of Chapter 301 The Office of the President of the Republic for the same amount in the employment salary indicator, excluding staff at the posts. Let me briefly justify my amendment. It is proposed to reduce the expenditure of Chapter 301, as I mentioned, the salaries of employees in employment, excluding staff in employment, by 10 percent, which corresponds to the amount of funds of more than CZK 5 million. I would like to underline that the proposal does not change the amount of appropriations budgeted to the salary of the President of the Republic. I propose a reduction in response to the long-term situation in which the Office of the President of the Republic does not do professional work and shames the Czech Republic and the institution of the President of the Republic at home and abroad, whether it is a false statement by the Castle Press Spokesperson, the failure of the Chief Logist to ensure the timely arrival of the President at the national funeral of the former President of the Slovak Republic, Kováč, or the fact that there has been no security clearance at the head of the Office of the President of the Republic for several years. It'll be four years soon. But they're not the only missteps we've witnessed by these gentlemen. Let us remember that when the NATO Secretary-General was adopted by Mr Stoltenberg, there was a UN flag hanging at the Castle instead of the NATO flag. The President of the Republic Zeman also criticized Ambassador Schapir for not attending the celebrations of the national festival on October 28 at the Castle. He said he received this information from the castle protocol. The castle spokesperson Ovčáček subsequently responded that the Ambassador was present but that he was invisible. And I hear there's no need to apologize to the invisible. Let us remember how Ovčáček responded to the late arrival of the President at the funeral of the former President of the Slovak Republic, Kováč. He wasn't aiming criticism into his own ranks, but he was accusing Air Traffic řízení of misconduct. The next chapter is Chancellor Mynář. Not only has he been working at the Castle for many years without security clearance, he not only has kept his salary a secret for a long time, so that we can then find out that his salary is higher than the Prime Minister's salary, not only has he built up his property return, virtually. His solemn statement, but it causes confusion in the ranks of the Castle Guard. They complain about the confusion and meaningless orders and blame Chancellor Mynář. For example, he ordered the closure of the eastern gate at the Black Tower, causing a complication of many employees and members of the Castle Guard. The reasons seem to be purely private. The chancellor lives by this tower, and there's a lot of traffic in the area, and the chancellor wants peace. This may not be the only situation in which it carries out its private interests through its official powers. Chancellor Mynář, for example, is supposed to open the jelení Trench because he needs to run there. And the final straw or the top is that the Castle Guard must pay tribute to the Chancellor. This honor, however, is due only to the President of the Republic, to constitutional officials or to state visits, or to military persons, but not to the chancellors of the President of the Republic. As a result of this behavior of the castle chancellor, a third of the most experienced members of the department are considering leaving. And I could keep going, but I think we've heard enough. The purpose of the proposal is, first of all, to send a message to the President that the cup of patience of the Chamber of Deputies is beginning to overflow. It is the President of the Republic who is responsible for his co-workers and their excesses. And as long as he suffers, even directly or indirectly, from supporting unprofessional and untrustworthy persons around him, he does not appear to be justified for taxpayers to contribute to their remuneration. I would like to add that yesterday's announced departure of Jindřich Forejt does not change my proposal. Yes, Mr. Forejt messed up a lot, Mr. Forejt has butter on his head, but I'm sure he doesn't have any more than Mr. Ovčáček, Mynář or, perhaps, Secretary Mr. Nejedlý. It would be wrong to forget about Forejtův's end in some sensational debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u59	Thank you, Madame, and please to the microphone of Mr Kořenko, Mr Kučera will be prepared. I'm sorry, Mr Stanjura, with priority rights. I'm very sorry, I haven't seen the Prime Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President, while you're at it, he's free to go to lunch. [[Laughs in the hall.]] I promised at second reading that I would comment on some parameters and data in the state budget. First I'll start with the specific ones and then I'll go to the general plane. It will not allow me to go over the quite detailed amendments that have already been approved by the Committee on Budgets before the second reading, and allow me to ask questions on this occasion to those ministers who are making changes to those already approved and recommended amendments by the Committee on Budgets. I just noticed, after second reading, the Minister of Finance said that he would not support any amendment that would take money from the government debt service. So what to say is that among those - I will then show this - the proposals that have already been approved by the government majority of the Committee on Budgets, there are several amendments that are taken from the chapter of the government debt service. So my question to the Minister of Finance is, if this applies absolutely and does not support them and expresses a negative opinion on where they come from, then I understand it, it is the right system approach and it will not be divided according to who the author is. Let's go to the first one. It's in the A1 materials for those of you who would like to follow me and control me. It is a proposal to move around 8.2 million to the Railway Office staff within the scope of the Transport Ministry chapter. This may be hard to argue with, but at the same time, the 8.2 million are taken from first-class road repair and maintenance. Do we really have a first-class road in such a good condition that we can remove it from the chapter? I do not think so, and I would like to know the opinion of the Minister of Transport on this recommended amendment that has been passed by the Committee on Budgets - 8 million 160 thousand. [[Note to the rapporteur: Votavy: Economic Committee.]] I'm not a member of the Economic Committee, I don't know, maybe even the Economic Committee. For the record, the rapporteur says it's okay. But I ask Minister Took, not members of the budget or economic committee. The first amendment taken from the chapter...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u61	Yes, I'll ask my colleagues to take their seats. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u62	That was like synchronized swimming or a synchronized debate. Amendment A2 proposes to increase the expenditure of the General Inspectorate of the Security Corps to increase the number, raise salaries, increase the security of the GIBS premises, acquire defensive technology - pity that not offensive - to purchase 30 PCs and laptops. The fact that such a detail, 30 laptops and a PC, is being dealt with by an amendment tells me that in that chapter of the Ministry of the Interior, they probably couldn't figure it out, when that little thing... [[A note from the Minister of Interior off the microphone.]] Okay, he doesn't belong there. I'm sorry, Home Secretary, it doesn't belong to him. I hope they will not support this amendment, because - and this is the first case - the 107 710 361 kroner - it is interesting that it is counted to the koruna. I wonder who counted it. I know it's already in the budget committee's resolution today, but if there was an author of the amendment, I'd like to know exactly why it's 107 710 361. What if the laptops get cheaper? Well, that's good news. What if it gets expensive? This will be a budget measure of about 8 crowns, or 8 thousand crowns, or 80 thousand crowns.? But - and now seriously - the 107 million, and that's not a very small amount, it's proposed to take out of Chapter 396 State debt, cut spending on government debt. That's the first case. And I assume that the Minister of Finance will give a negative opinion on this amendment, which has already been passed by the Committee on Budgets. Consider the proposal under the number A5 of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. It is proposed to increase the entry in Chapter 333 in a specific indicator to support youth activity by 50 million. CZK with a sum of 4 million from this increase. CZK is intended for other payments for the work carried out by the contribution organisations. Again, I'm surprised that such a small amount of 4 miles. CZK is the subject of an amendment to the draft state budget, where it is CZK 1,300 billion. expenditure. And we're dealing with four miles here. It's an A5. And again, money was found in Chapter 396 of the State Debt in the State Debt Service Indicator. That's 157 miles. Only in those two items. Let's go to Amendment A6, which once again concerns the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. It's going up 100 miles. It is the expenditure of regional education and directly managed by organisations by 100 million. Crowns. I think it's a good, really good increase in expenses. But for the third time, and we are only on the sixth budgetary measure, the money in quotation marks is found in Chapter 396 State debt indicator of the government debt operator. Another 100 miles. We already have a quarter of a billion. And we have only three budget measures, which the government majority has already recommended. Let's go to the amendment under the number A8, where the indicator in Chapter 313 of the Non-investment Non-Various Transfers to the municipalities of the ORP is increasing, i.e. three-way municipalities, municipalities with extended scope, not all of them to not all rejoice, by an amount of 220 million. SPOD. Apparently, it means social-legal protection for children. Again, I'd say a good raise, a proper raise, but where it's located the 220 miles.? In doses of material distress. And that's right. But how is it that such absurdly high benefits in material distress have passed through the government? The President of the Republic spoke of this in this morning's speech. So unemployment is falling, wages are rising, and we are increasing unemployment benefits, increasing aid in material distress. [[Prime Minister's note off the microphone.]] Raise. And that's why... [[Again, Prime Minister's remark: Volume.]] Prime Minister, then you have the opportunity to respond to the microphone. This is how poor other colleagues in the House are about your inspiring comments, so let's leave it to the microphone. We will support this amendment. And I want to ask the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs - she always says she listens to me, she doesn't have to sit here, so I greet her, I don't know where she listens to me - if she agrees. And if so, why did she even propose the benefits in material distress so high that we can easily take 220 miles here.? And I say, that's right. So you don't take it as a criticism of the amendment. And our club will, of course, support this amendment. The next amendment recommended by at least a government majority in the Committee on Budgets reduces expenditure in unemployment support. That's right. I was just saying why that was right. But the amount is over 320 miles. Crowns. The second question to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs - if she agrees to it, and if so, how does he actually plan the budget when he can easily say: 322 miles. I can relax and put somewhere else. It's headed right, that is. to develop and restore the material-technical base of social services, but why wasn't it already in the draft state budget? What did the members of the government do to agree to such a high amount of unemployment support? Or maybe they were just creating a political space to show a kind face here and say, "We found some money for you, look, we pushed it through"? So that's the second question to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, who should be the first to sit here next to the Minister of Finance, because she has the most sovereign chapter in the state budget. And she wasn't even here at second reading. I don't remember it at first. But there should be someone who advocates such huge expenses to be able to respond to questions, suggestions, or even. and criticism. That's what the President was talking about. And he was right that this government did nothing to limit social benefits to those who abuse them. Not to those who deserve them. But to those who abuse them. We Members have taken one of the possible measures across the political spectrum so that municipalities can decide whether or not a housing supplement will pay off. And the President of the Republic has identified it correctly as an area where unnecessary waste occurs. And the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, hand in hand with the Minister of the Interior and with his Ministry, suddenly made an interpretation of the law and say, "That's in the law, but we have here a paper from the Ministry of the Interior that it's just a recommendation position. So one of the only possible instruments has been pushed through by us, together, by the amendment, almost all of us who have been to the vote. And behold, the Homeland and the MPSV took it out of the law. I can already see - it may not be, but very often a social democracy representative also talks about the need to combat those who abuse social benefits. They really don't want to fight it. Remember how difficult the amendment to the law of aid in material distress is being discussed. We returned it to second reading. That we would find a greater understanding for the municipalities so that they could at least determine in their segment who needs the dose and who is taking advantage of it, we have not yet received that understanding. A nice amendment is A12. They testify that those who know budgetary policy and want to give new spending know that it is crucial for them to have a line in that budget. řádek. I don't care if it's zero. Because next year, when the next draft budget is approved, someone will look, the line is already there, last year the poor people had zero, so let's put something in there. So the amendment A12 is based on still invalid legislation. We have been discussing, unfortunately, unsuccessfully, because the strongest government party has rejected the opposition's offer and rejected the financial constitution, these measures have been reflected in the ordinary law. It was no surprise to me that the senát rejected it. What was surprising to me, in a positive sense, is that 65 out of 67 senators who were present voted in favour of this rejection, maybe the number is not entirely accurate, but almost everyone present. The dominant majority of the Senate. And the President of the Senate Social Democracy Club said to the media: If the House overrules us, I will be the first to sign a constitutional complaint against a violation of the Constitution. [[12.10 hours]] But this time, the Senate didn't find anything we didn't know about. We have repeatedly pointed out a collision with the Constitution if you want to limit the Constitution's guaranteed income to municipalities by ordinary law. You didn't hear, you pretended you didn't hear. Now let's see how you react to this rejection from the Senate. We will oppose it for these very reasons, because the law, in our opinion, is unconstitutional. And I'm glad that almost all the senators are in charge of this bill, and when I looked at how the senators who are applying to government clubs voted, they were in the vast majority also in favour of rejection. But in the amendment under A12, we are creating the line - an indicator of the chapter of the Office of the National Budget Board to simply be there. And we are very often in dispute, and for many years, no matter who is in control at this time, we are debating whether, in particular, if tax revenue is estimated...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u63	I'm very sorry. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, please transfer your calls to the foyer. Mr President, please continue when colleagues are quiet. Those who don't quiet down, so I'll name them personally and throw them into the lobby in person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u64	By interrupting me, I lost my thread, and I can start over, but--
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u65	I'm sorry, I didn't want you to lose track.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u66	No, no, Mr. Vice-President. You're right, but the noise level hasn't dropped at all over your appeal. So I'll get back to it. I say that we have been arguing for years when we estimate, because it is nothing more than an estimate of more or less qualified, tax revenues, whether or not laws are to be included in the draft state budget. It's a long-standing feud. But here we create an item with zero, but for an office that has not yet been created. It's not about whether we estimate whether there's a higher tax income or a lower tax income. We're creating something here that doesn't apply yet. I don't think it's very loud. If legislation says it's voteable - I don't know, maybe we can put an item that there's zero on a non-existent office. It's quite absurd, but if the legislation says it's voteable, I'm going to ask you all not to vote for it, because we could say that we still want to set up some authorities, and we'd already put that item there, even with zero, just to be sure this year, so we can see that we're thinking about it and that the office is very important. A14 - changes in the budget of the Ministry of Justice - Uherské Hradiště prison, an amount of 15 million. No offense. I think that Mrs Zielenková proposal is more realistic and better, where the amount is not 15, but 100 miles. But why am I talking about this? I'll see where the Justice Department found it. Mr. Finance Minister, even the Pelikán won't listen to you! He also wrote that he would take money from the government debt service. It's the Justice Department that gets the money at the expense of running a government debt. So again, the purpose of putting money is good, but the government MPs weren't very creative. So they're focusing on a chapter in government debt, and now they're pulling money from it one after another, or maybe one after another. I do not know exactly who is the author of these amendments. Then we have special budgetary measures. We're taking the money. General Treasury Administration in the indicator of other expenses, item compensation for costs incurred by the Czech National Bank in connection with the conclusion and implementation of bilateral lending agreements to the International Monetary Fund by an amount of 50 million. Crowns. I am quite frankly saying that in order to make a qualified decision on this amendment, I would need to know from the Minister of Finance what commitments we have, and if this amendment goes through, if it happens to violate our international commitments. I can't trace it anywhere. But with such a light hand, the amount is taken - and it is written on the basis of international obligations. And we don't know if we can afford it or not. If we can afford it, it's okay. But if we approved this and then it turns out that the Czech Republic did not fulfil its international obligations during the year, it would not be good. And go ahead - nothing against the National Gallery, but a little teddy bear, right? Digital Gallery - Accessing Image Information in the Open Access Centre and the Images in motion program - 8 miles. Crowns. I say again, nothing against this activity, but why is this being dealt with by an amendment at the expense of international commitments? Didn't the Minister of Culture know that when he was preparing a draft state budget? This should be in some global indicator that will be sent to the National Gallery, and the management of the National Gallery will certainly be able to deal with it if it makes Open Access and Paintings in motion, or the paintings in peace. It is Amendment A17, which has been passed by the Committee on Budgets. And since the reduction in expenditure resulting from the international agreements of the Ministry of Culture has obviously been pleasing, the following amendment, which you have in the background under the number A18, takes 100 million. This time it is from the general treasury administration, indicator of other expenditures, item of commitment expenses arising from international contracts for EU and FM budget revenue - I don't know exactly what FM is, if it is a financial mechanism, I don't know. Maybe you all know. If I don't know, I'll ask. - for a hundred miles. Crowns. I think that's a problematic cut in expenses. However, the positive is that 100 miles. He's supposed to go to the restoration of monuments. If we don't accept the new landmark law, it'll be good, and maybe the money will be used. Another amendment, and this is the third question to the absent Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Another amendment, which again takes benefits in material distress and has regained majority support thanks mainly to coalition Members - 200 million, and it is given to transfers under the Social Services Act. So if we sum up these 19 recommended amendments that have passed through the Committee on Budgets, 400 million. - reduction of benefits in material distress. Right, but why are they in the budget? It's not a marginary so the secretary doesn't know she was wrong about 400 miles. Over a quarter of a billion, almost 300 million, from the government debt service. Over 320 miles. from unemployment benefits and over 150 million. the international obligations arising from the treaties - the one with the International Monetary Fund, thanks to the drawing of EU aid. If you add it up, you're about one billion. How could the budget go through the government without these amendments? Or are these proposals that individual ministers have not enforced within the government and have found here some MP who made it? Such a thing from the committee - for it to be from the committee to know who, we would have to have a charter here and say: these members of the budget committee supported it. The Committee never proposes an amendment. I think we all know that after three years. There's always a writer. It's true that if the committee passes, he'll hide a little. It is, as the chairman of the budget committee here says, a committee proposal, and we don't really know who signed up for it anymore. But, of course, it is much more politically advantageous for the opposition, and I am not hiding it, reading the proposals at second reading, because we are not getting away with it on those committees when we have a minority, but that is not surprising. So we're going to our amendments, and I'm going to get to them in a minute, we're applying. You know exactly who suggested it. Very often, when I talk about our proposals, it is a proposal supported by the whole club, but because, like the committee and the club can't submit amendments, there is always someone signed under it. [[12.20 hours]] I therefore firmly hope that we will vote on each of these proposals separately, Mr rapporteur. Thank you. That's certainly a good thing. That was the smaller amount. Perhaps we could still mention, we have a relatively large number of accompanying resolutions proposed here. I would probably like to explain the proposal for an accompanying resolution from the Minister for Regional Development: The Chamber of Deputies recommends to the Government that, under the chapter of the State Budget 398, the General Treasury, under the heading of the Government Budget Reserve, should reserve funds for 2017 up to 400 million. The crown, to cover the event. Eligible commitments, including additional costs from possible legal proceedings and late payment charges for regional cohesion councils of the regions in connection with the cessation of their activities. I didn't vote for it. To vote in favour, I'd have to know how many lawsuits are going on. What's the subject of these lawsuits? If there's a late payment, that means someone, that means some public institution, didn't pay? How did we get $400 million? Why is it, if it is so serious, why didn't the Minister push it in the context of the government budget? At the same time, that is b), the same recommendation or motion for an accompanying resolution: The Chamber of Deputies... so I would see it tonight when you ask at what time. [[He responds to an incomprehensible question from the O.R.]] . Thank you. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government, in agreement with regional representations, to submit to the Committee on Budgets a proposal for a solution to settle the legitimate obligations arising from previous decisions of the Regional Councils of the Cohesion Regions. I have always admired who came up with the name of the Regional Council of the Cohesion Region. That must have been some longtime clerk, and he certainly deserves that tenure in the service bill, because he's such a grumpy name to come up with, that's gonna keep everyone from even asking what it's doing. That's what the Ministry of Regional Development does. [[A note from the O.R.]] Yeah, I'm not saying that, maybe for you, maybe it was for the Sobots when he was Secretary of Finance. This was before the creation of the first programming period. But I'd like to appreciate the official, whether it was yours or our government. That name is really magical. The idea here is the accompanying resolution: the government will allocate 400 million, now someone, apparently the government or one of the ministers, will negotiate with the generals or the regional councils, will come forward with a proposal to the budget committee, and it will approve it. That's probably the idea. I do not understand what we need this resolution for. We're asking the government to deal with the authorities. I would like to presume that the government would deal with the authorities without the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. [[Another note from the diaper.]] It doesn't matter that it's Kalouskův's proposal. You see, I'm fair, I'm not just going to the government. I really don't understand. Well, it went through the budget committee. Your Members had to support this, otherwise it is not possible. But if we don't understand it, we're in favour of not approving it. I think the government really knows that sometimes it could deal with the authorities, and now I especially think that... then I can get to the black cube in the amendments. I firmly hope, as a Member of the Moravian-Silesian Region, that together we will support priority number one of the new governor to build a black cube for the participation of state money. That would be nice and undoubtedly beneficial for the Moravian-Silesian region. So, then, we can go to those amendments that fell as part of the second reading. I do not know how this happened, by any chance all the proposals proposed by the opposition Members have a negative position. We need to improve, colleagues, in opposition, somehow we cannot convince the Ministry of Finance of our view of the matter. You see, I'm heading into my own ranks. I'm not looking for politics. I'm sure it was judged fair and square. I have to tell you. Today we examined the amendments to the tax package. Sometimes it's magical when the D.O.D. writes a statement before it's needed. One Member, a government member, I will not appoint him not to be in trouble from the Prime Minister, it is from his side, he tabled an amendment to the EET before the second reading, and that was not yet allowed. That wasn't allowed yet. And the Ministry of Finance's position is absolutely uncompromising and precise - a wild rider, an adhesive, unconstitutional. Really uncompromising. The MP read it, understood it, didn't. [[Laughter from the right.]] After that, however, the situation changed, there was a time when amendments to the EET could already be tabled, and Mr Andrej Babiš submitted it, not as Minister of Finance, but as a Member. He has every right to do so, like all of us. And let's see -- and that was a long position on that wild rider of that MP of the government. And let us read the long statement of the Minister of Finance on the same matter. I'll read it all to you, maybe I know it by heart. The opinion is: yes. [[Laughter from the right.]] Nothing more, nothing less. Oh, really. That's obvious, if the Treasury had waited for that negative opinion on the first draft, they'd have coordinated it better, wouldn't they? It's really funny that way, and I'm really amused by the Secretary's reasoning. We treat everyone the same way. It's a total coincidence that when he was a Social Democrat, he was a wild rider and a sticker, and when he was a Mr. Babiš, it's okay. It's a total coincidence. Then we calmed down. And it was probably similar to the amendments submitted by the opposition in the second reading. My colleague Jana Černochová here, I think, has made it quite clear and pregnant to explain why there is a need to increase the cost of defense. Instead of appreciating such a state-building move by the opposition, the government said: we don't spend it, we don't know, that's the problem, and here's the problem, and the Secretary of Defense doesn't really want it, they might want it. We forgot a little bit, if we take that amount, the one billion that's for fighting cyber crime. No one's talked about her, but the government is rejecting her, too. If you ask your own people who belong professionally in this area, the amount is not maximal. It's more at the bottom of what's needed. And that cybercrime is a big problem, that modern technology is used by terrorists and similar criminal elements, is clear. And you're going to reject the one billion for this key area of state security. And I'm asking why. It's even special, so it can be voted separately. You're already saying the Secretary of Defense doesn't know what to do with the money. But at least that's what you should support in Military Intelligence if you're serious about fighting cybercrime, and I think you're serious, or you should mean it. And we really mean it, but besides those words, we also suggested we transfer the money. And we showed you 30 billion. savings, so you can choose from the palette. There are 19 concrete proposals to find it. Of course, we are talking about benefits in material distress, of course we are proposing to reduce unemployment aid, of course we are proposing to reduce subsidies. You can choose. So consider at least this area, this amendment, which is without doubt good and is long-term and does not come out for anyone or for the opposition, no political benefit or political gain, which is very difficult to sell and is not to sell. Defense spending should have a higher consensus than the current government majority. Because I agree that these acquisitions take a long time, and we can ask why they last a long time, and that's a debate for another time. But according to the law, and I don't think we've changed that, if you want to write a contract, you must already have the money allocated. So I understand the argument or the fear that not all competitions could end by the end of 2017, and we also know that. We don't question that. But by not putting the money in, you can't even start it. How are you gonna start this if you don't have the money? That's not possible by law. And that's not what you're talking about. [[12.30 hours]] So try me, Prime Minister, you're actually putting it off for two years, because if we don't put it in, the army can't write it down in 2017. So maybe in a year this House in a different composition, at least personnel, maybe even political, can put it there, but we'll lose the year when the competitions could run, there could be any objections to the contestants. We know that's one of the reasons it's taking a long time. We're gonna lose that year because you just don't know how to handle it. And it's a great shame, because it's not a proposal that somehow nudges the government and does something against its political convictions. If you mean your words about safety being a priority, turn those words into votes. Because I've always said that if you want to know the priorities of the community, the county or the budget, don't listen to what they're saying, look at the budget. These are the real priorities of a specific political representation in the community, in the city, on the edge, in this case in the state. You just can't see it there. With great fame, we have gained information that next year we will have 1.08 percent of GDP, and we are little longer saying the whole two percent sentence, which is our commitment, which is just over 50 percent. That would be a mess if the taxpayer paid a little over 50 percent and said, "Look, I already paid 0.51 taxes this year. That's better, last year it was 0.49. Well, that deserves a compliment. And we're not suggesting jumping - the Prime Minister was talking about jumping up. Jumping would be at 2 percent of GDP. And that would really not be realistic. But that's not a jump increase. If we simplify our calculations and say that GDP is approximately 5 trillion - don't hold me at the word that it's not still 5 trillion, but let's make it count, so what's one tenth out of 5 trillion? Well, no one wants to count that. Now compare it to the amount of $9 billion in armor. It's nothing we can't afford. And we have enough to carry out our defense expenses. And the sooner the better. Other amendments justified by members of our club. Of course, I meant it a little funny, or a joke, those science libraries. We have a situation here when we look backwards at the fact that regional libraries were created with the participation of the state budget, and that is correct because it is the promotion of education in a broader sense. And now there are regions that are ready to make such an investment in these months or years and need help from the state. If we have 55 billion in treasury supplies or in treasury supplies at the end of November, plus 55 billion, and then I hear that there is no 300 million in libraries to support education, then I ask: Is the promotion of education a priority for this government? Is it or isn't it? I think you have a chance to show that it is. This proposal is indeed minimalist in order for the investments to be launched. It's not for the investments to be completed. But anyone who knows the public administration processes knows that it is important to start, because then next year it would be much better to negotiate. Let's go to the amendments, rather the ones I'm interested in. Of course, as a member of the opposition, I was much more interested in the proposals made by government colleagues than by opposition colleagues. What really surprised me, and now really think of it as a surprise, not as opposed to - the Vice Prime Minister for Science and Research dealing with budgetary measures, the amendment, spending in this area. He takes himself, among other things, not only to himself, he takes himself and sends it to research in universities. The proposal's not bad. There's no reason not to vote for him, but the legitimate question for Mr. Vice Prime Minister is, didn't he know that? Or didn't he enforce it on the government? We're having a debate here, just when it's not right, so the Prime Minister and members of the government don't want to hear an indicator of the share of GDP, and they're still fencing an absolute number, while I was already making it clear at second reading that the share of spending on science, research and innovation against GDP has fallen by 0.13% during the functioning of this government, which is not so little. If it was 30 wholes or 30.13, it wouldn't matter. And if it's 0.97 % and 0.84 %, it's 13 hundredths, but the percentage isn't small at all. It's a proposal under B16 and I'm just saying our club will support it. I was just expressing a mild surprise. In general, I expected that, as part of the debate at first, second, third reading, government Members and individual ministers would be much more passionate about defending this budget. It's obvious that this isn't happening. I don't think they want to defend something that's not defendable. That's quite a logical explanation. Or they don't really know what's in the budget, so they prefer to keep their mouths shut, because if you step up and want to suggest some changes, at least in those two chapters where you're taking them and where you're putting them, at least those two chapters should be studied. I'm going back to the general notes I started. When we listened to Keynesian supporters, the Social Democrat Miloš Zeman this morning, he was talking about the investments. We were not surprised by this, it is a long-term topic on which the President has been expressing himself all the time in politics, which is 26 years old, because today he started dating modern Czech politics in 1990. I'd leave it for the end of 1989, but so be it. And even though we're fencing with the numbers, the indicator that's in government material that I'm going to show you where the plan and the reality is over the years that are already closed, and the plan for next year, it's saying that the government doesn't actually know how to deal with the revenue that the state budget has. Only 52 billion from national resources, up to just under 104 billion, which is indeed 10 billion less, for example, than in 2012. I have already talked about the share of spending on science, research, innovation against GDP. Even here, it's decreasing by 0.13 percent. Let me remind you that in your government, the number of civil servants has increased by 30,000, and the wage costs in just one item are about 28 billion, which is half the deficit proposed. So far, I have lavishly challenged the Minister, I did it at the beginning of the second reading, so that he could live up to his words when he said, "I, if I could, will present a balanced budget" to show us the savings of 60 billion. So he kept quiet first, and then he said, "I'd cut the claims from the past few years." Well, that's a tool. I can cut the budget, too. The question is, Minister, which ministries. Those are the real savings. If you want to cut someone's 60 billion, that's you - and I agree with you - those are the famous unused ones in quotes - now the worst word comes up - claims. Claims. So instead of possibly appreciating the minister or his ministry for not spending everything, they thanked him for contributing to the state, so no, we invented the word claim and be cool. If you don't spend it this year, you're entitled to it and you can spend it next year. The debate isn't black and white. It can't be said that everything is going to fail or that everything is going to stay. That is what we are - by the way, to make sure that it is not at a time when the magic word has not yet been claimed, state funds have been set up. And that's true as always in politics. If you do anything, it's very hard to cancel. So we have the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, which was created because - and I wasn't there, it's a really ancient history - because there were no demands at the time, and what the Ministry of Transport couldn't invest in construction or repair, so-called, fell to the Minister of Finance or the Ministry of Finance or the State. That's why the SFDI was set up. [[12.40 hours]] Today, we have the magic word for "property." If the government doesn't change that with its executive decision, it won't take any of those claims. And do we still have the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure? We do. When I wanted to cancel it, that was screaming! Really, I've been getting that from every side I've ever taken. The exact same case is the State Housing Development Fund. That's the title! The state has a housing development fund. [[A note from the diaper.]] The minister says we're disturbing him. I don't know, the government is in the last year of its operation, and so far no motion to abolish the fund has come, but if it comes, I'm just saying we'll support it. Really, we agree on that. When there's a magic word for "property," you don't need any funds. And so we don't forget, it's the State Housing Development Fund. The minister says he'll cancel. I understand political contexts, coalition disputes, contradictions. By chance, all these funds are in the ministers' portfolio for the ANO movement. And nothing, yet. Well, I believe you'll still be able to make it, that would be good. Because, of course, it's distorting the debate, for example. about the investments, when some European money flows into the transport infrastructure, or SFDI, in addition to the State Housing Development Fund, where you have a state contribution, and you no longer have the revenues that SFDI uses by law for transport investment, whether it is a share of excise duty and road tax, etc. So then the debate isn't accurate, and I don't mind. I think that in order to be able to lead on whether the government invests and how much and if well, we actually need it in one material, and not have four materials and now somewhere to add it in excel or on paper and say: well you say only 102 billion. but beware, beware, in the next press or in the next 186 is the budget of SFDI and there are other investments. It's true, but who's supposed to know? And since we have the demands, we definitely won't need the funds. I'd like to hear from the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance here, if the cashier's performance is better than they're planning for next year, if they're going to act like this year with "look how well we did it" or they're going to say "we planned wrong". Remember last December. I stood here, and I represented another 30 billion. the savings presented by the Civil Democratic Party. Ministers, Prime Minister, government MPs said: it is impossible, there is no such savings, it is populism, it must be a deficit of 70 billion. A year and a year came together, not only is the deficit not 70 billion if I take the last number we know, that's November, plus 55, error 125 billion. - Ten percent and that's enough. That's not 1 per cent in the hundreds of millions order. Well, maybe it'll be 20 billion, so it'll only be 100 billion, 8 percent. So misread, misapproved. I know it would be politically worse if we approved the budget not minus 70, minus 40, as we suggested last year, because you couldn't say we're not plus 100. You'd only be plus 60, but it'd be more honest. And what I would read most about the budget. I think that each political party should have a programme, we should also know the other political opponents, opponents, competitors, what programme it has, and if such a party rules or co-governments, it is logical that its programme, its programming priorities will be reflected in the state's management. That is also the point of politics, of offering the program, and when I rule to implement the programme. We have the program, very often here we propose - yet unsuccessfully, but that will change, don't worry - and our proposals also go according to our program. That is, if we say that priority is for us, for example. safety, so we're not looking for safety savings, but we're increasing expenses. If we say that education is a priority in our programme, we have not been looking - and we would probably find something in the Ministry of Education and elsewhere - for savings and, on the contrary, we propose strengthening these chapters. From the draft budget, if you really look at it, you'll read the chapters, you'll find out a simple thing. The government doesn't have a program. Either it's because those parties' programs are somehow zeroing out, and then nothing comes out of it, and the only thing they agree on is minus 60 billion, or they just don't have the program, or they can't get it through. Today, while I was preparing for my performance, I have in my drawer your coalition contract, you have published it, and there is, among other things, a provision that is quite common, standard, was also in other coalition contracts, even under our governments. And it says that within the budget and tax laws of the party must find a consensus and cannot be overvoted. You have it in black and white in your coalition contract. So you all have the responsibility for spending - for spending - all of you. It's not that simple: I'd like to have zero, but the socialists and the people, they've chopped up 60 billion for me. If you had used this institute in your coalition agreement, you could not have been signed under this proposal if you did not agree with it. But you agreed with him. So at least admit it, say it, convince us that in times of economic growth, record employment, record low unemployment, we need such a high deficit. And if you could at least use that deficit in areas such as transport infrastructure, education, red tape cutting, simplifying the system, it would be something worth considering and debating. You're not doing any of this. That is why we cannot support this draft budget. Within our limited options, we will vote on individual amendments, and I firmly believe that, thanks to cooperation and votes from the ANO movement, we will not take either of the items of the government debt service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u67	I thank the President of the Civic Democratic Party. With a factual remark, Mr Antonín Seďa. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u68	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I just made two brief comments on the President of the Civic Democratic Party. Apparently he wasn't here during the whole debate. I personally applied to Amendment A14 - that's the prison, the 15 million, I'm not ashamed of it. I have to defend a little of the Minister of Justice who wasn't here because he didn't know about the proposal and he didn't. And second point, that's the billion proposed for Military Intelligence. We should measure the same subway because the law, or the amendment to the Military Intelligence Act, which introduces cyber defense, has not yet been approved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u69	Thank you. With a point of fact, President Stanjura now. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u70	Sometimes it's really difficult, Mr Seďa, through the Vice-President. I registered 15 miles. For the prison, but where did you find them? That's not what you're talking about. That's how we understand each other. I said it was a good boost, but a bad source of the money. That's how it is. And don't tell us that if there's no law, there's no cyber defense yesterday, today, tomorrow, this month. That's just not true. It's not true. I'm not an expert on security and security policy, but I'm sure the defense is still underway today without us approving the law, because that's just how it has to be. I think we all get it. Then don't use this - as I would say politely - such a weak argument.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u71	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Petr Kořenek, now duly enrolled in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u72	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to be very brief because there have been references from the mouth of the previous speaker to the two amendments A5, A6. It's 50 miles. for young people, on the Excellency programme, on cross-border cooperation that cannot be covered by other European funds, and on A6 which is the promotion of technical and natural sciences education. I understand, of course, that when it comes to the government debt management chapter, it is a very sensitive matter, and I am not a fan of living on debt and not paying debts. Nevertheless, it is a chapter in education, it is a question of youth, it is the promotion of talent, it is the promotion of technical education. I think it's a good investment that could come back. That is why I have taken the liberty of asking the Minister of Finance to consider my position on these amendments. Of course, I believe that if these proposals are not supported, we will look for a way through the government to support technical education and to support youth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u73	Thank you. Another duly signed up is Mrs Markéta Wernerová. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u74	Hello, esteemed colleagues. As part of the state budget discussion, I would like to draw your attention to the amendment of the State budget of the Committee on Education, Culture, Youth and Sports under order number A7. It's a 150-mile transfer. CZK within the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. Therefore, this is not about increasing the state debt. This is only a transfer under the chapter, and I would therefore like to ask for your support. For aid to promote sports representation of 150 million. Crowns. This proposal would be aimed precisely at supporting sports centres and our sports representation. Not only political representation, but also athletes represent our country and can create a positive picture of the Czech Republic in the world. That is why they can also be a positive example of our youth. I would therefore like to ask you to raise your hand for this amendment, because it is precisely this amendment that we believe makes sense. It makes sense to promote sports and professional sports. And in order to allow our athletes to play sports in a dignified environment, we have taken the liberty of proposing this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u75	Thank you, Mrs Wernerová. And so far, Mr Klaška is the last member of the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u76	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I am, like all my previous speakers, asking for the support of my proposal for an accompanying resolution on the state budget, so that the government will transfer this year's unused money to transport infrastructure to repair regional roads in the next year, as it was last year and this year. Why? When the regions were established, part of the transport infrastructure, i.e. the regional roads, the second and third class roads, got into the wine. They got them with considerable internal debt. At the meeting of the Economic Committee, together with representatives of the Ministry of Transport, we discussed how much funds they received from the State or are still receiving today. Today, they do not receive any special funds except in the last two years of our subsidies through the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, and today they have everything through the RUD, i.e. the budgetary determination of taxes. In my opinion, this is a great incentive for the regions that are repairing these roads, and they have actually been repairing themselves to an increased degree over the past two years, and we are driving on ever-better and better roads. This requires that this continue until the end of this parliamentary term, and then perhaps we can find a system tool. It is also through the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, it is according to the rules as it has been and the state still has control over these finances, what the regions are repairing in return. My main argument is that, based on the experience so far, it turns out that roads are being increased - that's okay, that's good - but we're a little caught up in coordination. Usually, before everything is processed, it is summer, then many roads are closed, many routes are created and useless columns are created. If we could tell the regions as soon as possible this year that they will receive the usual amount of funds next year, the regions can get ready for repairs of regional roads through the winter, split the construction season and the capacity of companies, which is limited, into two parts. Let's say the spring part where one part of those roads is fixed, and then from summer to autumn, the other part can be repaired. This will reduce the columns, improve the quality of work, because companies will not be able to fix everything at once under such pressure. I therefore ask you to support my accompanying resolution on the state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u77	I thank Mr Klašek and the last one entered into the general debate by Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u78	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, let me come forward here in support of my amendment, which concerns the regions affected by the decline in mining and heavy industry and which, I must say, almost completely ignores this state budget. These regions are in the Czech Republic at the last places in employment, they have poor social structure and education. They have one of the lowest ages of survival. On the contrary, they face the greatest criminality and the greatest social uncertainties. If we want to change this, we must proceed to a comprehensive reconstruction of the regions. On the other hand, there are already numbers on the table that literally remain reasonable. Although these regions have the lowest age of survival, the Ústí Region, for example, is among those regions that receive the least money per capita in health care. That's completely incomprehensible to me. It should be exactly the opposite. If we have the highest disease in the region in the Czech Republic, health care should be carried out there logically the most money. I am sorry that the Minister of Health is not present here, who is in office for about five days, even with the weekend, and when discussing a law as important as the state budget, he did not even bother to come to the House. He's probably got another job, doing his medical business somewhere. So what can help these regions to stand in? For example, in improving transport accessibility so that you can reach the neighboring city. I very much like the way they deal with the situation in neighbouring Germany. Note that around each small village there are two, three, four small companies, factories that give work to people from the village and the surrounding area. Of course, the German Government also supports this. This is the way to bring prosperity to the affected regions. These are not the megaloman industrial zones, whose support we see today in the budget of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and others, in which it is of course difficult to get employees. Why is this type of support not remembered in the budget? Why are transport constructions to these regions not a priority in the budget? Why isn't it in the government's budget priorities? We can really only argue about that, and it's obvious, and as one of my previous speakers here said, that what's in the budget is a real priority. The rest are just phrases and nothing else. Another problem facing the regions, where there is a decline in mining and the decline in heavy industry, is, of course, excluded localities. The excluded sites are solved at the expense of the richer regions, from which you are affected or socially weak are moving, and unfortunately they are moving to regions that are affected by the mining and downturn of the heavy industry. Of course, this has no easy solution. I'm fully aware of that here. It's been handled unsuccessfully for decades, and it's been solved without results. What about it? Of course, it is to offer help to those in need and to those who show the slightest interest in changing their lives. Allow children to go to schools outside excluded localities, high schools for example, boarding schools, so that the negative impact of the environment is as small as possible on them. [[13.00 hours]] On the other hand, it must be said that even in excluded localities the laws of the Czech Republic apply, so we cannot tolerate their violations. And that there's a shortage of policemen in the county? That's just how it has to be dealt with. And the government has to deal with it. In the Ústí Region, for example. the population of excluded localities has increased significantly. Many places, including Prague, have solved the problem, but so, please, let them face it and set up permanent police services with ten police officers at the most critical locations. And it's a utopia? Why? You won't even know it in the state budget. Plus, when I see what kind of, excuse me, stupid things are being spent so many times, this is what I consider effective and quick help. And what's the state budget money for? To pay benefits without further motivation to work or to support a agro complex or subsidies for some Tea Nests. What needs to be done to successfully change these affected regions? This is especially the courage to admit that the future of these regions is no longer steam machines and coal mining. It's almost over, and we need to find another way for these regions to make a living. The way they did -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u79	I'm very sorry, Mr. Ambassador. 13 o'clock has passed. If you have a short donation, I'll let you finish. In case you want to continue longer, I'll interrupt you and we'll continue at 14.30 hours. It's up to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u80	About three, four minutes, okay? [[I agree with the President.]] I'll set it up. What needs to be done in order for the affected regions to undergo such a successful change, as the regions in other countries have experienced? It is courage to admit that the future of these regions is not steam machines and it is not brown coal mining. As the regions in Germany did, the regions of the Ruhr and the Rhine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u81	I'm very sorry. I'm going to ask for some peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u82	These regions have undergone significant renewals, of course with the help of the government, and today they are regions where people like to live, where they like to go and where young people do not run. We need to find strength and courage for something like this, and in the Rhine and the Ruhr, for example, we need to inspire ourselves. It's clear that the county can't handle it alone, the government must support it. However, I think that over the decades, the county of Ústecký, Moravian-Silesian and others, we have something to return to these regions. And if there is a similar intention, I believe it will be supported at the government level. If the Ústecký or Moravian-Silesian region needs anything, it's a recovery plan. I'm not afraid to say that's Marshallův's postwar recovery plan. Unfortunately, the government missed a period of abundance and did not come up with any comprehensive recovery plan. I am trying to help at least a small amount in my amendment. The government has put forward a budget where the deficit is about 60 billion. Crowns. This deficit is mostly spent on increasing civil servants' salaries, unfortunately not on restoring the regions affected by mining. In my amendment, I increased the amount to eliminate the damage caused by mining activities by 100 miles. Crowns. It is a negligible item for the state budget, a significant and welcome amount for the mining of the troubled regions. I would like to ask all of you who are drowning and lighting coal from the affected regions to support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u83	I thank Mr Kučer. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. If there is no such person, I am done with the debate. I'm interrupting the House meeting for lunch break by 2:30 p.m. Please note that the Organizing Committee will meet at 1:10 p.m. And Members of the Social Democracy Club are taking pictures in the State Acts now. Enjoy your lunch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 14.30 p.m. and we will continue our discussion. Before we proceed with the item under discussion, allow me to load an apology - Minister Marksová withdraws her apology from December 7th from 13.30 to 16.30. Mr Radim Fiala apologises between 14.30 and the end of the day for health reasons; Vice-President Bartošek apologizes for this afternoon's meeting between 14.30 and 16.00 for working reasons; and Mrs Benešová apologises from 14.30 to the end of today's meeting for working reasons. That was an apology. At this point, we are in point 183 and this is the Government's draft law on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2017, the House's press 921, the third reading. Mr Václav Votava, Member of the Committee on Budgets, has already taken the position of Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš and rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets. Before lunch, we interrupted negotiations after the end of the debate, and I am now asking the appellant if he is interested in the final word. Mr. Secretary, the final word. He's not interested. Neither does the rapporteur. We will proceed to the vote on the amendments. I will ask the rapporteur to lecture on individual amendments... I'm sorry. Okay, so, rapporteur, I'm gonna ask you to take a seat at the rapporteur's desk. President of ODS Petr Fiala. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the Government, dear colleagues, before the final vote, I would like to sum up our reservations on this submitted budget and explain why we will vote as we will vote. [[It's busy in the hall.]] The state budget is or is to be the top performance of the government and the Minister of Finance. It's the materialization of the vision. It is the materialization of the country's development concept. It's proof of the government's ability or inability to bring its promises into reality. And the state budget presented, as we have it here for 2017, is an expression of government cluelessness. The government's lack of guidance in the face of economic growth and its own responsibilities, how to deal with such growth. Of course, this poor budget, from our point of view, cannot sink the state at a time of economic growth, that is good, but it can eat through this growth and actually sort of book it. And let us all remember that the government has rarely had such favorable economic circumstances in history. But the government isn't helping it grow, it's holding it back with its steps. The economy is going well, so just stretch out your hand and collect the fruit. But when the fruit is collected, then it is necessary to decide where and how we invest the resources we have. Sources the government has obtained from businessmen, entrepreneurs, active employees, people who work, people who pay taxes. And the first one -- stretch out your hand and collect money -- that's just the first step. Anyone can do that, and so can the Minister of Finance, Babiš. Collect the fruits that others have grown. Okay. What's next? The Minister and the entire government are giving us a budget of missed opportunity here. This is a budget that is completely indifferent to the possibilities that the Czech Republic has today. Rarely in the last 25 years, the government has had favourable conditions to invest in the services of the state. There has almost never been such a good opportunity for us to invest without pressure and reason. And what's the reality? Well, the reality is, the government probably has no idea what her priorities are. Or at least you can't tell from this budget. One thing the Prime Minister says, but what the Prime Minister says doesn't really fit the structure of the budget. Something else the finance minister says, but I don't know how any priorities are reflected in this budget. Otherwise, the Minister of Finance is undoubtedly a master of political marketing, but when I look at the budget and its approach to the budget, the budget is so average and without the idea that even the political marketing master isn't trying to sell it specifically. On matters that are not under the authority of Minister Babiš, he hangs billboards, but on the budget, which is his main task, which is his task of the year, he cannot say what will improve the service of the state. Which creates better conditions for business. How much bureaucracy are we gonna cut? How many better medical facilities we'll have. What will be more in a year. What will be better in our education. And unfortunately, we will not see such a promise to explain priorities from the Prime Minister. I therefore warn the Citizen Democratic Party about this budget of missed opportunities. In front of the budget of irresponsible indifference. And I will say this very directly, warning of the indifference of this government to what better service this state will offer its citizens at a time of such economic boom as it has not been before. And answer for yourself the question of what will remain in your mind, what this government has done in three or four years. Let us try to imagine that when economic growth, for example, wears off. What's left in your head? What impulse was the government able to invent and give the country at a time of extraordinary economic growth, at a time of lowest unemployment? What did this government bring? I'm not human, and some of you know me who couldn't admit to the government that she's done something. But I don't think we're gonna remember any of this as breakthroughs, as such, which are consistent with today's period of extraordinary growth and extremely favourable circumstances. That is why I say that this government does not have the courage to at least try to offer a vision. And what he's presenting here is a budget wasted opportunity. And what exactly does the draft budget tell us about this government? Firstly, the government is budget-incompetent. And her incompetence is that she makes a lot of mistakes in drawing up the budget. This year, she planned a budget deficit, despite our warning, of 70 billion. Crowns. But the result will be significantly lower, especially thanks to the government's inability to invest. Deficit will be lower, maybe none. He's planning 60 billion for next year. Crowns. Well, let's see what the outcome is. [[14.40 hours]] The draft budget, which I also consider to be remarkable, does not correspond to the declarations of the Minister of Finance on how much additional control reports or electronic sales records are to be collected due to restrictive measures. While in this year, when neither of the measures was reflected in the implementation of the budget, as the Ministry of Finance itself admits, tax revenues have increased by approximately CZK 41 billion, for 2017 an increase in tax revenues of only CZK 26,7 billion is expected with similar growth in the economy. So not only do you look inside the budget, it's not only that the electronic sales log and the control report aren't going to pick up any more, but revenue growth is going to be slower than this year. And when I look at these data in the state budget, and from this point of view, I consider advertising on the electronic record of sales that goes on TV, I have to say that it is a misleading advertising because the figures that the Ministry of Finance has put into the budget itself are talking about something completely different. When I said that the government is not budgetaryly competent, the second thing that this draft budget shows us is that the government does not have a vision. Perhaps, to be fair, one vision in that budget is undoubtedly embodied, and this is an effort to create a large state that is increasingly redistributing, which employs more and more people and which increasingly controls citizens. This question can, in turn, be demonstrated by looking at the budget at figures. The combined tax quota, or ratio of money that the state will collect from citizens and companies, will grow again to gross domestic product. It will reach 34.3 % next year against 33.1 % in 2012. The number of civil servants will increase by 7,600 people. It will be 31,000 new civil servants since the start of this government. And ladies and gentlemen, these are not just teachers, soldiers, police officers, as is often argued, but in many cases they are officials. Look only at annual increases - plus 600 Ministry of Finance, plus 750 Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, plus 163 Ministry of Industry and Trade. In doing so, the state says that it does everything in its power to control citizens more easily, especially entrepreneurs, invents new tools, EETs, control reports, property returns, etc. etc., and yet for this easier control, in quotation marks easier control, needs more and more civil servants. But those employees are worth something. Only next year will it cost us an extra 26 billion crowns. If I were to learn something from the ANO movement, perhaps I could now use the favourite method of the ANO movement for that amount of CZK 26 billion, and I would say immediately: for CZK 26 billion we could build more than 50 kilometers of motorways a year, we could increase pensions by CZK 700 a month, we could build 2 600 new kindergartens. And we're not going to do any of that, we're going to give this money to other and other civil servants, among whom the number of officials is growing. Bohuslav Sobotka and Andrej Babiš probably said that for the future of the Czech Republic the place of motorways, kindergartens, support for seniors will be better if the state employs more people. It is, of course, their legitimate view of the future, I do not question it, but it is a view of the future, of the prosperity of the Czech Republic, which the Civil Democratic Party does not share and does not want to share. Instead of simplifying the administration, the government has loosened their hands, given them more space to have more time for citizens, so their numbers increase senselessly. The state is rapidly swelling, the state is expanding, but citizens are undoubtedly not feeling any improvement in the service of the state. I was talking about the budget showing a government that is budget-incompetent, a government that doesn't have a vision, and thirdly, the budget also shows us that the government doesn't respect citizens. Thanks to the work of entrepreneurs, businessmen, active employees and their families, the Czech Republic thrives. The economy is growing, unemployment is falling. Thanks to this, the state is raising more and more money on taxes and social security. If citizens give money to the state, they also expect, and rightly expect, that they will receive more and better services from it, that these services will be at least better. And they rightly expect, and I am not the first speaker to talk about it here today, that the state will invest more in transport infrastructure, that new technologies will be introduced to make it easier for citizens to communicate with the authorities, that the state will invest in education, research, innovation, etc. etc. Citizens expect us to use economic growth to reduce the tax burden on labour that we have among the highest among OECD countries. The cost of work, as you know, includes the social security contributions that we propose to reduce in the long term. As a result, higher wages and even better economic growth would be. We can also abolish unnecessary and administratively complex taxes, simplify people's lives, reduce administration to make them live better. This is what the citizens expect. This is what citizens expect during the economic boom, at a time when our country is doing well. But they do not meet with understanding with the current government, because the government does not respect those active and hardworking people who have the fruit and can distribute funds. Let us remember again one of the most painful places in this budget, and these are investments. The investment is not too different from how much investment has been made in recent years, how much this government has spent on investment. And who would expect the state to use economic growth and higher income to invest better in transport infrastructure, for example, is wrong and will find no such thing in the budget. 113 billion investments 2012, 103, or less than 104 billion, is the plan for 2017. So less. And the arguments about the unpreparedness of the buildings, so they are now purely on the shoulders of this government, because already at the beginning of 2013 the then Minister of Transport Zbyněk Stanjura increased by several billion investments in the preparation of the buildings. And if this government hasn't made progress in three years, it's her fault. And that was just an example of investment. Investment in transport. When I look at investment in research, development and innovation, they reach 0.83% next year compared to GDP, but in 2013 it was almost 1% - 0.97 % so that someone wouldn't catch my word. And let me remind you that this government has a Vice-President of the Government for Research, that the number of officials who are involved in research at the Office of the Government is growing, but supporting research in the budget, what comes to our scientists and researchers, this support for research is not enough. The current period is also beneficial for investments at extremely low interest rates. And that so-called crowding effect, when government investment makes private investment more expensive, it doesn't really exist. Negative interest rates directly encourage investment. The government doesn't do that. The government sleeps on investment, it doesn't. Economic growth is being squandered and the state's function will not be improved. When I criticize, I have to say what we would do, and I say it too. The Civil Democratic Party has a clear idea of what the next year's budget should look like. We have a clear vision of how we would use current economic growth for further development of the Czech Republic. And we can have this vision, among other things, because as a traditional political party, we have a political agenda. A program that is created not by hired experts on political marketing, but based on experience and practice. We communicate with various groups of citizens from entrepreneurs, employees, teachers, school directors, people who work in the social sphere. We talk to young people, talk to seniors and talk to them about the future of the Czech Republic, which is why we also know what this country should look like and how it should work. Our program is based on practice and how we want to change our country for the better. Our programme would have been reflected in the budget if we had drawn it up, but no such programme can be found in the budget drawn up by Sobotkův's government. [[14.50 hours]] Well, there's no wonder. The program of the ANO movement is Andrej Babiš, there is no need to look for any program. I would not suspect social democracy as a traditional party from the absence of the programme, but its programme does not go towards prosperity at all, it does not aim to improve the lives of the people of this country. It's a program that's based only on interest in the present. Social democracy, and this is seen in this budget, is only interested in who more money is taken to give it to others. Of course, part of it must remain at home for tens of thousands of new civil servants. So it can be concluded from this budget that the vision of the Czech Social Democratic Party is a big, fat and clumsy state that doesn't serve people, but from which everyone sometimes falls some alms without having to actively do something. And the vision of social democracy is certainly not a state for active citizens. We, the Civil Democratic Party, also want to become a strong but strong state in actions, not a strong state in the number of officials. A state that is respected abroad, but that is not divided in government. A state that is modern and where citizens are not harassed by unnecessary bureaucracy. The state that invests, invests in transport infrastructure, invests in security, invests in education, invests in research and innovation. A state that also creates simple conditions for business. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, like last year, we tabled a number of amendments to the state budget, which, even if we do not draw up the budget, can improve it and which reflect our programme and our vision into the budget. Just like last year, we pointed to a specific 30 billion. crowns that we consider to be economically spent, which we think could be saved. The best solution for us would be to leave these 30 billion. CZK to people, to leave this money to people, but unfortunately that is no longer possible at this state budget stage. If we can't, let's get them somewhere else. We believe that there is little money in some areas, as proposed by the budget. These are e.g. investment in defence or investment in education, specifically in regional education. My colleagues and colleagues have given you ample reason why. That's where we propose to add, and that's what we think would be right. I believe that many of you view things as we do, and that is why you will support our specific proposals. In conclusion, however, let me say that it is sad that we are meeting here over the approval of the deficit budget at a time of economic growth, that we are meeting over the budget of missed opportunities, that there is a budget here without a vision, that there is a budget here that does not think about the future of the Czech Republic. It is a budget which, for these reasons, cannot have the support of Members of the Civil Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u86	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now, with priority rights, Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u87	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, colleagues, I didn't even want to get off because I'm on antibiotics, I have the flu, but President Fiala has motivated me, and he has also called on me to sell little of our coalition government's achievements, so I will try to do that now. In any case, I think our coalition government will be successful already in that it will probably be the second government to complete the mandate. And secondly, the fact that, at least I hope he doesn't have any corruption scandal, and also that he's going to have the best budget in our country's history. Absolutely the best. The last highest surplus was in 1994, Mr. Kočárník. And the fact that for the first time in our country's history, we have taken on real tax collection and that we have introduced things that have never been here, like a tax cobra. Control report - I don't understand why colleague Fiala says it doesn't work. We're 13 billion. VAT extra collected, we have 60 billion as of 30 November. taxes in addition to public budgets. We collect extra taxes and profit from it the regions, they cut us 3.7 billion this year. VAT. And, of course, next year, they're going to cut off our VAT because the ERU is going to 21.4 percent, so they're going to get 2.1 billion. at the expense of the state budget. And let's not forget the EET. Thanks to the VAT reduction, pubs, restaurants and hotels will receive 2.8 billion. VAT at the expense of our budget. So next year, the tax increase is 45.3 billion. I don't understand what the President is really talking about. In tax revenues for next year, the impact of control reports is plus 8.2 billion. Speaking of EETs, we only picked 260 miles on the pinned beer I designed. in taxes. According to the hectolitres, we should have collected 2.6 billion. That's two specific numbers. And the first two waves, according to our analysis, cost us about 12 to 13 billion tax evasion each year. So the budget, yes, there are budgets, and then there's implementation. And what has a major influence on it, of course, is European money. When we boarded, 90 billion were at risk. failure to draw European funds. 90 billion! We did not even have the Civil Service Act, which de facto threatened the drawing of European funds, and eventually we managed to reduce it to about 22, and it was already 10 lost in the past. And that's why we had this gigantic increase in investment in 2015 - 175.6 billion, an increase of 64 billion year on year. I really don't know what you're... I feel that Mr Fiala, through Madam President, is talking completely about another economy. And if you're criticizing the deficit today, next year will be completely different. We're gonna get 69 billion out of Europe. less. And if I look at... You're talking about growth, but the growth of 2015, it was our growth, this government, that released the consumption that has drawn up the European funds, and that's why we had to grow 4.5 percent in 2015. But in 2016, we're only going to grow 2.7, and next year we're going to have 2.4. So next year we have 2.4, we have a deficit minus 60, and that's just a suggestion. And I'm convinced that the performance will be much better. But can we look at 2006, when Minister Fat was there and there was a growth of 6.6% - and how much was the balance? No 97.6. And in 2007, Mr. Tlustý and Mr. Kalousek, the growth was 5.5 percent, and the deficit was what? 6.4. So it would be good if you could remember how it was, and you could really compare these numbers. But most importantly, by the end of the year, we're going to be 40 billion. less government debt than we started, our government. So if President Fiala, through Madam President, speaks that we do not have a vision - well, we have a clear vision! We want to invest, we want to increase pensions and salaries. Yes, we have low pensions, we have low salaries, we need to invest. There are no people, we need to motivate people to work, not to take doses. We also need to free up the labour market. So I don't know what we're talking about. I made it clear that there is no investment for which there is no money. [[15.00 hours]] Why did we have to make an exception to the EIA for key buildings? The exceptions, or the EIA permits, were 10 to 15 years old. Why wasn't it invested then? Why didn't you build those motorways into the European Union and into the creation of regions? We could have had it by now if we had the vision. If we were to go to Germany for the internship, maybe ask how the market economy is being built. So I really don't know what we're talking about. We work. I think the government is very successful, it has clear results. And if we're talking about a lot of those officials. Well, we need them. We need those teachers. Next year, it's 7 637 extra functional seats. We need 2 796 seats in regional education. They're not teachers. We need soldiers. Of course, we need 200 seats for the Financial and Customs Administration. So these aren't any officers who sit locked up in offices, but who work and who mainly collect taxes. Prague is no longer a tax haven where financial control goes once every 200 years. Financial administration has authority again. It's not for fun anymore. So I think about investment - why were there such investments for you? Well, because there was this Řebíček who needed to build those highways to build his company that he parked on some friends. And how long does it take to prepare for such a construction? And who came here with the land purchase bill so we could even buy out? Who's been dealing with Havránková for 19 years, one plot? So please, it would be good if we actually spoke to the point. The numbers are clear. The budget, of course, is deficit. It's a compromise. I am convinced that the budget will work and, above all, we have not strangled the economy. We were giving people back the money you took from them in the past. And again, we're reducing taxes. We are lowering taxes because we have clearly said that we will not raise taxes, that we will collect taxes. And we pay those taxes back to people. So I think it's obvious. The numbers are clear. And I understand that in any case, you have to criticize that the deficit was some kind of this year. But if anyone ever planned at a company - everywhere is planned with some expectation of some possibility of a problem. Some kind of global problem. We live in a global economy. So we're planning, and the bottom line is the result. And the result, I think, especially this year, will be great and I believe that next year will be very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u88	Thank you, Minister. Now, please, to Mr Kučera's microphone with an application for a debate, because the Minister has reopened the debate with his speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u89	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to thank Minister Andrej Babiš for opening the debate and allowing us all to comment on his speech. So, of course, there's room for the other Members to respond to the demagoguery that the Minister of Finance has just shown here. Dear Minister of Finance, your budget, I would call your budget planning a fiasco. Planning the budget, which is at a time when this year's surplus is expected, to plan the deficit, which means minus 60 billion, is simply a fiasco. At least that's how I consider it in the community where I'm chairman of the Financial Committee. Because something similar happened to us. What happened to us is that we are our budget because we were unable to invest the investments we had planned - we ended up with a relatively large surplus. However, unlike you, Minister Babiš, we really regard this as a failure in our community. Because we had planned investments, we couldn't realize them, and we had money left in our account. It's definitely not our success, it's our failure. And I think a similar look should be on yours. Because you are, if you stay in surplus - just because you weren't able to invest the money you had planned. Well, for next year, you're telling us there's going to be another minus 60 billion. Crowns. I would like to see how you would treat the financial director at your holding if, at a time when the company is growing, when market success, when the market really requires your company's products, he came up with the idea that next year's budget will be losing. And you would ask him why? We'll invest more. And he would say no, we'll hire more employees to control our products, if they're right. If the benefit is really effective. We're not putting that money into investment, Mr. Owner. We'll put the money in check, increase the number of employees. I think it would probably be the last thing that the CFO would say in his office. Because he'd be flying from your firm for about an hour. You mentioned here, Minister Babiš, the EIA, which blocked and de facto paralyzed the construction of transport structures, and not only of course them, in the Czech Republic. I mean, it was the ministers of your government, Minister Babiš, your government, who proposed the EIA Act, the Environmental Act, and they completely incompetently discussed its conditions in Brussels. It was the Minister, if you didn't remember, it was Minister Brabec and Minister Took, who didn't respond. They're both, I believe, members of the YES movement. So if anyone is responsible for the ten exceptions, then it's the YES movement and your ministers, Minister Babiš. So this is just a little bit of a reference to how we're going to do this whole demagogue thing that you came up with here so we can put it in some kind of factual plane. Of course, you mentioned that people don't want to work, that they're not motivated. Of course. Of course they're not motivated. Because you're constantly increasing welfare. Please see how social welfare grows. We're down to unemployment, we're down to unemployment like this. And that's how social welfare grows. Well, please, we don't meet at all. If unemployment goes down, social welfare can't grow! That's clearly something I can't agree with. The budget is non-motivating, and we can see it on the edges that I was talking about today. This means on those regions that are most affected within the Czech Republic. This means in the Ústí Region and Moravian-Silesian Region. In what way does the budget respond to a real restoration in these regions, so that there are no mere cosmetic changes? Well, he doesn't react at all. On the contrary, the budget prepared by the Finance Minister Andrej Babiš even takes more money from these regions. The coal, which is mined in those regions - so of course, it is quite right to raise the remuneration from the acquired mineral, the mining companies are paying more correctly. We can agree with that. But where does the money end up? Well, it doesn't end up in that county. They don't end up in that county. It ends in the state budget of Andrej Babiš, who uses them for salaries in the state administration and nowhere else. The money doesn't go back to the county. I was here last year when the upper law was being discussed, proposing a change. The budget allocation was that the money would go to the municipalities and go to the state budget. I suggested that the regions be included. Yes, the budget might lose a few tens of millions, but it certainly wouldn't. And what did the government coalition do? The government coalition rejected this amendment. That means, she said no, we don't put the money in the county, we don't want people in that county, where there's the highest unemployment, where there's the highest disease where social problems are solved, so we don't want them to have more money. And that's what Andrej Babiš agreed to. And I'm asking, how is that possible? How is it that we're hearing a bunch of demagogy here about how we're doing really well, and on the other hand, there are regions that are obviously suffering? We're even taking the money away from them. [[15.10 hours]] And I don't see anything in this budget but that they're gonna put money in welfare benefits, and we're just gonna make these people sit on that couch longer than they're supposed to. Today there are generations who have not seen their own parents work! Because thanks to the social benefits that Andrej Babiš and social democracy are introducing here, they have no reason! They have no reason to get off the couch and go somewhere to work. These are things I absolutely miss in the budget of Andrej Babiš. We've heard a lot of praise here. I think that budget deserves more criticism. And I believe that anyone who looks at that budget will see that we eat the money, not that we invest it in the future. And this browsing budget, and the Finance Minister Andrej Babiš is responsible for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u90	I beg you, Mr Kořenko, to make a point of fact. I'll ask my colleagues not to shout, sit in their seats if possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u91	Thank you. I will only ask my previous speaker, by your means, Madam President, to tell me specifically which benefits have been increased. Because I'm not aware that any of the doses have been increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u92	Thank you. I'm registering three factual points at the moment. Mr Fiedler's microphone, then Mr Ondráček, and then Mr Adamec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u93	I did not want to speak too much on this subject, unfortunately the Minister opened the debate, so the debate started. [[Let's hear it in the O.R., let's hear it.]] But I have to respond to what Mr Kučera said earlier. I suppose you know I haven't always been on the mountain for the things that this government has put forward, but let's take a real look at these things. If it has been said that there is a generation that hasn't seen her parents all the time, my whole life working, I dare say, Mr. Ambassador, that this is not a period of three years for this government, but that is a period of a generation when you too were in government! Let's look at things really! You know I'm not an admirer of this government, but I have a real point of view. They've been with the government for three years, but those long generations that haven't seen their parents work, they've been with your governments! You guys put it down! Don't be mad at me, Mr. Ambassador!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u94	Thank you and please address your colleagues through me. Thank you. Please refer to Mr Ondráček's microphone with a factual remark. Mr Adamec will be ready, then Mr Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u95	Thank you, Madam President. I'll basically follow up on what my previous speaker said through you. Mr. Kučera, who put these people on the couch? It was the governments you were involved in. And it doesn't matter if page TOP 09 was or wasn't then. You quickly transformed from one side to the other. You're defectors from one to the other. It's just that you've been involved in this company or this group of people being here, and now you're here to say something. Just remember to step out and say it's the Communists' fault! Because for us, the sustenance was criminal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u96	Thank you. I will ask Mr. Adamec's microphone with a factual remark. Mr Stanjura will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u97	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Minister, colleagues, I see that the situation has gotten a little heated, as it has always been before the final vote, in the House. I'm not gonna tease the clashes here, I'm more interested in the idea of the Minister of Finance. And I will admit that I had no idea - and if I have heard correctly that our President Fiala here was talking about increasing the number of civil servants in state apparatuses, and the Minister here was talking about increasing the number of teachers. So I didn't know if that was true, if there was an equal in between, that the teacher was a clerk. So I'd like to explain, please, the idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u98	Thank you. Mr. Stanjura's microphone, please. Mr Hájek will be ready. All factual points. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u99	So, in the nostalgic memory of communism's times, even those who call themselves the right-wing movement are applauding. Well, that's sad. It's not even funny, it's really weepy. If you miss the sustenance and the rest of communism, you can clap and you can bring it back with them. But that's not why I applied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u100	I ask the House for peace!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u101	Those who have nothing to say about the budget like to laugh. So if they come to the budget to say something, or to keep quiet when they have nothing left to say, because they haven't even read it. Now they're making dudes in a bunch and yelling at speakers. But it hasn't been here since 1992 that the right-wing government has ruled, and now the YES movement has been here for three years. You're kind of forgetting how long the Social Democrats ruled. And you're forgetting what we came up with in the area of social welfare abuse, and with it all, we hit the wall on the left! We wanted to execute in socially abused and benefits - not possible, we are against! We wanted to limit the extra payments to living thousands of crowns per bed/month - not possible! When we've introduced at least the community will say - no, it's not possible! Left-wing ministers are pushing for it. You're prepping them, you people! You guys are looking for votes! We don't, we say we want them out of the system. So what are you guys blaming us for? You grow them because you think you're gonna buy votes. We don't! And if you're serious about fighting those who abuse welfare, then support one of our proposals! For example, in execution, for example, to have property tests, for example, to make the housing supplement much lower. Oh, no, you're against it! And then you're smart here and you come in, but even in right-wing governments, social benefits have been abused! Well, that's true. But you never supported our proposals so that it wouldn't be. So when you support them, then you can criticize. But it's just convenient for you, these voters.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u102	Thank you. I beg you, Mr Hájek, to make a point of fact. Mr. Mr. Zlatuška will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u103	Madam President, ministers, colleagues, colleagues, I would like to thank my colleague Kučer for reminding me of my grandfather. Every time he saw Husák on TV, he raised his hands and said, "Oh, my God, you hear that! So thank you. On the other hand, we often hear our education going down here. A colleague of Kučera is also a graduate of the Mining College. And he's right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u104	Thank you. I'm just reminding you to really turn to your colleagues through me. Thank you and please to the microphone of Mr. Mr. Zlatuška. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u105	Madam President, I hate to hold up, but my colleague Stanjura has raised an old emotion, an old memory, by criticizing this applause. When I once, as dean of the newly founded Faculty of Informatics, reproached Václav Klaus for converting funds into operational means, not into investments, and asked him why he was doing it, he insisted that he didn't know why he was doing it, that it was probably a parameter that he had inherited from previous governments, that is, from communism. When I asked him how he could make excuses like the then ODS chairman and the previous finance minister, that he followed such a parameter, he looked at me and said that if they gave us more investment, we would complain in October that we had nothing to drown for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u106	Thank you. And now with the priority right of Secretary Marksová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u107	Thank you for the floor. Members of Parliament, this government has saved 2.5 billion for the duration of its operation at doses in material distress. Crowns. That's a definite number. So I don't know where the information comes from that social benefits may be rising. Two and a half billion crowns is not a small number! [[He speaks very strongly.]] And I'd like to remind you that the time when the poverty business began incredibly, when the troubled hostels started to develop and high, senselessly high housing fees were paid, so the time was under ODS and TOP 09! On the contrary, this government came and one of the first things it did was to modify the law on material distress. And that's where the hotel standards were adjusted, and it's been adjusted so that the monstrous money stopped paying off. It's a clearly documented number. So anyone who can read, who is elementaryly literate, can read it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u108	Thank you. Please give a factual remark to Mr Stanjur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u109	How good it is that when ministers are in the House. The debate is better. Perhaps you, Madam Secretary, could answer the questions I was giving to your empty chair here this morning. And I'm in. And I was just talking about social benefits in the field of aid in material distress. There are amendments approved by the Committee on Budgets, most government Members, which significantly reduce - and I say that this is a good thing - significantly reduce the government's draft budget. Let me ask you, are you in favour? And if you're up for it, how could you push such a ridiculously high number into that draft budget? There were three questions. I think you know them. And I'd like to ask for an answer. And of course we can argue about the numbers. But not one of the proposals I was talking about, not one of those proposals that we have repeatedly tabled, you, as Social Democrats, did not support, on the contrary, you were strongly opposed. So you didn't do anything to get those who abuse the social system out of the system and give the money they saved to those who really need the social assistance. And that is the key responsibility that we have unfortunately failed to fulfil under this government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u110	Thank you. I'll have the Prime Minister's priority right, please. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u111	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to speak either, but since the debate has already opened up and we are going back to these things, let me also comment on some of the claims that have been made here as if they were true, although we all know that this is nonsense, that it is a lie and that it is only a demagogy, that it is just an attempt to shout it out on television, to convince people that something is happening here that is not really true. And those things have been too much, too much, so that I can't react. I just want to remind you that this is our government's third budget. Third budget. The debate is still the same. They always sign up to the opposition, say that we're saving little, that there's too much deficits, that there's no investment money in that budget, and that the state isn't actually going to work, and that we're going from ten to five. Third budget in a row. So please, let's see what the result is. Let's look outside, outside this Chamber of Deputies, what the state of the Czech Republic is. What's the reality? Where did the government's budget policy lead in three years? What kind of unemployment do we have? What is unemployment in the Czech Republic? We have the lowest unemployment rate in the European Union. Was it ever the ODS? Or under TOP 09? We have 3.8 per cent according to Eurostat statistics. And tell me that's not true! 3.8 percent. We have lower unemployment than Germany. And tell me that's not true! Germany, Austria, Hungary, Poland - all these countries in the region have higher unemployment than the Czech Republic. We have the lowest unemployment rate in the European Union. That's a great number. The economy is growing. This year's economic growth is estimated to be around 2,5 percent. The state's tax revenue is growing. Now I've watched, we've had record, since 2005 the best surplus of foreign trade in this country we've had. This country is economically and politically stable. There's investment coming. Crime rate's dropping. Crime in the Czech Republic has been declining for several years. They're raising average wages in our country. At last, average wages are rising. Fortunately, for several years in a row, real wages have been growing in our country. This means that real household incomes are increasing. This is the result of a three-year budgetary policy. You're trying to convince the public here because in this one, Of course, the Chamber of Deputies will not believe you from the government coalition, but are you trying to convince the public that our budgetary policy is unsuccessful or that it does not have results? Look at how the quality of the state's operation has improved. I just reject what's happening here every time over and over again. One budget. Second budget. Third budget. Same phrases. Same memory loss. Especially the same memory loss for those who criticize us here over and over again. And when we remind you of what happened behind you, you say, "You keep blaming it on the past, don't talk about the past, let's talk about what's ahead." That means you can lie here, and you want us to keep quiet about what's on your conscience, and what were your real results? This isn't an open debate. Let's have an open debate here. Let us talk about who had the results, what results the right had, what budget deficits you had, what unemployment you had, how you drew European funds. Compare it to what the real results of the Czech Republic are today. It's really... This is what pissed me off, especially when I hear about getting money out of the European Union. I think my colleagues in the government will confirm that. You were all sitting here in the Chamber of Deputies. You know what we had to do at the beginning of the parliamentary term to be able to finish the money at all. Under Nečasův' government, the use of European funds for individual operational programmes, or even across, has been repeatedly suspended. Your government was unable to solve the real problems that existed here. It had to be us. It was waiting for us. The fact that we spent the money, that 93,94 percent of the money available in the last financial perspective was spent, that didn't happen alone, it wasn't an automatic thing. This required a very intense commitment of the entire government. It required the support of this House. And the fact that we had to pass the EIA Act, the fact that we had to pass the Service Act, it was necessary for us not to stop drawing European funds at all. Blame this government for perhaps being responsible for what the EIA law looks like... For God's sake, these are things that are harmonised throughout the European Union! You guys couldn't do it. It must have waited for us. And we couldn't do anything but solve it, because otherwise we wouldn't have exhausted 94 percent of the allocation. And by draining the allocation, last year's growth was 4.5 percent, thanks to the fact that we were able to spend European money. And that also makes the budget surplus this year, because the money is coming this year. This has also helped the budgetary balance, which is this year. There's been a lot of talk about social benefits. It's been here before in the previous performances, but now, again, some of the previous speakers have fallen to it, and that's really very cheap. It is, of course, a call to the lowest of the soil, to the idea that the government here increases social benefits, that we increase the abuse of social benefits. Reality is exactly reversed. 2012 - your brilliant social work engineer Drábek. Well, whose government was Mr. Drábek the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs in? I think it would be good for ODS and TOP 09 to sign up proudly. It was your government where Mr. Drábek was. 2012 - transferred the benefits of material distress from the municipalities to the employment offices. Until then, the municipalities were doing it, and he transferred it to the labor authorities. Well, yeah, but the number of officials who were supposed to take care of it has decreased by 1,600 people less since 2012, than in the municipalities until then. How do you think, colleagues, that from 2012 onwards, the control of these social benefits seemed to look like? Well, there wasn't one. There was none, because the officials took care of one thing - that information systems would not fall down, because Mr Drábek, of course, began experimenting with information systems. You know how it was that the transition wasn't prepared at all, that people wrote tables in pencils, filled out the forms with pencils. This was the work of engineer Drábek in the leadership of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. That was your reform. And it was a flawed reform, transferring the benefits of material distress to the labor authorities. Labor authorities aren't supposed to do this at all. Labour authorities are primarily supposed to take care of active employment policy. But you did this reform and you didn't put people on it. And today you say and yell that social benefits are being abused. They're not because we found these people. We strengthened the labour authorities, it was not an easy thing at all, but two years ago, social benefits began to be controlled again, those paid by the labour authorities, and it has its results. [[15.30 hours]] What Secretary Marksová said here, the benefits of material distress. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the benefits for those who are at the bottom. Those who are completely at the bottom receive benefits of material distress. The budget that we are discussing and approving here, I'm sure you all know what it costs - 1.3 bill, of which 10 billion. CZK goes together to all benefits of material emergency: housing supplement, existential minimum, i.e. benefits for people who are actually at the bottom and have actually no other option of income. 10 billion. The crown of 1.3 beats. expenditure on the state budget next year. Even so, we've saved nearly 2.5 billion on these doses of material distress over the last two years. CZK checks, by controlling people who receive benefits, by not automatically admitting to everyone that the economic situation has improved and, above all, 200,000 people have found work. If I'm proud of anything that this government has done, that in three years, 200,000 people have found jobs in the economy, that they've been given a chance, that the economic environment has improved, that companies have started hiring people. 200,000 people - these people aren't in the Labor Office anymore, they work, they pay taxes, health and social insurance, and even these 200,000 people have contributed to the fact that today the state runs as well as it does. So don't lie about raising welfare! We've increased our pensions. Are you saying it's a social benefit? That we're gonna talk about this pejoratively? About pensions? You say, my colleagues from the right, that pensioners do not deserve to be valued by the pensions that are in the draft budget - 309 CZK on average, which are there. I mean, that's a well-deserved pension valorization. That we've increased the care allowance for handicapped people, for families who care for severely disabled children, is that what you're blaming us for? The care allowance increased by 10 percent. Yes, because no one's picked him up here for eight years. He hasn't graduated in eight years. Is that what you're blaming us for? But we didn't raise the welfare benefits that people get when they're down! The benefits are still nominally the same, this government hasn't picked them up! And we didn't pick them up on purpose because we have a different policy. We want people to be motivated to work. So we're increasing minimum wage. And if there was anything particularly cynical that was said here, and now I don't know if it was Mr. Stanjura, or if it was Mr. Fiala, that you said we didn't motivate people to work. And you motivated them? You haven't raised a minimum wage in six years! For six years, this country's minimum wage was CZK 8,000 gross. The person in the social system at the doses you criticize had more in the clean than the person who collected CZK 8,000 gross. You didn't motivate people to work, because under your government, the one who lived on minimum wages had less money than the one who received the benefits of material distress. It's not like that anymore! By making the minimum wage of CZK 11,000 gross on January 1st, the person who lives out of the benefits will have less net than the person who earns only the minimum wage. This means that the difference is that it is finally starting to motivate people, because we did not increase the benefits of material distress, but we increase the minimum wage every year and that next year will be CZK 11,000 gross. This is a chance for people with low qualifications who are hard to find their place on the labour market, but have a chance to finally receive a minimum wage of at least CZK 11,000 gross. So I reject the lie that has been said here that perhaps we are increasing social benefits and that, as a result, people are not motivated to work. It's exactly the other way around, and I want everyone to hear it! We do not increase the benefits of material distress, but we increase wages, raise wages, increase minimum wages, and thus increase the motivation to work! All the time, and somebody here even asked if teachers were civil servants. They're not teachers of civil servants. But repeatedly, the right-wing MPs come out here and say: you are hiring tens of thousands of civil servants. At the same time, each of you knows that in tens of thousands, there are teachers, there are police officers, there are firemen, there are soldiers, there are the employees that have been the most added in three years: teachers, policemen, firemen, soldiers. Is that what you're blaming us for? On the one hand, you're blaming us for low defense spending, and on the other hand, you're blaming us for recruiting new soldiers. Or you're blaming us for hiring new cops or firemen. Or does it bother you that in kindergartens and schools there will be someone to teach? Does it bother you that we've hired new teachers - finally? That there's a chance to pay them - finally? You didn't pick them up. It's a huge myth and it's a lie again! Ladies and gentlemen, please remember that again. This is a lie. We accept teachers, we accept police officers, soldiers, people who care about the state, the public sector, but above all they provide services to citizens. I think any parent can just welcome it when they're at school, in kindergarten they'll have someone to teach when the government accepts the teacher. And the fact that we want to pay these people? Does that bother you? Does it bother you that we want to pay the teacher? Or that we've added cops or soldiers? Is this government's fault? Look at the situation on the labour market. There's record low unemployment. If we don't pay these people, we won't get new workers. In the public sector, people's quality will go down sharply. Logically, we have to pay them to keep those who are qualified and who work well for the state. So we raised our salaries, that's true. Next year, tariff salaries increase by 4 percent. Is this an excessive increase of 4 percent to raise the tariffs for police officers and firefighters? Or does the right mind that teachers were added 6 percent to the tariff on September 1st? You think that's too much for a teacher? The volume increased by 8%. Or does it bother you that nurses' salaries in hospitals will increase? You think the nurses aren't busy enough, that they're not overloaded? From 1 January, the nurses' tariff salaries will be increased by 10 %. It's part of the budget. We're increasing health expenses. So I'd like you to say those things as they are. Don't lie, don't twist reality, let's openly describe things as they are. We don't raise social benefits, we raise pensions. We don't recruit thousands of civil servants, we recruit thousands of teachers. This government motivates people to work because we raise minimum wage every year. And also, and it is clearly true, to blame us for not increasing our defense spending is hypocrisy. Three years ago, you might remember, the budget in 2014 by the Ministry of Defence was 42 billion. This is how we inherited it. That's what Rusnokův's government did - 2014, 42 billion. We supported the budget. There was no time to do anything about it. Now it's 52 billion. We've increased defense spending by 10 billion in three years. That's not enough, 42 to 52 billion. Crowns. So please don't tell me here that we're neglecting the defense that this isn't the government's priority. I think that any rational person who looks at the results of the government's economic policy must say that the economic policy of the government has benefited the country. When you look at the government's budgetary policy, you see that it has contributed to stabilizing the state, that there are stable public services. We can help and maintain social cohesion towards pensioners, the disabled. I remember that under your disabled ministers, people in wheelchairs, deaf people, blind people were demonstrating at the Ministry because your government was taking their money. That's not what our government does. And the last point is to the unemployed. We've talked about this before. Even if we have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe, we still have 366,000 people in our employment records. This is the figure for the month of October, the last one I was able to get available. 366,000 people are in the employment records. That's still a lot. That is why we have an active employment policy in this budget. We need to get these people into the labour market, at least part of them. I think that low unemployment, that there are 140,000 job vacancies, that is a big challenge for this year, when we meet here, there are not 366,000 people, but for them to be significantly less, and that is one of the aims of our government - to get these people into the labour market, to give them a new chance, to create programs that will help them, and, above all, to focus on the regions as there has been a speech, where unemployment is still too high today. So I'm not happy with the fact that there's still 366,000 people in there, but we're trying to do our best to get at least part of these people to find the job so they have a chance to start their existence and break free from their dependence on the welfare system. [[15.40 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, I, of course, could not respond to everything that was said here, which I would speak for another hour, perhaps not even a purpose. But I would really advocate that we try here to describe reality as it is, and not only to distort it as part of the promotion of our own political party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u112	Thank you. I'm recording four factual points. With the first to the microphone of Mr Laudát. I will ask the House for peace so that we can continue to act. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u113	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. In the logic of what Prime Minister Sobotka is saying here, perhaps he could say here if he's claiming to be very miserable today, and in a whole series of recurring results published by the statistical office, about the dramatic decline in the construction production of engineering activities in this country. So if you take everything that's going positive in this country, then apply to what's going negative here. And by the way, unlike a lot of things that you claim and claim to be your merit, your transport minister here is involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u114	Thank you. I will ask for a microphone with Mr Adamec in fact, Mrs Hnyková will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I might say, "Let's listen to each other." The Prime Minister here has gotten fired up and responded to something I never said in the fight. I really didn't. I was merely defending the performance and the President of the Fiala, who here said that the number of civil servants has increased. The Minister of Finance responded that the number of teachers had increased. So I asked if teachers are civil servants. Maybe today, given the activity you put on them, some may feel that way. But they're definitely not civil servants. Let's hear each other out, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u116	Thank you. I'll get Mrs Hnyková's mike, Mrs Adamová will be ready. All factual points. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u117	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, I was really upset about what you said to us here. You've named a lot of professions, and you've forgotten about social workers. I want to tell you through Madam President that I am not defending the position of the Dawn - National Coalition here, and I have always defended the social services workers in particular. And those in economic growth, their wage conditions, are very low. So the four percent increase you've given them since November is really a very bad money. People are leaving these social services and the quality of social services is falling and will continue to decline if you do nothing for them. I have asked for the support of the Chamber of Deputies, and I believe that it will perhaps take place in order to increase these salaries for these workers. So I would ask you and your colleagues from social democracy to think about this area and support the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u118	Thank you. I would like to see Mrs Adamová's microphone, Mrs Chalánková will be ready. All factual points. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u119	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, you have indeed presented such a pre-election speech here, angry, in many ways you have praised yourself for something that is not yours at all, because you must know, as former finance minister, how the economic cycle works. So please don't say that you're the only ones in government who are responsible for economic growth and that it's all your fault. It is, of course, due to companies, employers, etc., so don't take credit for their achievements. And the second point that goes towards increasing the number of officials. Only in the last two years, since 2014, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has increased the number of officials, respectively. will increase by 40 percent next year. That's almost half that. They're really officials, no firemen, no cops, no teachers. So if you're accusing someone of lying about misrepresenting, look really at the budget, into the individual chapters, where there's really an amount for next year to raise officials at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs by CZK 227 million, and these are really officials that are to be 238 new. So if there's only one part of what we've heard from you, at least that's what you should correct.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u120	Thank you. I would like to see Mrs Chalánková's microphone, Mr Tejc will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u121	Hello. Mr Prime Minister, through Madam President, I would like to respond to the way you have spoken that this government has ensured payment of a higher minimum wage. Of course, everyone is asked to receive the fair reward for his work. I would like to point out that the government does not pay the minimum or any other wage that employers pay it. Indeed, even those who create added value work on those who make up funds for those who actually pay the State. And even the state of its employees, whether they are officials or others, has increased tariffs and increased their numbers more than the private sphere can afford. That's one thing. I would also like to point out that the time has passed when it was possible to reduce the cost of work by reducing the levies. That is the most important amount of this whole situation. There are states that do not even have a minimum wage, and they also exist in some way. And high minimum wages mean high levies, which are also related to other tariffs and classes that are expected from the minimum wage. And those high levies mean back the saturation of the funds from which these various expenses are paid, whether they are social or national salaries. So watch it. You missed a time when you could revive the labour market by reducing labour market prices, by reducing contributions. I'm very sorry, you rule in the style of "the flood after us."
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u122	Thank you. I ask for Mr Tejc's microphone, Mr Volný will be prepared. Still factual points. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to respond to my two previous speakers. I think it's obvious we didn't miss anything. I do not think that we should compete with Asian countries, African countries, in what is the cost of work. Because if it were enough to lower the price of work, these would grow more than the Czech Republic and be more successful than the Czech Republic. And they're not. It's definitely not in the price of work. To what Mrs Adamová said, it is not the government's fault that it is not the majority that has now set up the government. It's always a constant saying that the right here repeats. But ladies and gentlemen on the right, every time you were in the government, when you were determining the economic policy of the government, the economy went down. Every time there was a social democracy, the economy went up. If it was once, you can say it's a coincidence, but she repeats that coincidence regularly with iron regularity. We need to put together what you guys screwed up. And I think if you had a little self-esteem, those who voted for those budgets in those past years of right-wing governments wouldn't even be here today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u124	Thank you. I'd like to see Mr. Volný's microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u125	Thank you for the floor, I'll be very brief, just for Mr. Adamec's sake, one clarification on those officials and employees. I go to a lot of discussions around the budget and also with my colleague Skopeček, who is an economic expert of the ODS, Mr Laudát, and this is common practice. They say it's increased by 25,000 officials. If they said that 25,000 civil servants, 40 percent of them teachers, 40 percent of them firemen, police officers and soldiers, 10 percent of the officials of the Financial Administration and 10 percent of them in the social sphere, that would be true. But the fact that it is commonly used, that 25,000 officials have increased, that's true, and let's avoid it, that's really a lie.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u126	Thank you. In fact, I would like to ask Mr Laudát for a microphone. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u127	Thank you. I must say that, for several years, my colleague Volný has not spoken the truth. I never said it went up 25 grand. Officials. I always say that with 2017 this government will increase the number of civil servants by more than 32,000. people, which is one big county town. And whether everyone considers whether the quality of public service towards citizens has improved or deteriorated. You invented a bunch of faggots about citizens, and that's why you get an army of people who exercise the power of the state. You do not work so that the state should serve people, but people serve the state. That's your policy. Don't say that. Don't just say that there is a year that this country has invested 20 billion from its own resources. This nonsense is absolutely unbelievable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u128	Those were factual remarks. And now, please, to the microphone duly logged in by Mr Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u129	Thank you for the floor. Unlike the Prime Minister, I'm not upset, although I could be after his performance. However, the first request for both Bohuslav Sobotka and Jeroným Tejc through you. We will not really choose here the next president of the Czech Social Democratic Party. Save your party election speeches for your nominations, for your conventions. Don't bring us into this. It's kind of interesting, I'm kind of enjoying watching it from the outside, but it's not the right plenary. I guess I'm gonna use the trick that the Prime Minister uses - I hate to do it, I'm always happy to be addressed - and I'm gonna say government MPs, or when the Communists suggest something, I'm gonna say left-wing MPs because he always says: right-wing MPs lie. I've been talking for quite a long time today, Prime Minister, I've had specific questions about specific ministers. They didn't answer me. That's no lie if you ask. Or I don't know if in your social democracy the question is a lie... From what you said, I didn't use anything. And it touches me when you tell me I'm lying. Take a look at the log. I'm sure I didn't say any of those lying things. And you used your favorite figure because you've been here about six times longer than I have, and I can still study. You answer and argue with something that no one has said, and now you're like, "Are you serious? Is that what you're blaming us for? Well, we don't. I wasn't talking about it. I was talking at the beginning that we found areas that are a priority according to our program, and we didn't propose savings in them! Education and education, for example. And you're saying, "Well, you don't want to blame us for wanting to save your money in education! And we're not gonna save... Well, we don't, Prime Minister. All we have to do is listen to each other. And I understand from the Prime Minister's speech that the challenge of the opposition is to praise the government. Because for three years, we've been brazen about the draft budget and we're saying what we think. Well, I suggest you all read Bohuslav Sobotka's performance when he was in opposition. He's not even very innovative in his speeches right now. Let's just say that, and I say it nicely, okay? The three messages always tell us 30 minutes. But it's okay. But when he was in opposition, it wasn't 30 minutes, it was three hours. But we didn't tell him he had no right and he said it all the time. Well, we had to put up with it. Here colleagues and colleagues from the ANO movement are sometimes impatient when something is slow. Well, if you could see the Social Democrats in opposition. On Tuesday from 14 to 18 Bohuslav Sobotka and Lubomír Zaorálek themselves two proposed changes to the program. Totally fine. It's a fact that we were here every Tuesday until midnight. We did it, we didn't complain. And now he's forgotten. That's the selective memory. Now he's forgotten. Well, I don't have the guts to talk every Tuesday for four hours. I really must admire that on one side. Although we suffer many in this House, if we must endure it. At least we have some priority rights, or we don't know when it's gonna be our turn. And now for some of the things that make the Prime Minister so angry. European funds. Well, he joined the rescue party. What a minister, a savior of European money. Prime Minister - the greatest savior and good man. He forgot to say that the rules for the programming period 2007 to 2013 logically prepared the governments of social democracy. Nonsense 24 operational programs. It wasn't a fantasy of our governments. That was their fantasy. Also, now that they've come to the government and we've been giving a sharp reduction in the number of operational programs, they've learned, and I commend that, and they haven't proposed enlargement. Let's take the numbers. It will be the end of 2016. It ends the third year of the programming period. And let's say the number, let's wait until January 5th, how much we've exhausted. Not how many challenges we've gotten. How much we've spent in three years. And let's compare it to the number we used up at the end of 2009. I don't know how that compares. But I think that's a fair comparison. Three years of the first programming period, three years of the second. The latter, of course, has the advantage of having some experience as a state and, in particular, we are trying to avoid negative ones. So it should be better. I don't see any improvement from the intermediate numbers - I say from the intermediate numbers that we have at our disposal - so far. But if there are proper elections, I am almost certain that the government that will take up in 2021 will be saving money and doing everything it can to draw it to the last euro. And I say that's a bad mantra. Let's talk about whether we use the money effectively. Or if it's just money for money. Our mantra should be used by each euro effectively, and not every euro will be used. The ideal condition is - we will use each euro effectively. But that's an ideal. A hundred percent will never succeed. That's how real we are. The Prime Minister did not talk about this, but we want to talk about it from one of the next days of the Chamber of Deputies, because this comparison is certainly interesting. I never once said social benefits were increasing. I criticized your government for not fighting the abuse of social benefits. But let us all remember the sentence that the Prime Minister said: In our country, social benefits are not abused. That's what the Prime Minister said about 30 minutes ago. I think we live in another country, Prime Minister. And if we can't talk about it because, as the Prime Minister said, that's an attack on the lowest instincts, that's not good. That's the kind of political correctness that we should get rid of, and if there's a problem, we should name it. And I criticized your government for not even trying to fight the abuse. And I say repeatedly, even for the Prime Minister - he doesn't listen to me - that the money we save from those who abuse them should be given to those who deserve more help than today. We're not suggesting a forceful reduction in the total package, but a much more direct help and help to those who really need it because they're getting less than they deserve. And we are in an economic situation that we have more to give to those who need help than we do today. But in order to afford it, at the same time, we need to get those who abuse it out of the system. So again, talk about the goat and the Prime Minister on the wagon. But even louder and more decisively. It's too bad it's mixed up with what we said or what we argued. And I didn't really want to use it, but everyone does what they deserve. My colleague Tejc - and I forgive him and tolerate him, he's a lawyer, with his evaluation of the economic program, as poor people always manage on the right... That's just not true. And I understand that. I don't want to argue with you about the individual sections of the Civil Code, either, I really don't. But I have noted in the press that Jeroným Tejc's statement that the Social Democrats should support Miloš Zeman, that he is the right president and that they should support him and that they might also support him again. And I fully respect that. But the chairman of the Constitutional Committee, today their expert on the economy, somehow disobeyed President Zeman, who said here: The first economic crime in this country was the phrase'sources are'. [[He's mimicking.]] But the sentence was said by the Prime Minister's chief advisor and carried out by the Minister of Finance. And that position was held by Prime Minister Sobotka at the time. And somehow he didn't talk - as he says, he doesn't have a selective memory unlike us, he remembers everything, he just probably forgot to tell how budgets went when he was the finance minister and he was a 6% GDP growth. Prime Minister Tejc forgot that, too, and I can't do it. Who's gonna start... I always say I'm a defenseman, but he kicked me first, so I have to defend myself. [[16.00 hours]] But I have to appreciate, and now I'm serious that the first person to speak with a really passionate budget defense is the Prime Minister. I blamed you for sitting here this morning, and you don't care, so I'd appreciate that. I won't use strong words as lies. I'm going to assume that the Prime Minister forgot something, something has already fallen out of his nonselective memory, some of the not-so-good numbers he forgot. Why would he bring them here? I have to praise myself, no one else will do it for me. I'm going to swallow a poisonous remark, which I was going to say, but the Prime Minister complimented himself... And I understand that the government praises itself by having the lowest unemployment, and I think we can all be proud of that. Everyone, really. It's about a tenth, but it doesn't matter if we're first this month and next month we're second or vice versa. It is really good news for citizens of the Czech Republic. But what I'm sorry about is that the Prime Minister forgets, and I'm only here for the second term, so I have a two-term memory when we argued in the last parliamentary term that GDP is not the only indicator to be monitored, so you kept hitting us with GDP in Slovakia, didn't you? They have more in Slovakia. And when we said, look at unemployment, in crisis years we were between 5th and 6th place, so it was nothing. And that was also a very good result. And I say I'm proud to be first or second, second or first. But when it was in our reign, the fact that we were fifth or sixth, it doesn't matter that we had half unemployment against the next state, the Prime Minister found in opposition the parameter in which we weren't so good or in which we were worse than our neighbors, and so he beat us on the head. And what does he want us to do? So we don't do that, so we find the right parameter and come here to praise him. Two hundred thousand people found work. That's great news. Really great news. But, and that's a different view of right-wing and left-wing politics, I thank employers, entrepreneurs, businessmen, everyone who has created at least one job, or - and it's not at all easy in those small companies, small companies, businessmen - it's kept a job. It's also very complicated. That's where I see credit, and that's what we should all be thanking, and that's who we should be making life easier for. And we don't do that. I really don't. So hat down in front of those who create jobs. I don't think any government creates jobs except for officials, right-wing or left-wing, but the government can either release space for activity, for business, for employment, or tie it up. And I'm a supporter of the first, and I think you're legit, and that's why you're left-wing politicians, the other's supporters. And that's it. And Prime Minister, the numbers. Objectively, we must say that, with the expected growth of 2.4 percent of GDP in 2017, the planned deficit is 60 billion. is about three times better than when the growth rate was 6% and you were the Minister of Finance. This is undoubtedly an improvement, and even jumping. We feel that this is not enough and we think that the Czech ČR can do better.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before I give the floor in factual remarks, allow me to start by canceling my note from this afternoon's meeting. The first point of fact is the report by Mr Tejc and Mr Pilný will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u131	Thank you for the floor. I think that the citizens of the Czech Republic must have seen what they were doing better in which governments, and then they issued the report card in the previous elections. I think that what is important and I will certainly not please President Stanjura, but I can only tell him one thing. We won't be rivals to ourselves. My opponent, Bohuslav Sobotka and other Social Democrats will be those who will want the return of a failed right-wing strangulation policy that did not benefit this country. I believe that every one of us who has been sitting here in the benches of social democracy can only sign what Bohuslav Sobotka has said, and clearly no matter what you say, our policy is successful. Unfortunately, yours was not successful for people, unfortunately for people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u132	Thank you. Now, with Mr Pilný's factual remark, Mr Stanjura will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, my colleagues and I have become accustomed to listening here for tens of minutes to who has done what and who is to blame. After all, that's all we have left. It seems rather unproductive to us, but unfortunately we will not do anything about it by the end of this parliamentary term. However, what puzzles me as Chairman of the Economic Committee is that everyone seems to understand not only the anti-smoking law but also the economy. When I hear Mrs Chalánková here, who says that we have missed a chance to revive the labour market at a time when we have 366 thousand unemployed, the vast majority of whom do not want to work, there are tens of thousands of jobs missing in the market, I really do not understand this point, and I have run out of patience here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u134	Thank you, too. Now, then, Mr Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u135	I can't summon a colleague. Not by you, Mr. Vice-President. We don't want to return any of the strategizing policies, but that's what the people in the election decide, I don't want to talk about it. But try to compare two numbers. You say with respect how we cut and strangled, so look at the government's budget material: investment in 2012 - 112 billion. In your pro-growth, pro-investment, open, completely different from the strangulation, saving investments is 104. That's minus 8 billion. That's a pretty simple thought. What's wrong with your argument? I guess you'll answer that yourself. I know the numbers are relentless, and it's much better to fence around with stickers. The President of the Economic Committee. In principle, I agree with you, with the first and second parts, but it should be said that the leader of the reminiscence, the memories of who is responsible for what is your chairman. And right behind him, tight, they're competing, who's more, the Prime Minister. And that's just the truth. So if you make it at home so it doesn't keep saying, well, what are you in 25 years and 25 years... So we haven't ruled for 25 years, unfortunately. You're forgetting. We were in government about half, maybe less than half. But if it doesn't start every speech you have for 25 years or colleagues, yeah, when we ruled, it was an idyllic thing to do when you ruled, it was hell, so time to debate the numbers, the spending in each chapter, so the ministers would tell us why all of a sudden it was going on, and the government couldn't do it, why 300 million here, 200 million here, 400 million here. I didn't get the answers, and they were correct specific questions. But I've heard what's been going on since almost 1990. I have no choice but to trust veterans like Bohuslav Sobotka, or then I have to study it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u136	Your time, Mr. Ambassador! [[Messenger. Stanjura ended his contribution.]] Thank you. As I do not see any factual point, with priority rights, President Bělobrádek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u137	Mr President, colleagues, I would like to repeat a few words and phrases that President Stanjura, in particular, used here: the trick, the present, the listening, the pre-election rhetoric, the selective memory, the numbers are relentless. So, Mr President, through Mr President, I will use this to appeal to you, because we have already explained some things to ourselves here last time regarding the budget for science and research. Your chairman wasn't here. It's a shame you didn't make sure he heard the arguments, because we could forgive ourselves for these election squadrons. We, as well as President Kalousek, have explained the figures relating to GDP in science and research. I assumed these tricks would be used again. Chairman Kalousek here said you can play with those numbers. Yes, that's exactly what happened from his fellow Chairman of the ODS Fiala. So I took the liberty of getting the table ready. [[He's showing the chart.]] The table, as you say, numbers are relentless. I have a table here with the money so-called. public. Public money is, in this context, national budget money plus European funds. Under the ODS, the government's resolution said that the government should give 1% of GDP from national sources. Then the ODS government turned it into public budgets, because it was not funded from national budgets. And I get it, and I think it was the right move. That way, they count to this percentage as national money, which is what we're talking about here. That means the state budget plus European money. As you can see, yes, President Fiala spoke of GDP coming from public budgets in the ODS, not from the state budget, but from public money to 0.98. But he forgot to say that it was a time of the greatest draw on European funds, because here we have a second line that he didn't talk about, and that was national money, that is, from the state budget. [[He's showing the chart again.]] And here we're moving to a maximum of 0.66%. While now we have planned for 2017 already 0.68. So more of the national money as far as the percentage of GDP is concerned. As money will be drawn from national sources and from European sources, the overall GDP curve from public budgets will go up and our forecast for 2018 will exceed 1% that your governments have never achieved. So we have a clear number here. Please don't mix public money and state budget because it's not the same thing. From the national budget, yes, now there was a decline. And that decline was especially in 2014. Since then, there has been an increase in national money. We're already at a quarter nominal. We're a quarter more than we've been here in the previous years. And we're planning to have a third more money here for research, development and innovation. So please don't use these tricks. Be present, listen to each other. And I would very much like these relentless numbers, which I am willing to make available to you, to be used. As far as further planning is concerned, I would also like you to ask how satisfied industrialists are. Ask them. Ask the Confederation of Industry and Transport. They appreciated this draft budget. A significant increase in applied research. I believe that something substantial has also not been mentioned here. Yes, President Fiala, through the President, criticised the rise of officials. And I'll tell him again. He wasn't here. It's also about what officials they are. If I'm able to hire officials who cancel outsourcing, and I hire them and do 50 percent of what he was outsourcing for a load, I think that's the right thing to do. There's also an agenda. This agenda is partly given by what we do. How we work with industry. They are the first challenges, the first programs that are set on the needs of the market. You didn't talk to them. You guys didn't talk to the people they actually need. What's the long-term strategy? What are the needs of individual sectors. How to promote economic growth and competitiveness over the next few years. I believe that in this regard it was unfair to this area of our state budget and the proposal that is here. I understand many arguments. I can agree with many, but this is just a game of numbers. And I repeat, from national sources in our budget, a larger percentage of GDP is planned for science and research next year than it was for you. And I'm completely missing the absolute numbers. Absolute figures are, of course, dramatically higher in the billions of crowns, precisely because there is high economic growth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u138	Thank you. I'm recording four factual points. First will be President Stanjura, then President Kalousek and others. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u139	That's how I feel about déjà vu. We had the debate at second reading, and I think I spoke correctly about national and European money and about the whole. But by the way, our government has also been your government for years. We ruled together, didn't we? [[He's turning to ministers.]] I think that's true. Our government was your government, too. You weren't in it, neither was I. I'm talking to Mr. Vice Prime Minister. So we don't forget who our coalition partner was in Topolánkův's government. So we don't forget who he was. It's like that, it's convenient. So to remind everyone, one of the ODS governments was also here with KDU-ČSL's coalition partner. And I'm not questioning it. I'm not ashamed of it. I'm just reminding you. And what you said, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. It's true. Then ask the Prime Minister next door. You guys were saving the draw? It's like what we keep hearing. And now you're saying you had more money, but that's not fair, because you've exhausted more than we have. So what's the truth? Were you saving the money, or were they exhausted under our government? One or the other. That's what we're hearing today, and it's true, I was talking about it, that there was a higher proportion of European money. And I was talking about the total number, so I didn't use any tricks. I used those relentless numbers. [[An unintelligible remark from the government bench.]] Okay. For us, under that bad government - because it was without KDU, it is a bad government of ODS, good government was with KDU, it must be known - it was 0.66% of national resources and now it is - next year it will be 0.68%. How much difference is that? Five hundred million? Five years? It's not that much. And by the way, your government, this one, won't be here in 2018. So we have to figure out whose government is going to reach 1% in 2018. We'll say that in a year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u140	Thank you for keeping time. Now, President Kalousek, with a point of fact, will be prepared by President Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u141	Thank you for the floor. I do not question, Mr Vice-President of the Government, the figures you presented here. I'm not even questioning your sincere efforts to get maximum funding for science and research. But we don't just have to talk about specific numbers. Let us really talk about priorities. In times of debt crisis, when it was really necessary to save, whether someone liked it or didn't like it, the only chapter where it didn't go absolutely short, on the contrary where it grew slightly, was the chapter of science and research. And although there was not enough money, it was a clear priority because we did not touch it, but we insisted on growing there. At a time of economic good times - which you didn't deserve, but I don't want to argue about it - at a time of good economic times, when you still dare a high deficit budget, when everything really grows, there is no way to talk about science and research as a priority when it grows by just 500 million, while tens of billions grow by completely different items that really do not serve the future competitiveness of the state, whether they are salaries for thousands of new officials and tens of thousands of new civil servants, whether they are a ten-billion-dollar increase in social benefits or the fastest growing non-investment item - I repeat non-investment - subsidies to business groups. Those are priorities. Not science and research. For the so-called... the budget cuts science and research priority was. Now she's a Cinderella because you're putting those priorities elsewhere. And you're not gonna talk about any table whose particular numbers I don't question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u142	Thank you. Mr Fiala will now speak with a point of fact, Mrs Chalánková will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u143	Thank you. I will respond to the Vice-President of the Government and, indeed, only on the basis of figures and facts. Yes, it is true that we combine national and foreign resources in research and development, but in that result, it has an impact on both. Plus, those things are tied up in research right now. We have also committed ourselves to supplementing national resources in the next programming period with what we had previously acquired in foreign ones, so the argument is not entirely correct in this respect. And when I look at the numbers, yes, 2013 - 39.8 including foreign sources, 2017 - 40.2, that's almost the same thing. The increase in national resources is from 26,7 - 2013 to 32.8 for next year. But the overall decline in relation to gross domestic product is a clear signal that research is not a priority for this government. And while we are on this increase, it is not very clear how it will be implemented, because even those Czech resources are partly for co-financing European programmes, where there is already a delay. So part of the allocated funds, thanks to the N+2 rule, may be lost. And the rest you're talking about, the rest of the increase, it actually covers only the costs that are necessary for existing activities that in the past have been financed from the structural period. These are facts that can't be lost, and that's clearly what the numbers you're calling for. But a significant feature, if I look at the quality of what is proposed in the 2017 budget for research, is also the direction of funds into the research department. And it was precisely the resort research that was weakened by the 2009 reform because there was a lack of results and that the money was running there. And when I look at the further growth of spending, it is the renewal of official research sites in individual departments and the continued growth of this official and government agenda, and that is certainly not good for supporting research in the Czech Republic. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u144	Thank you. Now, then, Mrs Chalánková, with a point of fact. Are you reporting, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, with priority rights? With a factual point of view. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to reiterate my claim that the current government has missed a favourable period of economic growth in order to implement labour market reforms by reducing the levy. That's what this is all about. It is quite clear to me that the social, basically pension contributions go primarily towards the payment of pensions, the ongoing pillar. On the other hand, it is a question of courage whether we can reduce these levies precisely at a time of economic growth, when we can reform a pension account, reform the labour market, or, as a leftist, leave high levies with the fact that we have a very good chance of redistributing. So that's what I wanted to say - that the current left-wing government doesn't want to bite the acidic apple of possible reforms, but it likes to redistribute. That's what this is all about. There's a flood after us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u146	Thank you. Now with a point of fact, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u147	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, so President Stanjura used another trick when he said, "I didn't say it." Yes, he didn't say it, but his colleagues from his political party said it. So that's totally normal for him. Let's also say yes correctly, we were like KDU-ČSL in government with ODS. But you can't really compare that, because at that time, even the current Chairman of the TOP 09 was a minister for us, so I think it's a little more complicated than that. As for what President Kalousek said, I'm glad we agree on those numbers. I just don't know where he got the 500 million. The increase is 3.75 billion against the medium term, which is 13 percent, so I don't know where he got 500 percent. Those are clear numbers, please. And as far as President Fiala is concerned, I don't think that was correct argument from him, because in one part he says that something is growing there, in another, that it doesn't grow. On the other hand, we are preparing to be ready in 2022, 2023 to make money from European funds go away. As far as research is concerned, it is so, Mr Fiala, through Mr President, that the ministries that gave up money for the benefit of the Technological Agencies, after five years of operation, the Technological Agencies wanted to abolish the Technological Agency and they wanted the money back because they received less money from the Technological Agency than they had in their own budget. We've managed to prevent this. And to even have someone to communicate with them except one deputy and one reporter, it's about one, but two more people in the entire ministry. And that will certainly pay off, because we want to encourage resort research to define what it really wants, through the Technology Agency, and to be a real service organization. I'm prepared to explain the matter to you. It's a little more complicated than that. [[Your time.]] However, I think that's a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u148	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. Another point of fact is made by Mr Tejc. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u149	I've already promised myself that for the last time, and I promise you. But I was inspired by Chairman Stanjura to use some numbers. So I looked them up here to respond to what was said here by Mrs Chalánková - after us the flood. I think that what the Flood is after can be demonstrated on state debt figures, and I think it is necessary to look at 2006, when right-wing governments came in. At that time, the government debt was 802 billion. When they finished in 2012, it was 1,667 billion. And for comparison, in 2015, it was 1,673 billion. That means state debt is no longer rising, at least it is not rising so fast, and lately - depending on what we compare it to - it is falling. So if there's anyone after the flood, it's not us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u150	Thank you. We will therefore now proceed to the duly applied for, and that is Mr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u151	Thank you. I waited an hour with a proper application. I often hear criticism here that they shouldn't be abused by the techs. I think it's a parade today, but at least I can respond to what's been said here. Vice-President of the Government, I think Bělobrádek, when he was here defending official posts, etc. and he said that before outsourcing, so simply some officials have to accept, so I would like to turn his attention to the chapter of the Ministry for Regional Development, where the costs of outsourcing on brokering services, etc., legal advice, from around CZK 1.1 or 1.2 million to 44 from year to year, are rising significantly, while the number of officials increases by approximately 350. A significant part is a contribution organization, some of it is at the Ministry of Regional Development. So, unfortunately, this doesn't apply, and it's based on what was said there. A colleague of yours. I would like to remind Tejc through the President that in 2005 and 2006, he was one of the highest unemployment rates in the Czech Republic - 9.8% I believe. So the "it's always been good for us," look at it, check it out on your cell phone. It's quite simple. It's in the statistics. I suggest you take a look at this. I also listened to my colleague, President of the Pilný Economic Committee, through the President. I agree with you that unemployment is very low and that it is actually difficult to find people. And why, then, does your government, through the President, invest hundreds of millions of crowns as investment incentives for more and more companies to come here in an environment where it is not actually possible to obtain labour? And that's also part of the budget. And it's hundreds of millions of crowns. Maybe a rhetorical question, I don't want you to react. The Prime Minister said an interesting thing here, and I'd like to explain it. He said raising minimum wage, that's the motivation. Then explain to me how motivational it is to order companies to raise their salary, as it motivates those employees. Please, somebody try to explain. Or at least the companies. It really has nothing to do with motivation. [[16.30 hours]] I am convinced that the economic results that the Czech Republic has today are my deep conviction, so it does not have them because they are so well governed, but despite the government, despite the parameters of the individual legislation that you bring here and which are approved here. It's more or less a miracle that something like this is happening, and thank God for that. And the European funds. Prime Minister, you are a commemorator, and you remember well the time when European funds were set up in 2005 and 2006 for this financial year 2007 to 2013, and you also remember well that the draw also started later, probably sometime in 2008, because before the Czech Republic learned to live with it, governments took turns, etc., it was all new for us. However, there was no such degree of inability to draw at that time. She really wasn't. And President Stanjura said it would be interesting to compare the period 2014 to 2020 with the period 2007 to 2013. I think it would be even better to compare it to other countries now. See how other countries draw close to us, for example, and compare this. Slovák are pumping, and much better. Much better!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u152	Madam Secretary, I'm gonna ask you not to yell at the MP. I urge you to be disciplined.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u153	Madam Secretary, if you're yelling at me like that, then try to come over here and at the same time answer a little question, why do you want 1.4 miles in your budget last year? And next year, 7.7. Detail. Or why you want to go to those consulting services from 1.2 miles. In the next year, 44. I'd really rather hear that instead of yelling. Try at least now, you've got a chance, come tell me. And the numbers of the European Union. Prime Minister, you simply cannot and must not be indifferent to the fact that the drawdown of European transport funds is zero for the last October of this year. Zero! The MIT shall manage its operational programme or operational programme 0,02. From 863 billion allocated. CZK for the Czech Republic we are at 31. 10. exhausted 0.8 percent. You can say anything emotionally here, but these are the facts, I got it from the Treasury Secretary, by the way, I didn't make them up and I didn't suck them out of my finger, I got them on the basis of an interpelation, the Finance Minister answered me. And I can keep quoting where everywhere, what a disaster. So, MMR - Madam Secretary, why don't you explain to us how you planned in your chapter for this year to draw European money, you from the MMR, and you have 0.01 in one operational program and 5.5 in the other. Well, at least come explain it to us. Or I have suggested here that we talk specifically about drawing European funds to establish or incorporate a debate on this subject in the Chamber of Deputies' agenda, because it is a serious matter and it is going through parliamentary periods. And it should bother us all, even the Prime Minister, and the Minister of Finance, and you, the coalition MPs. And you turned down the debate. Maybe you're gonna shove it in there, and here you're gonna say how others haven't been pumping in the past period, but you're not pumping yourself! And you know why? You don't know. I just can't. And we'd like to hear why, and if we can help. And now I'm quite serious. Why are you defending yourself? See you next year. But you set that budget as an election, you got bears all over it. The Department of Agriculture will do chapels, buy tractors, the Minister of the Interior will give 20 miles. To prevent crime -- well, we'll save it, that'll be great! And more and more things - there'll be more snacks. I just can't do this. They don't even respond, it's a shame, maybe a little something for some, but it's little, really little, unfinished.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u154	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. As I am not registering an application, I am ending the debate. I wonder if you want to take the final words at this point. Mr. Rapporteur? It's not like that. The Minister is not here and I will ask that the presence of the Minister of Finance be ensured before we proceed to the vote on the amendments. Okay, since the Minister of Finance is not present, I'm interrupting the meeting for five minutes to 16.40. [[Protests in the hall. The Minister of Finance is entering the hall.]] In that case, I take it back, I've overlooked that the Minister... [[Again, objections from the O.R.]] Okay, I said five minutes, we'll continue at 16.40.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for a break is up. I'm gonna call my coworker and coworkers from the lobby. We will therefore now proceed to the vote on the amendments. I ask the rapporteur to present the various amendments and express the opinion of the committee before voting on them. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u156	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Finally, we will get to the essential one, namely the vote on the amendments. I hope it's going to have a little bit of momentum. [[Strong noise in the whole hall.]] Maybe I'll repeat, even though we've approved the procedure, as we're going to vote. First, we should vote on the legislative technical amendment made by Mrs -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u157	I'm sorry to bring you up to speed, but I'm going to ask you to remain calm so that I understand the procedure of the vote as well as you do. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u158	Yes, thank you. First of all, we should vote on the legislative technical regulation of Mrs Zelienková, which she gives to her amendment B28. We would then vote first of all on the amendments tabled in the Committee on Budgets, respectively on a budget committee resolution, on a single basis, following individual amendments. We would then vote on the amendments tabled at plenary at second reading by individual Members. We would then vote on the resolution on the state budget as a whole. Finally, the accompanying resolutions tabled and adopted by the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u159	Okay, thank you. I'm sorry, rapporteur. [[A Member of Kalousek is reporting for the floor.]] The President Kalousek shall report with priority rights. [[Question from the right side of the hall: The procedure?]] The procedure, yes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u160	I'm sorry. The rapporteur may have meant it anyway. I just want to make sure that the accompanying resolutions, which are on two points, are voted on points, not together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u161	Yes, they will be voted on by the points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u162	Okay. I want to ask, does anyone object to the proposed procedure? It's not like that. First of all, I'd like to vote on the procedure to approve it. So the procedure was presented, no one objected. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the procedure proposal, as presented, to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 139. 186 Members and Members are registered for proposal 176, against no one. I'm stating that the procedure proposed has been approved. I now ask you, rapporteur, to guide us through this procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u163	Thank you. First of all, we would therefore vote on the legislative technical amendment to Amendment B28 by Mrs Zelienková. It's just a mix-up. The office of State representation in property matters, or the Ministry of Culture, will be there the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u164	The position of the guarantee committee? [[The opinion shall be agreed.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It's a 140-order vote. 186 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 134, against 4. This proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u165	I'm just taking the liberty of fixing you. It was not, of course, the position of the guarantee committee. It was my position as rapporteur because Mrs Zelienková didn't read it until here at the third reading. We would therefore now vote on the various amendments, as set out in the resolution of the Committee on Budgets. Of course, there was consent. I will give opinions for myself as rapporteur and -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u166	Mr rapporteur, I must say that it is important that you say only the views of the Committee on Budgets, as it has been decided.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u167	So the positions of the Budget Committee are positive everywhere, of course. Because it is in the budget committee's resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u168	It's not always like that. Not every opinion has a positive opinion on the guarantee committee -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u169	We don't understand each other. This will be the case when we vote on the amendments tabled at second reading. Then yes. Then the guarantee committee gave opinions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u170	Okay. [[Chairman Stanjura is reporting.]] Mr. Chairman Stanjure for the procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u171	The amendments under letter A were approved by the Committee on Budgets before the second reading. So there's always a positive attitude. And the various amendments that were made at second reading were simply not discussed by the Committee on Budgets. So there's no position. If we haven't discussed this, we can't have an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u172	Yes, it is always the positions of the guarantee committee. Because, if it's the fact that the guarantee committee didn't accept these... he didn't discuss them. In that case, there is no opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u173	Yes, I'm sorry. That's how it's done by ordinary laws. Of course, we did not comment on this in the budget. So once again, I say that I will express my own position. [[Speech of disapproval in the entire hall.]] I will express the rapporteur's position!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u174	Yes. That's right. The rapporteur must give an opinion. Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u175	If the guarantee committee hasn't discussed this, I'll admit that the guarantee committee hasn't discussed it, that I was wrong. Because it's under the ordinary law. Well, there's gonna be an opinion. The Minister will give the opinion and I will give the opinion as rapporteur. This concerns those who were presented at second reading. What has been presented and approved by the Committee on Budgets is, of course, positive everywhere, the opinions of the Committee on Budgets. However, that does not prevent me from giving my opinion as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u176	Mr Kalousek, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u177	Excuse me, please. But I think it is logical - the state budget is being negotiated under the special head of the Rules of Procedure in a regime other than standard laws. At this point, I'm not sure whether we had the proposals that fell at second reading on the guarantee committee or not. Whether it's done or not, we're just going to vote on them with the fact that they're unnegotiated. And I don't mind here when the rapporteur of the law gives his opinion on this. But the amendments approved by the Committee on Budgets have been approved by the Committee on Budgets, and there I would expect, Mr President, the rapporteur, that you will give the opinion of the guarantee committee to which you chair. I don't think you're called to another.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u178	Yes. You described the process exactly. So, please, we will proceed to the vote on individual proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u179	So, yes. We will vote on the amendments that are under A. I will read the order number of the amendment. I suppose everyone has it so that I don't quote forever what amendment this is. Amendments to the Committee on Budgets now. Well, I don't know what you want anymore, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u180	Please, Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u181	Nothing at all about that point A, that's pretty clear. But I would therefore like to know why we did not discuss those amendments in the Committee on Budgets. That's what I'm really interested in. [[Unintelligible]] they have not adopted the resolution. Because I'm still looking in our book, it says something that has to happen between second and third readings. Yes, then we have special paragraphs that relate to the state budget negotiations, which, among other things, we have. they say that they e.g. doesn't apply the section on hours set, that's a yes. But there is a paragraph that if this is not discussed in the guarantee committee, 20 Members or two MPs can say that it is not possible to vote at third reading. Well, before we consider it, I want to ask why we didn't actually discuss it on the guarantee committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u182	Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u183	I have an interpretation that the state budget is governed by slightly different rules of procedure, it is an exceptional law, and that after second reading there is no longer a guarantee committee to discuss the amendments tabled at second reading. Unlike ordinary laws, where amendments are, of course, made at second reading, the Committee will then sit down and express its views on them. As I say, I have a statement that this is not necessary in the case of the state budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u184	Mr. Stanjura is still reporting, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u185	It's Section 106, which is called the Third Reading of the State Budget Bill, which is where we are right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u186	I'm gonna ask you to calm down so we understand what the President is saying! Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u187	There are listed paragraphs that don't apply, that's perfectly fine. However, of this Section 95, which relates to the third reading of the draft law, the general wording, does not apply only § 95a, we all know that, i.e. That we can discuss outside the hours 9 to 14. There's no other restriction here. I'm not saying it can't be. But you say you have it at your disposal, we don't have that kind of legal opinion available, so if it is, let someone read it here and introduce us to that position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u188	Okay, in that case, I propose an eight-minute break until 5:00 p.m. for a legislative consult. Then we'll continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, after consulting the legislation, the following procedure is proposed. The rapporteur will read the various amendments and does not say the position on them. The opinion on individual amendments will be said only by the Minister of Finance. That's a match. No one objects to the procedure? [[No one checked in.]] In that case, I will ask you, rapporteur, to begin the vote on the state budget. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u190	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, this is unconventional, but okay, I will submit. We will vote on the first amendment A1.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u191	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 141, 185 Members and Members registered, for proposal 61, against 107. This proposal was rejected. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u192	Another is Amendment A2 - it is the General Inspection of the Security Corps on State Debt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u193	Minister - opinion. [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 142, 185 Members are registered, for proposal 55, against 83. The motion was denied. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u194	Amendment A3 - Ministry of Health, it is within the scope of the chapter, CZK 10 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u195	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 143, 185 Members and Members registered, for proposal 164, against no one. This proposal was adopted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u196	A4, which is within the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports - the Egyptian Institute, CZK 20 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u197	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 144, 185 Members are registered, for proposal 170, against no one. This proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u198	It is also the A5 - Ministry of Education against State Debt, CZK 50 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u199	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 145, 185 Members are registered, for proposal 79, against 79. This proposal was rejected. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u200	A6 - Ministry of Education against State Debt, it is a technical education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u201	Minister - opinion. [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 146, 185 Members are registered, for proposal 82, against 70. This proposal has not been adopted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u202	Next, A7. These are transfers within the Ministry of Education, 150 million crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u203	Minister - opinion. [[Agreed.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 147, 185 Members and Members registered, for proposal 138, against no one. This proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u204	A8, which are transfers under the chapter of the Ministry of Labour, CZK 220 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u205	Thank you. The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 148, 185 Members are registered, for proposal 158, against no one. This proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u206	A9, which is a transfer under the chapter of the Ministry of Labour. This is an investment in social services CZK 322 560 000.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u207	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 149, 185 Members are registered, for proposal 177, against no one. This proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u208	It is also an A10 within the General Treasury Administration for the Czechoslovak community of 8 million crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u209	Thank you. The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 150, 185 Members are registered, for the 168 proposal, against no one. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u210	A11, which is an increase in salaries for independent chapters in total volume 51 926 935 CZK.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u211	Thank you. The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 151, 185 Members are registered, for proposal 176, against 1. The proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u212	A12, which is the establishment of a new chapter by the Office of the National Budget Board.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u213	Thank you. The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 152, 185 Members and Members registered, for proposal 107, against 1. The proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u214	A13 is only a word from the Financial Analysis Department to the Financial Analysis Office.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u215	Thank you. The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 153. 185 Members and Members are registered for proposal 178, against no one. The proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u216	A14. Ministry of Justice against State Debt - 15 miles. Crowns at the prison in Hungary Hradiště.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u217	Mr. Minister, an opinion? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 154. 185 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 53, against 109. This proposal was rejected. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u218	A15. The government's office against government debt. It's on drug policy - 15 miles. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u219	Thank you. The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a 155-order vote. 185 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 54, against 93. The motion was not accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u220	A16, which is only inside the chapter of the Ministry of Culture - commitment to festival funds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u221	Thank you. The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 156. 185 Members and Members are registered, in favour of the 176 proposal, against no one. The proposal has been approved. I am sorry, Mr rapporteur, it is President Stanjura who is reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u222	I have a question. To explain what we actually voted on. The rapporteur says it's about commitment, but the text says it's just about text change. It's a fact that the name is exactly the same, only in the item is the number. When we get back to it, we voted that the state support programme of the professional art festival 40 miles. CZK will change, and that is just the name, in the programme of state support for the festival of professional art 100 miles. Crowns. Did we just change the name, or did we make a commitment? That's really something completely different. I assume that we only voted on a change of name because there are two zeros in the appropriations for reducing and increasing the budget, and then I consider this to be a completely unnecessary vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u223	I don't know if it's pointless. [[Restlessness and conjecture in the hall.]] I think the Minister will explain.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u224	It's a change of text only.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u225	As mentioned here, this is a change of text.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u226	I'm sorry. So it was explained differently to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u227	I'll ask you if you want to enter into a discussion, so on the microphone, in case that's not the case, we'll continue the procedure. I'm asking the Minister if we can continue. [[Yes, I'm sure.]] We can go on. Everything's fine. [[Cheer up in the right side of the hall.]] In that case, we'll continue. I beg you, rapporteur, to continue the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u228	A17, which is the Ministry of Culture against the General Treasury. This is the operation of the National Gallery - 50 miles. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u229	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 157. 185 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 171, against 2. The proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u230	A18. Ministry of Culture against General Treasury Administration - 100 mil. crowns for monuments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u231	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 158. 185 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 175, against no one. The proposal has been approved. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u232	A19, which is a transfer within the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - 200 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u233	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 159. 185 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 154, against 17. This proposal has been approved. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u234	This has dealt with the amendments tabled and voted on the Committee on Budgets. We would now vote on the amendments tabled at second reading. B1, which is a transfer under the chapter of the Ministry of Environment. Served by colleague Okleštěk - 30 miles. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u235	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 160. 185 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 162, against no one. The proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u236	Amendment B2 by Mrs Černochová concerns the Ministry of Defence, plus 10 billion. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u237	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 161. 185 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 43, against 109. The motion was denied. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u238	Further B3, which is the Ministry of Culture against the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. She served Mrs. Cernochová - 30 miles. 195 thousand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u239	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 162. 185 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 73, against 82. The motion was denied. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u240	B4, which is 90 miles. CZK for the Ministry of Interior of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes. Mr. Ondráček served.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u241	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 163. 184 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 37, against 120. The motion was denied. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u242	B5, which is a reduction in funds from the Office of the President of the Republic in favour of the government budget reserve of 5 million 456 thousand 712, Mrs Kovářová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u243	Thank you. The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 164. 185 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 33, against 117. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u244	It is also B6, which is within the Ministry of Environment 10 million crowns, Mr. colleague Zahradník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u245	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 165. 185 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 50, against 88. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u246	It is now an amendment under B7 and has three variants. He's a colleague of Vilímec's, CZK 200 million. So I guess we'd vote by choice, if that's a yes. So variant one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u247	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 166. 185 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 69, against 94. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u248	Variant 2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u249	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 167. 185 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 70, against 91. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u250	The last, third option.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u251	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 168. 185 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 69, against 93. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u252	Next thing you know, it's B8. It's for the Ministry of Defense, 2 billion 280 million at the expense of the Ministry of Agriculture. Mr. Skalický served.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u253	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 169. 185 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 41, against 117. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u254	It is also B9, which is CZK 500 million for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs at the expense of the state debt and the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes. She served a colleague named Semelová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u255	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 170. 185 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 37, against 125. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u256	It is also a B10, which is Mr Fiedler's amendment, the restoration of the cultural monument, 16 million 75 thousand. It's from the Office of the Government for the benefit of the VPS.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u257	Thank you. The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 171. 178 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 58, against 73. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u258	It is also the amendment of Mr Fiedler, CZK 12 million, in favour of the Ministry of Transport against the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u259	The Minister's position? [[B11 okay? Disagree.]] I just accidentally pressed another button and checked you out, so I'm gonna ask you to re-enlist with your cards. I'm sorry again. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 172. 177 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 18, against 91. This proposal was rejected. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u260	It is also a proposal by Mr Fiedler, CZK 10 million for the Ministry of Transport against the Office of the Government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u261	The designation of this amendment?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u262	B12.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u263	Thank you. The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 173. 178 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 18, against 95. The motion was denied. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u264	It is also 13, colleague Fiedler, CZK 6 million for the Ministry of Transport from the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u265	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 174. 178 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 12, against 94. We're good to go. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u266	It is also B, also Mr. colleague Fiedler, CZK 3 million for the chapter of the Ministry of Transport from the Office of the Government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u267	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 175. 178 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 19, against 92. The motion was not accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u268	B15, which is Mrs Nina Nováková's amendment, 112 million 847 thousand for the chapter of the Ministry of Culture at the expense of state debt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u269	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 176. 178 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 67, against 86. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u270	Furthermore, it is Amendment B16 by Vice-President Bělobrádek. It is CZK 100 million for universities at the expense of the Office of the Government, Grant Agency, Technological Agency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u271	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 177. 178 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 174, against no one. The proposal has been approved. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u272	B17, Mrs Adamová's amendment. It's 945 thousand. for the chapter of the Ministry of Education at the expense of the Office of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u273	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 178, 178 Members and Members, in favour of proposal 37, against 109, are entered. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u274	B18, also Mrs Adamová's amendment, 1,500 thousand. CZK from the Office of the President of the Republic for the Chapter of Education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u275	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 179, 178 Members and Members, in favour of proposal 36, against 111, are entered. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u276	B19 is also Mrs Adamová's amendment. It is a transfer within the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs 227 miles. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u277	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 180, 178 Members and Members have entered, for proposal 54, against 91. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u278	B20, transfer within chapter of Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, 600 million. Kroner, Mrs. Hnyková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u279	I'm sorry. I'll ask you to bear with me. President Stanjura wants to carry out a vote check before we go any further. [[It's happening.]] The Prime Minister is reporting for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u280	Thank you for the floor. I would like to object. I voted in favour, and I have a cross on high. At B19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u281	You're objecting. You want to repeat the vote. [[Agreed.]] Okay. First, I will vote on your objection. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the objection raised to the vote on Amendment B19 to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 181, registered 178 Members, for 171, against none. The opposition has been agreed and we will repeat the vote. For the record, I will ask you, rapporteur, to repeat what we will be voting on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u282	Yes. This is B19, Mrs Adamová, a transfer within the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs 227 miles. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u283	Thank you. Please, Minister, repeat your position once again. [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 182 is signed by 178 Members, for proposal 74, against 88. This proposal was rejected. Please, rapporteur, we can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u284	B20, Mrs Hnyková, transfer within the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, 600 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u285	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 183, 178 Members of Parliament have entered, in favour of proposal 68, against 85. [[according to Table 69]] The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u286	B21, colleague Hnyková, transfer from state debt to Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs 600 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u287	Thank you. The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 184, 178 Members of Parliament have entered, in favour of proposal 78, against 87. The motion was denied. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u288	B22, Mrs Putnová's amendment. It's 100 miles. CZK for the Ministry of Education at the expense of the administration of state debt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u289	Thank you. The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 185 is signed by 178 Members, for proposal 73, against 87. The motion was denied. Please, we can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u290	B23, Mr Černoch's amendment. It's 7,500 thousand. CZK to increase government budget reserve from the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u291	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 186, 178 Members and Members have entered, in favour of proposal 18, against 111. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u292	B24, colleague Lank, 900 miles. CZK for the Ministry of the Interior at the expense of operating the state debt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u293	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 187, 178 Members and Members have entered, in favour of proposal 35, against 88. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u294	B25 is Mr Kaňkovský's amendment, but he has already been voted, so if he has no objection... It's exactly identical, the same, so I'd consider it unvoting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u295	Does anyone object to the procedure? I can't see. In that case, the proposal is unvoting and we move on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u296	Furthermore, B26, Mr Zemek's amendment within the Ministry of Environment 10 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u297	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 188, 178 Members of Parliament have entered, in favour of proposal 63, against 87. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u298	B27, Mr Grospič's amendment, 100 million. CZK for the Ministry of Transport at the expense of the administration of the state debt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u299	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 189, with 178 Members registered, for proposal 64, against 92. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u300	Furthermore, it is Amendment B28. It is Mrs Zelienková's amendment and concerns the prison in Uherské Hradiště - 100 miles. CZK and it is in two variants, so we would vote on variants - variant one, variant two. So variant one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u301	Variant one. The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? Voting with order number 190 is signed by 178 Members, for proposal 45, against 110. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u302	Variant two.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u303	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? Voting with order number 191, 178 Members of Parliament have entered, in favour of proposal 44, against 105. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u304	B29 - colleague Kučera, 100 million crowns in favour of the Ministry of Industry and Trade at the expense of the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u305	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? Voting with order number 192, 178 Members and Members have entered, in favour of proposal 31, against 114. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u306	B20 colleague Fischerová -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u307	I mean B30, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u308	B30. I'm sorry. B30 - colleague Fischerová, 300 million crowns. Those are the libraries.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u309	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? Voting with order number 193, 178 Members and Members, in favour of proposal 84, against 77, are entered. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u310	B31, I think it's unspeakable. It is the amendment of Mr Laudát. I have written that it is incorrectly stated that it is an item. This is an aggregate - a specific indicator. Unspeakable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u311	Unvoting. Okay. Well, in that case, we'll keep going.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u312	B32 - Mr Laudát's amendment, 375 million in favour of the Treasury Administration at the expense of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u313	The Ministry of Finance's opinion? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? Voting with order number 194 is signed by 178 Members, in favour of proposal 73, against 87. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u314	B33. This is an amendment only within the Ministry of Transport with zero amounts - Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u315	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? Voting with order number 195, 178 Members and Members have entered, in favour of proposal 63, against 93. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u316	B34 - colleague Laudát - 8.16 miles. under the Chapter of the Ministry of Transport in favour of the Railway Authority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u317	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? Voting with order number 196, 178 Members and Members, in favour of proposal 67, against 97, are entered. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u318	And we have the last two items. Amendment B35. He's a colleague of Vácha - 200 miles. CZK for the Ministry of Education at the expense of the administration of state debt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u319	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? Voting with order number 197 is signed by 178 Members, for proposal 78, against 83. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u320	And the last amendment - B36 to Mr Stanjura. It is in favour of operating state debt at the expense of a number of chapters - 30 billion 10 million crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u321	The President of Stanjura shall have priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u322	I firmly hope that you do not want to vote en bloc on this, Mr rapporteur. I didn't even think of that. The numbers are - every line of vote is marked separately, this is how it was submitted, it's 19 savings items, and each one separately, and I don't think we can vote on it at once, so please vote on a separate vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u323	So I understand you want to take the individual items, so we're going to vote on the individual items.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u324	Please, rapporteur, continue and conduct us through the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u325	The procedure is simple. We will vote on individual items. Okay. We will vote on the reduction of individual chapters, as I will read them, in favour of the administration of state debt. [[Min. Why don't we vote on the proposal?]] I'm not in charge, so if the Vice-President orders...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u326	The procedure was voted in the way that I have individual points listed here B36/1, B36/2. The way I see it is to vote on individual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u327	All right. So B36/1 - Government Office, 40 miles. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u328	The Ministry of Finance's opinion? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 198 is signed by 178 Members, for proposal 33, against 122. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u329	B36/2 - 20 miles. CZK at the expense of the Office of the Government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u330	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 199, 178 Members and Members, in favour of proposal 38, against 109, are entered. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u331	B36/3 - 150 miles. CZK from the Office of the Government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u332	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 200, 178 Members and Members have entered, in favour of proposal 41, against 111. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u333	B36/4 - 500 miles. CZK from the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u334	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It's a vote with order number 201. 178 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 36, against 116. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u335	B36/5 from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - a billion 300 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u336	Minister's opinion? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 202. 178 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 35, against 119. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u337	B36/6 from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - a billion 800 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u338	Minister's opinion? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 203. 178 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 32, against 120. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u339	B36/7 from the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - a billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u340	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 204. 178 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 36, against 119. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u341	B36/8 - 3 billion. from the environment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u342	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It's a vote with order number 205. 178 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 32, against 121. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u343	B36/9 - 200 miles. CZK from the Ministry of Regional Development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u344	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 206. 178 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 38, against 120. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u345	B36/10 from the Ministry of Regional Development - 100 mil. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u346	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote, asking who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 207. 178 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 32, against 123. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u347	B36/11 from the Ministry of Regional Development - 400 mil. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u348	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote, asking who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 208. 178 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 35, against 120. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u349	B36/12 - 500 miles. CZK from the Ministry of Industry and Trade.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u350	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote, asking who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It's a vote with order number 209. 178 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 36, against 120. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u351	B36/13 from the Ministry of Industry and Trade - 2 billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u352	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote, asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? Voting with order number 210. 178 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 46, against 116. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u353	B36/14 also from MPO - 10 billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u354	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 211. 178 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 35, against 118. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u355	B36/15 from the Ministry of Transport - 2 billion. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u356	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 212. 178 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 32, against 117. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u357	B36/16 from the Ministry of Agriculture - a billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u358	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote, asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? Voting with order number 213. 178 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 32, against 126. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u359	B36/17 from the Ministry of Agriculture - 5 billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u360	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? Voting with order number 214. 178 Members and Members are enrolled for proposal 31, against 126. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u361	And last draft, B36/18, from export support, General Treasury - 1 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u362	One billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u363	I have an unspeakable comment here. [[President: Do you have any comment that this is unvoting?]] This is an aggregate specific indicator. Unspeakable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u364	It's unvoting. Okay. In that case, we'll proceed to the next point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u365	We have exhausted all the amendments from second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u366	Okay. That's what we went through all the points under letter B, if I'm saying it right. [[Messenger. - Yes.]] We should now proceed to the vote on accompanying resolutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u367	We should vote on the law. [[- After the law.]] And then on the accompanying resolutions of the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u368	Okay. The President Kalousek shall report with priority rights. I'll hand over the meeting proceedings. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u369	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to keep you long with detailed justifications for why the TOP 09 cannot support the proposal for this budget. This is what I finally made of this place at first reading, when the House has already approved the balance and balance. I did so in videoconferencing, so I would like to refer with detailed justification and dismantle the structure of the budget, both fiscal and structural balances on the screen recording from the first reading, and possibly. on your website. However, allow me a few brief words to remind you why, from our point of view, this budget cannot be supported. [[18.00 hours]] If an impartial budgetman from the second part of the globe had come here today, which would have been completely unlearned about political relations in the Czech Republic, and would have looked at the ongoing balance of 2016 and the balance for 2017, which you are about to approve, he would have thought that the government of the Czech Republic would expect some significant environmental disaster, war conflict or failure of the banking system next year. It is difficult to look for other rational reasons to justify the view of the Minister and the President of so much praised surplus of November 2016 and the view of the planned deficit of 2017, although the government - and we agree with it - expects economic growth and higher incomes next year than this year. There is no rational reason for the budgetary policy to be responsible in such a dramatic way to increase the overall level of expenditure, even so that the government - and had the support of its government Members for this - has increased the projected spending limits by CZK 30 billion for next year, so that it has indeed secured the expenditure that you are about to approve without really knowing why, because there is no rational reason for the policy to be responsible. We hear from the government that the reasons are investment, security, education, science and research. But then when we look at the numbers, well, they're not, because the priorities are those budget items that grow faster, and those volumes that really fill out the budget deficit. When we look at why this government needs deficit funding, the fastest-growing items are not science and research, they are not investments, they are mainly the wage volume of incredible 30,000 new civil servants, of which thousands are officials, they are social benefits and they are non-investment subsidies to selected business groups, where therefore all residents in the Czech Republic, even those who are closing their restaurants today and are about to close their junk because of their already unbearable repression and regulation, so we will all contribute to those selected business groups that will be better off. Yes, those are the fastest growing items, those are the real priorities of your budget. That's what you need the deficit for. The Minister of Finance said that the next year's budget is a breakthrough from many aspects. Yes, from my point of view, it really is. It's groundbreaking from two points of view. It has never happened since 1990, when a government quite openly and unambiguously increases the number of its employees as strongly and quickly as your government. All governments have tried to say, at least in the past, when they haven't done it, that they are trying to make an austerity government and an austerity state in the area of wages that are from the budget. You were able to expand the army by 30,000, and logically, the citizen must ask what has improved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u370	Mr President, I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace so that we can finish this meeting in good order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u371	If you have employed 30,000 new civil servants, at the end of 2017, that number will be exceeded, really if it is thousands of officials, so has the level of government improved? Does the citizen really feel that he is served more willingly, faster, more efficiently, or is he just being bullied more? You say thousands of teachers had to be accepted. Well, it was your decision and your budget priority. Is this really balanced by increasing the quality of education in the Czech Republic? And this is how we can continue. Is it not by chance that we will suddenly pay 20 billion more per year for the same quality of public services without getting the extra quality as citizens? Well, that's the breakthrough. The second breakthrough is that after three quite good times, when the government, following the sharp deterioration of the structural balance in 2014, after all, came to its gradual improvement in 2015 and 2016. That's where we'll find a positive development. The structural balance in 2015 was better than it was in 2014, and will be better in 2016 than it was in 2015. Although we expect economic growth next year, there is a sharp deterioration in the structural balance without expecting environmental disaster, war conflict, systemic banking sector failure, and without actually spending the resources on those investments. No, you really only devote them to immediate consumption, which will not in any way serve the future competitiveness of the Czech Republic. It is a budget with undue and shamelessly high public and high taxpayers spending, and it is a budget which, by real and verifiable figures, condemns you from the untruth when you name its priorities. The numbers say something different than what you say when you're defending him. These are the fundamental reasons why this budget cannot be supported, however we understand that the country needs a budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u372	Thank you. This was Chairman TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek, who announced his speech before the final vote. Mr rapporteur, if I have taken the information correctly when managing the meeting, all amendments have been voted out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u373	Yes, they've been voted out. I would just like to take the liberty, Mr Vice-President, of voting on the State Budget Act as a whole, given the confusion that began with the amendments being voted on, so I would like to ask the President of the House to give legislation a very clear explanation of how the Committee on Budgets should proceed. Whether it is to sit as a guarantee committee after the second reading and discuss the amendments tabled at second reading and then how the rapporteur should behave in plenary - whether he is to express opinions or not to express opinions. Because I think there are different interpretations here. We came to one interpretation, I accepted it, although we never did this, even though we already had guarantee committees in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u374	Yes, rapporteur, I'm sure you have the right to speak at any time. I agree with you that this procedure has been applied for the first time, and I think it will also be the last time, because it reduces the rights of the rapporteur who is responsible for the House. Now, therefore, if all the amendments have been exhausted and no one is suggesting that perhaps his amendment was not, I can make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's draft Act on the State Budget for 2017 according to the House of Press 921 and with the Government's draft State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2017 as amended by the amendments approved in the Annex to this resolution." I've started voting 215, and I'm asking who's in favour. What's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 215. From the present 177 for 104, against 70. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. [[Let's hear it for the Coalition MPs.]] Even now that the law has been approved, we will vote on accompanying resolutions. Please, rapporteur, you may present individual accompanying resolutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u375	Yes, we will vote on accompanying resolutions, both from the budget committee resolution and then from the debate at second reading. Therefore, I would stick to the practice that we have introduced, and I would not make my recommendations. As regards the motion for a resolution from the Committee on Budgets, there were agreed opinions. So one step at a time. From the draft budget committee as such: (a) "The Chamber of Deputies recommends to the Government that, under the chapter of the State Budget 398, the General Treasury, under the heading of the Government Budget Reserve, should reserve funds up to 400 million for 2017. CZK, in order to cover any eligible liabilities, including additional costs from possible legal proceedings and late payment charges for regional cohesion councils in connection with the cessation of their activities.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u376	Okay, everybody understood. Now I'm going to ask for opinions because it's not the law as a whole, it's the proposal. Opinions are said on the proposal, neither the Minister nor the rapporteur gives a proposal for an opinion on the bill as a whole anymore. So, Mr President, that is the opinion of the Committee on Budgets. [[Rapporteur: the Committee's opinion was positive.]] Positive. Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting 216, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 216 from the presence of 176 for 44, against 71. This accompanying resolution was not approved. Another proposal, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u377	This is a proposal (b): 'Requests the Government, in agreement with regional representations, to submit a proposal to the Committee on Budgets by 1 March 2017 to address the legitimate commitments arising from previous decisions of the Regional Councils of the Cohesion Regions'. The opinion of the Committee on Budgets was positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u378	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting 217, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 217 of the 176 present for 164, against no one. This resolution has been approved. Please continue, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u379	Furthermore, the Committee on Budgets adopted a resolution on the accompanying resolution, on a proposal from the Economic Committee, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies recommends to the Government that it increase budgetary resources and concentrate individual resources for economic diplomacy'. The opinion of the Committee on Budgets was positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u380	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 218. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 218 from the presence of 176 for 146, against no one. This accompanying resolution has also been approved. Please continue, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u381	Furthermore, in its resolution on a proposal from the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, the Committee adopted the following two accompanying resolutions: (a) "The Chamber of Deputies supports the gradual increase in the expenditure of the Chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports intended primarily for predictable and transparent financing of regional education, as well as public schools, in order to ensure the stability of the education system and to improve the quality of education, and recommends that the Government take into account the above recommendations in the expenditure frameworks." The Committee's opinion was positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u382	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started the vote with order number 219. [[Objection in the O.R.]] Not yet. Sorry, it's already started. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 219 of the 176 present for 142, against no one. It's been approved. We can continue with the next one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u383	And the second accompanying resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies repeatedly draws attention to the low number of posts in the Technology Agency of the Czech Republic, which is dealt with by a high level of concluded employment agreements and labour agreements, and recommends that the Government address this situation by increasing the working positions.' [[without increasing the budget of the chapter]] The opinion of the Committee on Budgets was positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u384	Yes. Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I have begun voting number 220 and I ask who is in favour of this accompanying resolution. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 220 from the presence of 176 for 127, against 1. This too has been approved. Have we exhausted the accompanying resolutions, Mr rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u385	We have two accompanying resolutions from the second reading debate. It is the accompanying resolution of Mr Dolejš, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies recommends that the Government unite from 2018 state investment programmes aimed at developing regional education infrastructure budgeted in Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports and 398 of the General Treasury under Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports with adequate staffing and took into account the above recommendations in expenditure frameworks."
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u386	Opinion, Mr rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u387	That's just my position, and it's consistent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u388	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 221 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 221 of the 176 present for 36, against 74. The motion was not accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u389	The last one is Mr Klaška: "The Chamber of Deputies is asking the Government to transfer unused funds for investments in transport infrastructure up to 3.5 billion in January 2017. CZK to the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure for co-financing of second and third class communications, possibly. found the remaining amount in the State budget for 2017.'; My position is positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-07-ps2013-053-06-001-183.u390	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 222 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 222 of the 174 present for 148, against 1. This accompanying resolution has also been approved. Mr rapporteur, have we exhausted all the accompanying resolutions? [[Rapporteur: Yes, it is.]] Thank you. In that case, I thank the Minister of Finance and the Vice-President of the Government, the rapporteur, and I conclude point 183, the Government's bill on the state budget. We'll continue to deal with budgetary matters. Thank you, both the Minister of Finance and the rapporteur are in place. It's gonna be...
