ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u1	203. Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the Migration Crisis With a factual remark, I note Mr Mihola. I ask that Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka take his place at the rapporteur's table, who is excused from today, and the rapporteur. But since he's checking in with the facts, I'm asking him for a microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put forward a procedural proposal for the interruption of this point because of the announced absence of the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior, whose participation in the debate is very necessary. I propose suspension by Friday, February 12, 2016 by 9 o'clock. I informed the presidents of all the club members in advance about the reasons for the interruption and the new deadline and asked them to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u3	I thank you, and since this is a procedural proposal, I will put it to a vote without debate. But I see here with the priority right of Mr Stanjura, then Mr Kalousek and then Mr Fiala. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u4	Firstly, amendments may fall on this proposal under the Rules of Procedure, so I propose that we vote on the suspension of this point for five minutes. And I want to ask you, Madam Vice-President - you gave the floor to President Mihol on a factual point. The Rules of Procedure state that in a factual remark, the Member responds to the appearance of his predecessors. I wonder what speech President Mihola responded to with his procedural proposal. I don't think so! This is a classic abuse of factual comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u5	Mr. Ambassador, a procedural proposal is also considered to be a factual point of view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u6	Madam Vice-President, could you please quote to all of us what the law says, the Rules of Procedure, on a factual point? I'm just saying it can't be done. If he responded to anything else, two sentences, and he said, "That's why I'm giving a procedural proposal," he has some logic. And just don't simplify it like that! It's just not possible. No one's ever gotten off in the debate today. The only person who spoke in the debate was Prime Minister Sobotka, who complained that he did not have the floor, and was the first to be logged in, which was quite comical, but simply did not comply with President Mihola's Rules of Procedure, which means he did not comply with the law. Otherwise, tell me which performance he responded to. And I would ask for a quote from the relevant paragraph, a paragraph for all Members of the Chamber of Deputies not to shout at me like that, so that it's perfectly clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u7	Absolutely. To avoid delaying the negotiations, I will read it - but with priority rights, Mr Kalousek. I just have to find it. So please, you have room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u8	Thank you. I would be honored to give you room to search, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that these are days pregnant with inappropriate jokes, regardless of whether they are made in Tishnov or in the Chamber of Deputies. If the Prime Minister is not present on this point, there is the first Vice-President. There is relatively enough government members to allow the House, in the presence of the government, to lead a substantive debate on this undoubtedly political priority. Even if, for some reason, the Prime Minister's presence was really necessary, I would still understand that President Mihola will propose an interruption by tomorrow or by Thursday, because I assume that the Prime Minister has not left for the whole week. But we were talking here at the end of last week's approval of this point, how crucial this is a priority and that we cannot wait with it until the end of this meeting, and when we agreed on it, when we finally voted on it, Mr Mihola comes in and says: We have decided that this is not such a priority again and that it is enough until February 12th. This is indeed a joke not only with the Chamber of Deputies but also with the public. We insist that this is a fundamental priority, we insist that there is no reason not to discuss it today. And if the coalition believes that the presence of the Prime Minister is necessary - I have always thought that the institution of the First Deputy Prime Minister is in that government so that the First Vice-President can fully represent the Prime Minister when the Prime Minister can't, otherwise it doesn't make any sense afterwards. But if not only the Prime Minister can not, but also the First Vice-President of the Government, each for a slightly different reason, then let us interrupt this for a time strictly necessary, i.e. until tomorrow, which is my second amendment. President Stanjura has proposed for five minutes, and I suggest we stop for tomorrow to be the first point after lunch. And just translating on February 12 is in direct contrast to what we all said here last week! You make fun of yourself, then you make fun of us, and then you make fun of the public! But we really insist that this is a fundamental priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u9	Thank you, and just at this moment allow the citation of paragraph 60. 1 of the Rules of Procedure: The Member may refer to a factual remark which responds to the course of the debate. A procedural proposal relating to the way in which a item of the programme is discussed shall also be regarded as a factual remark. So many quotes. I'm now handing over the proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u10	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, now with priority rights outside the debate, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, President of the ODS Club. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u11	Thank you for reading that. Of course, I know this paragraph, and I want to ask who has already spoken in the debate. I don't think it's anyone. The first entry is Mr Sobotka, Prime Minister Sobotka, and look who, according to the House of Technicians and Legislation, is the first entry into the debate today. So no one has yet spoken in the debate, so I ask how President Mihola could have responded to the debate when the debate has not yet begun. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the ODS Club is wrong. I'll read you a tape screen that serves as a basis for opening this point. This item was dealt with on Thursday 21 January at the 39th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies when we interrupted the general debate. We are therefore in an adjourned general debate and continue to do so. [[A round of applause for Members of the ČSSD and YES 2011.]] Proposals have been tabled in the suspended debate and I will have them voted in the order that they have been submitted. Mr. President of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura again, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u13	Without wanting to go over the line, I'll use a Czech proverb that says, "I'm about a goat and you're about a wagon." But don't take it, Mr. Vice-President, I wouldn't call you that. I certainly wouldn't dare. I did not question the opening of the general debate. I'm asking who got off in it. That's two different things. I asked who got off in it, and you answered me: it was open. I'm the one who agrees with you. I didn't ask if it was open. I asked who spoke in the debate. And that's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u14	That's possible, of course, this question, but it doesn't affect the procedure we have here. Of course, I agree with your interpretation, and I also do not accept factual remarks that would respond to the debate. Something else was a procedural proposal pursuant to § 60 para. One, with whom he applied and also announced him at the College meeting at 10:00 p.m. Mr. Chairman Mihola responded so... I shall inform 200 Members of the progress of the meeting. That is what I think is fair, and that is why we knew that my colleague Mihola would report with a procedural proposal under Section 60 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 1. That's reality. [[15.40 hours]] So it's legitimate of my colleague Jermanová to give him her word so that he can make a procedural motion. Of course, the Chamber of Deputies will decide how we will proceed by voting. The Rules of Procedure do not distinguish, contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the former Federal Assembly, a factual and procedural application. Yes, in the former Rules of Procedure, both the Czech National Council and the Federal Assembly, there was such a difference, and MEPs also reported differently. Mr. Fiala, too, with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u15	Thank you. Before we proceed to the vote on individual proposals, I really want to call on the Chamber of Deputies not to support the proposal with which the President of the KDU-ČSL Mihola MP has spoken. There are many reasons for this. I also do not think that we could continue this debate if neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister of the Interior nor the Minister of Foreign Affairs are here. However, it is absolutely irresponsible to postpone this item to 12 February and I think that it is unacceptable for the Czech public as well. I'll just give you one argument. Yesterday there was an informal meeting of the Council of Interior Ministers at which, among other things, there was talk about adaptations to the Schengen system. In mid-February, the Commission is to submit an evaluation of the Schengen system and, for example, a revision of Article 26 of the Schengen Treaty, which allows the States to protect their own borders for a period of six months, is in play and is considered to extend the matter to two years. Greece is also excluded from the Schengen system. If this is discussed at the Council, the European Council in mid-February, this House and the Czech public have the right to know the positions of the Czech Government. February 12 is too late. What will the Czech Government take on the adjustment of the Schengen system? This is not just about Greece, it can be about us in the future. We can be expelled from the Schengen system for two years when the states around us restore internal borders. Do we want it? What is the position of the Czech Government? What will Prime Minister Sobotka stand for? Ladies and gentlemen, this House has voted to ask the Government to inform us of the positions it will take in the negotiations on the migration crisis and related security issues in the European institutions. We've got a situation here where we're gonna make decisions any day now. And we have a right to know. And you want to resign? I'm asking the members of the government coalition. Is this a reasonable attitude? I therefore propose an alternative proposal to continue this point immediately after Prime Minister Sobotka comes to the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u16	Yes, that is the fourth proposal that is made. We will therefore vote on the proposals as they have been submitted. First, interrupt this point by Friday 12. 2nd in 9 o'clock... The way they were administered. [[Members are debating the order of vote]] Please, Mr. Chairman. [[Stanjuro]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u17	As the author of this procedure in the last parliamentary term, when we resisted the attacks of social democracy, which were legitimately led from opposition benches, I found that paragraph which says - if a procedural proposal for a suspension of a meeting is made, another proposal may be made by the Member and that is voted first. We've used it many times in the last parliamentary term. Now, in this parliamentary term, social democracy has used this many times in particular as a defense against our attack from opposition benches. So I would like us to follow this rule and vote on those proposals from the fourth, third, second and quite finally the first. Otherwise, the defense wouldn't have any meaning. It was used by us against the opposition, it was used by today's government, today's coalition against the current opposition. It didn't change anything in the practice just by switching benches. Vice-President, I beg you to keep this up, because this is how it's always worked. Thank you. . [[Big noise in the hall]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u18	Okay. I'll take that as a conditional motion that you've come forward with. That can be reversed. Okay. I've started the vote. First, in reverse order. And that vote, serial number 83. We will vote on the motion by President Fiala. I'll check you out first. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Log in with your ID cards. We will vote on the proposal to continue following the Prime Minister's arrival in the Chamber of Deputies. I have begun the vote on order number 83. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 83, for 71, versus 58. The motion was not accepted. Now, the motion to interrupt one... yes, tomorrow after lunch break, okay? [[question from the hall]] My colleague Kalousek... I've started voting 84. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 84. Of the 153 Members, for 50, against 60. The motion was not accepted. Now, Mr Stanjura's proposal to interrupt for five minutes. The 85 vote I started. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 85. Of the 154 present, for 41 Member, against 72. The motion was not accepted. Now interrupt this point by Friday 12. 2 2016 to 9 o'clock. Voting 86, which I have begun. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 86. Of the present 155, for 79, against 43. The motion was accepted. I interrupt item Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the migration crisis, number 203 of this meeting, for a period of up to 12. 2nd in 9 o'clock. Also, among the points before we return to paragraph 57, Chairman TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman. . [[Big noise in the hall]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u19	Thank you. Of course, the vote is valid. So I have no choice but to say that the government coalition has decided to exclude the Chamber of Deputies from its historic decision-making, perhaps the most important in the last ten years and in the next ten years. You may say that you want to discuss this with us, but with this resolution you have decided to exclude the Chamber of Deputies from the decision-making process and to a large extent restrict its constitutional supervisory function. [[15.50 hours]] I believe that, for example, in the case of TOP 09, the government has little reason to believe that we do not want to seek constructive access and constructive agreement with you on this issue. However, the extent of your arrogance with which you exclude the Chamber of Deputies from the decision-making process will undoubtedly mark to a large extent our progress and our willingness to have a very fundamental debate if it ever occurs. It's extremely offensive on your part. And you're insulting not only us, but you're insulting yourself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u20	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr Sklenák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u21	Mr Kalousek, through Madam Vice-President, no one has ruled out the House. It was voted on procedural proposals and the House, respectively. Its majority, it's decided. There have been cases in the past where the House has been eliminated, but that is not today. I remember, for example, how this House clearly opposed the recognition of Kosovo as a sovereign state, and it was you and your minister who did the opposite.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u22	Thank you. Now, please, with Mr Stanjura's priority right, Mr Černoch will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u23	So President Sklenák gave a touching speech, as usual, back about 2010, because I've been here since 2010 and over the past six years Kosovo hasn't been discussed, so you're talking about something you don't have a personal experience about, but why not, you're the masters of that. I want to remind you of something else. In February 2015, this House and your votes, because the opposition logically has fewer of them, approved a resolution by which it ordered the Government to regularly inform the Chamber of Deputies on the position of the Czech Government on migration and related issues. How many times did you come up with this? Not once! It's been a year. Not once! You're afraid of the debate, you're always in the corner, so you're gonna throw us something here, preferably on Thursday night, so no one can see it, and we'll stop it. Why are you so afraid of this debate? You didn't even come up with the resolution! Is this contempt for the Chamber of Deputies or not? Answer each and every one of you who voted in favour of this resolution as I did. The government doesn't give a shit about us! You may not mind, because it's your government, but I don't understand it at all. Is there a bigger problem today, yesterday, a month ago, unfortunately tomorrow, in a week, in a month that worries the Czech public? Do you know the bigger problem? If you answer honestly, you'll say no, that's the biggest problem our public is worried about. And rightly afraid of him. And your answer? We're not discussing this. Nope. Yeah, we got help from KDU colleagues last week. Apparently, they got a coalition brush, changed their minds today. Or they changed their minds yesterday. And I should have appreciated the kindness that it would be on Friday, February 12th. You're making fun of the citizens of the Czech Republic. That's all you do! Why are you so afraid of this? What is more important than debating migration, such as Schengen? What's the Prime Minister doing there in mid-February, which could be February 15th? On the 12th here in plenary, will we form a resolution and mandate for the Czech Government? You believe that? We don't. You want to bypass the House again, which means you want to bypass the public. Nothing else. And then you say, "We were probably against it, but the quotas, you know, they forced them on us." If you could stop them, you didn't stop them. And now it's gonna be the same thing. I do not know why you do not want the mandate of the Chamber of Deputies. I think we have a common view of the Schengen area. You are simply afraid to talk about it because it is more important for you to tap Brussels bureaucrats than to acknowledge the Czech public!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u24	Thank you. I'm registering several applications with priority rights. First to the microphone of Mr Černoch, then Mr Mihola and then Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u25	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Through you, a colleague of Sklenák. Whoever ever doesn't care. Now it's a crisis, you're in the government, and it's your responsibility. And you don't comply with the resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u26	Thank you. Mr Mihola's microphone, Mr Kalousek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u27	Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask, in particular, my colleagues from the opposition benches to leave - and especially from the ODS and TOP 09 - the cheap moralism here. [[There are screams from the right.]] It's very unfair, it's interesting, first of all, we were debating that in a variable week that special point would be placed. That was the beginning of the debate. That it happened to have been classified earlier is another matter. But take a good look at the records of our press conference. We talked about a variable week, so there's no shift in that sense. You were the ones who talked about undignified times, we want to respect the respect of opposition windows and so on, and you know it. That's why I've dealt with each of you, every club president. Mr Kalousek, now Chairman of the TOP 09 club, I did not communicate with this, but with the chairman of the club František Laudát, but the President of the TOP 09 recently stated in one of the interviews how satisfied he is with the Prime Minister's position and the solution to migration and that he actually supports - now I feel like he is completely denying his words and feels like there is a fire, like nothing at all, and a similar hysterical reaction is triggering here. I really don't get it. So, really, as far as you're concerned, let's admit that in a variable week it was arranged, in a variable week it's promised, it's going to be all day, it's not going to pass with any other promised points, and we're going to do what we want to do to strengthen the Prime Minister at the European Council meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, it is sitting on Thursday 18th and Friday 19th February, so we will be very well prepared and those who have not been able to comment on our prepared resolution, which is in the system, apart from the TOP 09, which I have already thanked for, have the opportunity to prepare for it properly, so that we can really strengthen as much as possible for this important meeting and meeting of the Prime Minister and the meeting of the Prime Minister and be properly prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u28	I thank you, and now please, with Mr Kalousek's priority right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u29	Thank you. I'm just briefly about Mr. Sklenák's reminiscence. When, as you go into such history to recognise Kosovo, for which I did not vote as a member of the government, but that is not important today, for example, all ministers voted for them for the Green Party, take it up with the Stropnický, the TOP 09 did not exist at the time, so please don't point to our benches and don't say "it was you." Above all, what Mr Černoch said is true. Now we have a problem and we want to discuss it. And, President Mihola, through Madam President, this is not cheap moralism. I have not changed anything about our efforts to find constructive consensus with the government on this key issue, but I simply insist that this point is more important than all the other points in this House, that it is simply the problem that the public lives on, which we communicate with the public today and daily, which we are discussing today and daily. It is simply the strongest topic at this point and it will be difficult to tell us in public: we first need to discuss tobacco products, because the coalition believes that this is a much more important topic than immigration. I think that not just us, but the public, too, would like to take a joint position. And once again, the government has little reason to believe that TOP 09 is not trying to find a common position with you. But you don't want them. You just don't want to discuss it. On the 12th. First the tobacco products, they're more important. That's what irritates me about it. That is what is offensive, and I believe that it is offensive not only to this House, but also to the public.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u30	Thank you. President of ODS Petr Fiala. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u31	So I guess no one can suspect me of supporting Prime Minister Sobotka's policy and this government in the matter of the migration crisis, but I think that the public, too, but even you who want to support it, have the right to know what Prime Minister Sobotka or other ministers who will discuss it will commit themselves to, or what they will agree to, or what they will promote in the course of the European institutions' negotiations. I don't think you care a bit. [[16.00 hours]] And I do not accept the argument that President Mihola here said that the European Council meeting is 18. 2, so all we have to do is talk about it 12. 2. It is not enough, among other things, because the Prime Minister, and I am listening well to him, has declared that he will seek the common position of the Visegrad countries that will be held, the negotiations, sometime in the middle of February. So we will have a common position on which the Prime Minister will commit himself to discussing the premieres of the Visegrad Four States, then we will find out about it here in Parliament. I also want the Prime Minister to hear from the opposition, from the Civil Democratic Party, that we do not like the procedure that the European Union is electing to deal with the European crisis, that we do not want the Czech Republic to commit to this. But we want to hear from the Prime Minister what he's going with. After all, the Schengen system is one of the essential things on which European cooperation, the European Union, is based today. If it is to change, if it is to change so that states can close their borders for two years, then we have the right to know what the Czech Government's opinion is and what it will promote in the negotiations. I will always learn from the Prime Minister: we will negotiate, we will have some negotiations on this and this - but I will not know what the Czech Republic stands for there, what the position of the Czech Government will be. It was you, ladies and gentlemen, as the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, who said: we want the government to inform us about this before the positions take place. I don't understand why you're resigning now. And by the way, when we're talking about when the negotiations are going on and when the negotiations are going on, I'm gonna remind you of one more thing. It is never a government coalition, it is never a government coalition that is debating key foreign policy issues in the Chamber of Deputies. It is never a government coalition that is actively debating migration in the Chamber of Deputies. It's always the pressure of the opposition. So don't tell us you're interested in discussing this. You're not interested in discussing this, and you're confirming it every step of the way. And, by the way, the fact that the Prime Minister isn't here today when we approved on Thursday or when the point at 3:30 is that we're going to continue the migration negotiations, that's also weird. The Prime Minister sat here and didn't know that? He couldn't tell us? Couldn't we have moved it one day when you had such good will to discuss it? No, ladies and gentlemen, members of the government coalition, you are trying not to talk about migration, not to have the government confessing and not to tell the citizens what they will commit us to in the negotiations at the European institutions. And that is a bad attitude because you risk the security and sovereignty of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u32	Now, please, with Mr Laudát's priority right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u33	Thank you, only with technical assistance to my colleague Sklenák. The issue of Kosovo after the government, as it has the right, recognised Kosovo, has been discussed here. Since I've been strongly opposed to the recognition of Kosovo, I remember. I'd rather somebody didn't point at me. Since then, I have been looking forward to quite a bit of respect for this step, at the time, at the Serbian community in Prague, or at the people who live here. First of all. Secondly, so that someone here doesn't get the impression that I may have agreed with my colleague Mihola yesterday to interrupt that point. I just said it's your decision, you have most of it. You did it, it's just not a priority for you. Here, the Social Democrats, specifically the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary, were surprised, not recovered, did not say, did not ask, and then they boarded a colleague, Mihola, that perhaps he was crazy or something, and let him be the rapporteur, the point, someone else, that neither the Prime Minister nor the Interior Minister would be. That's all. It's not a priority for you. For you, the priority is a bakelite box or something. That's right, unfortunately. If you had a mandate from Parliament, it would be all the better if you were in Brussels, around Schengen, about other measures, agreements, or some financial claims. You're against each other and you're deceiving the public. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u34	Thank you and please now with the priority right of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u35	Thank you. I wish you a good afternoon. When I registered this debate, I thought I had something to say about it, too, because I would like to assure you that I am prepared to discuss all the issues relating to migration and foreign policy, and I am prepared to discuss it on committees, and I am prepared to discuss it here in the House. I think it's actually just a matter of making a reasonable arrangement. As I recall, we had this item here last week, the Prime Minister got off here, I think we gave it two hours or how long. I got to the word for two minutes, which made me a little sad, because when we had a point, I wanted to talk about it longer, of course. And I'm happy to take advantage of any opportunity most of the House can agree on. I think it's nonsense if it's said that the government doesn't have it as a priority. We don't live in a greenhouse. We are well aware that this is a matter that is extremely interested in the public, and we do it all the time. I could give you points from yesterday's government meeting, which actually directly concerned the migration crisis, and, of course, when we do such things in the government, we are ready to inform the House. For me, the crucial thing is that the Prime Minister - and I know about it - informs the committee responsible before every meeting of the Council, and I think he never did anything to neglect it. I can assure you that the government is also thinking about giving information before the next European Council meeting about the situation before the Council. The situation is constantly evolving and changing. You know that there are proposals from the European Commission, there is a debate going on in Europe. I myself will visit Turkey, Greece, Macedonia and other countries in the next few days to see what the situation looks like right in those places, and I suppose then, if it's 12. 2. I will also be able to inform on how I will familiarize myself with the situation in those countries. So I assure you here that it is absolutely essential in the government that we must inform the House of these matters and that we must also inform it of what we intend to defend on the relevant European Councils. Otherwise, I'd appeal to one thing at a time. It seems to me that what is most important today is perhaps what has just been said on the Davos forum. There the most frequented word that was repeated there was the word sustainability. And sustainability was meant not only to the environment, but to the sustainability of the civilization in which we live. What is most at stake is that we can keep civilization, the way of life and what we are in today and what we live here, and that includes a certain political culture. It seems to me that the struggle for political culture, the ability to hold a debate, even between the coalition and the opposition, is part of the struggle that we are having here. So it's not just about migration, it's about civilization. This is a match that I believe is also related to 2016. And I assure you that there is enough in the government to know that it is our duty to have a conversation about these fundamental things. I assure you for myself - and I know that the Prime Minister and other members of the government feel the same way. So I would argue that we respect - I respect the decision of most of this House, but I assure you that I am ready to address the topic of migration next time in the space that the House will allow me to do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u36	Thank you and just a heads-up for the other Members who report with factual remarks. I cannot allow factual remarks, we are among the points, so therefore only the priority rights, with which I am asking for the microphone of Mr Kalousek. Mr Laudát will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u37	Thank you for the floor. Forgive me, Minister, it was quite nice to hear, but it is quite hard to believe after the House voted to do so on 12 February, and it is now on 26 January. That's long enough. And I just don't believe that if the Foreign Minister turned his weight to his fellow members from the government coalition and said, "Don't be crazy, I really think it's a priority, and it's part of the political culture to discuss it with the House, that we haven't found a more reasonable term than in more than 14 days. So my confidence in the government's efforts to hold a constructive debate with us is significantly undermined after this coalition vote. I am sorry all the more that - I am sorry, I will repeat this for the third time - the government has very little reason to believe that the TOP 09 is not trying to find a constructive position with the government on this issue, but you are telling us by this vote: we do not want it. [[16.10 hours]] We don't want to talk to you about this at all. We'll tell you something here on the 12th and do whatever you want with it. Maybe we'll agree with that, but maybe we won't, and maybe we'll be able to improve your position in the middle of the Visegrad Four, because we don't want you to be diametrically different. We want it to be the best and most effective for the Czech Republic, and we have offered you several times our diplomatic skills and our weight in the European People's Party, which we have. And you just say to us, "We don't want to do this, because we won't talk to you about it until the 12th." That's what... Then it is hard to hear the words about political culture and helpfulness with us to have this discussion, because you said to us: we do not want it. That's what you can't not respond to, what you can't take for insulting, and what's a clear signal from the public that it's just not a priority for you. Because if it was a priority for you, you'd have to find time before February 12th.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u38	That was Mr. Chairman TOP 09, Mr. Miroslav Kalousek. Now with priority right the chairman of the TOP 09 Club František Laudát. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u39	I've only had a short time. Thank you for the floor. First, it's a little weird when the Foreign Minister votes for the interruption first, and then he comes here to explain something. I think it'd be better to keep quiet. Two. We are aware that discussions on this issue could spread out, as we did last time, so we were willing to and we proposed that we should try to negotiate a consensus so that the representatives of the clubs and, where appropriate, the party chairmen present their essential positions, and that it does not get sprung up and that we adopt some resolutions. That didn't happen. Unfortunately, it's not a priority for you. And don't lie to the public or deceive her otherwise. You just interrupted the point, so you interrupted it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-26-ps2013-039-04-002-203.u40	So it was František Laudát. So we can go back to the point
