ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u1	48. Government bill amending Act No. 119/2002 Coll., on Firearms and Firearms (Gunarms Act), as amended, and other related laws /German press 677/ - First Reading I ask the Home Secretary to present this press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me, on the basis of the Government's mandate, present the Government's proposal for an amendment to the arms law and other related laws. Immediately after the tragic events in Vrbětice and Uherské Brod, the government promised the citizens of the Czech Republic that it would properly evaluate these events and make legislative changes that would result from this evaluation as necessary for the clarification and amendment of the legislative framework of the Czech Republic. The bill responds to the shortcomings of today's legislation, which have been analysed and which need to be changed from our point of view. Following events in Vrbětice, the handling of ammunition by civil entities is newly regulated. The experience of this tragedy and the tragedy in Uherské Brod has led to changes regarding the medical fitness of holders of arms certificates and the strengthening of the police's powers, where, in justified cases, police can hold the weapon to its holder until it is established that it is fit to hold the weapon. The regulation on the handling of ammunition will be set aside in a separate regulation under the Firearms Act. There will be the introduction of separate ammunition certificates and licences. Their holders will have to meet stricter conditions and also fulfil stricter obligations and criteria than the holders of arms certificates and licences. The storage of ammunition and its conditions of use are being modified completely. However, this regulation will require the adoption of extensive implementing legislation for its full functionality. In addition, proficiency tests will have to be prepared for applicants for ammunition certificates and a new ammunition record module in the central weapons register. For these reasons, an annual delay in its effectiveness is proposed for amendments to the legislation on the handling of ammunition. Changes to other legislation contained in this proposal, namely the Fire Protection Act, the Trade Act, the Act on the Management of Safety Materials, the Act on pyrotechnics and the Act on Administrative Charges, are also related to the new regulation on the handling of ammunition. The proposed proposal is linked to a separate amendment of the Mining Act, explosives and the State Mining Administration, which was prepared by the Czech Mining Authority and which is currently being discussed at the premises of the Chamber of Deputies. The second course of amendments to the Arms Act is to allow for more effective controls on holders of arms certificates. In the context of these changes, the health control capability of holders of arms certificates, including their mental health, is increased in particular. The proposed system should respond targetedly to the health problems of arms holders and should, among other things, carry out psychostases more effectively and across the board, which are currently not implemented at the level that we believe is necessary. In addition, a police authorisation is introduced to pre-detain weapons, including in the event of reasonable doubt as to the medical fitness of their holders. The proposal also reduces the duration of the arms licence from ten to five years. These amendments need to be put into practice as soon as possible, so the proposal envisages their effectiveness on the 15th day following its publication. Thank you for your attention. I look forward to a debate that will certainly be rich. The purpose of this amendment is not to punish the proper citizens who acquire a weapon in the framework of the legislation in force. We still think that we need to fight against illegal weapons in the first place. This amendment specifies and regulates the possibilities of the State for better enforcement of law in this area as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u3	Thank you, Minister. Before I give the rapporteur the floor, I will read the apologies. Mr Mihola from 19.15 to the end of the meeting for working reasons, Mr Kudela from 19.40 until the end of the meeting day and Mr Vyzula from 19.15 until the end of the meeting day for family reasons. So many more apologies. I will now ask the rapporteur, Mr Roman Váňa, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it must be said that the Czech Republic has a very strict law on weapons and ammunition, of high quality, in terms of both the rights and obligations of citizens who are legal holders of arms. What this amendment brings and what is very important is indeed a detailed regulation on the handling of ammunition for civilians, whether legal or physical. This is a matter that has not yet been so comprehensively addressed and has been considered in the context of the handling of ammunition. So now we're going to divide these two parts. Gunfire, which is considered ammunition for small arms for legal arms holders, and ammunition, which will have a more detailed description and stricter regime, so that the disaster that happened in Vrbětice cannot be repeated. This is therefore a direct consequence of legislative scrutiny after this event. Similarly, after the event in Uherské Brod, there is a certain tightening, in particular, of the medical fitness of holders and applicants for an arms licence. There's a new thing that hasn't been and couldn't have been, because there hasn't been a central weapons registry until recently. There will be an opportunity for doctors to enter this register and see if the patient is or is not a possession of an arms license and, therefore, whether his or her medical condition may be at risk. It must be said that this is an option, not an obligation, because, of course, the patient's trust in a doctor is a very important factor, and the doctor himself has to assess whether or not he will take this step. Other things that will be dealt with under this law. This is a reduction in the validity of the arms licence to five years. It is, of course, one of the options which is also considered in the proposal in the explanatory memorandum that the validity of the arms licence would not be reduced, but only there was a higher frequency of medical examinations for the holder of the licence for five years, with the licence valid for ten years, however, the petitioners considered that there might be a relatively large number of omissions to document the new health inspection and thus, paradoxically, the citizens would lose their rights to hold and carry the gun and would therefore be somewhat disadvantaged. This concludes the validity of the arms licence, the medical examination and, for several hundred crowns, you will be issued a new arms licence, so this solution also seems to be more advantageous for the holders of the arms licence than to distribute the validity of the arms licence and the validity of the medical examination for other periods. There is certainly a great deal of opportunity to debate this law, but it must be said that it is only a safety clarification and improvement of the existing very good law, and that - as the Minister said and thank him for this - it is in no way a restriction on legal holders of weapons, who are an important element of the security of the Czech Republic. This is certainly out of the question of the amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening the debate and I have three applications so far. The first is Mr Seďa, then Mrs Černochová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear members of the government, esteemed colleagues, as has been said, following events in Vrbetice, the petitioners set out the task of preparing a clear legal regime for the handling of ammunition by civilian entities in our territory and, at the same time, in connection with the tragic event in Uherský Brod, the task of the proposal to make the system of verification more effective and also the enforcement of medical fitness requirements for holders of arms certificates more effective. The amendment to the Act should therefore also apply to the handling of ammunition and the carrying out of pyrotechnic surveys. Title III is therefore added. The types of weapons and ammunition are defined in Annex 1 to this Act. Paragraph 42b is added in the case of the transfer of ownership of arms, ammunition and ammunition to another entity, and Section 50b is added in the course of transport of arms and ammunition. [[19.40 hours]] As the rapporteur mentioned here, the term of validity of the arms licence is reduced from 10 to 5 years, as the duration of the medical assessment is reduced. I support the reduction in the validity of medical fitness, but the period of validity of the gun licence for 5 years is somewhat meaningless. When extending the validity of an arms licence, the holder shall supply a medical certificate and submit for inspection all the weapons he has registered. The original extension of the arms licence from 5 to 10 years carried out in the past was introduced mainly with regard to the reduction of administration. In doing so, the obligation of the holder to report changes to the police of the Czech Republic was maintained. From this point of view, even from the proposed amendments to the law, leaving the arms licence valid for 10 years would not have made security worse and would not have increased the costs of the necessary administration. The change would consist only in the fact that the holder of the arms licence would provide a new medical opinion in the middle of its validity, thereby demonstrating that he could hold the arms licence for another five years, unless the doctor has limited the validity of the report for a shorter period. I therefore ask the Minister to consider the possibility of this adjustment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Please, Mrs Černochová, and Mr Koskuba will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. I thank my colleague Sed for the performance, because I agree with everything he's said here. You may still remember how I warmed up here, about two months ago, it was some time before the Christmas holidays, because of the European Commission directive, and I pointed out that after the tragic event that took place in Paris, the European Commission is proposing to go in exactly the opposite direction than it should, and tightens up the arms legislation. Of course, we all know that the events in Uherské Brod were a huge tragedy. But I'm afraid this restriction on gun holders is not the solution to facing crazy shooters, people who, for some reason, are capable of doing something like that. Here I'd like to give an example of what we also remember, and it's not so ancient a past, what happened in the Highlands, when that crazy lady stabbed a boy. I suppose we do not want to go the same way as in the UK, that we will ban all knives, or in Germany where you must not have, I suspect that you may go up to 16 cm, over 16 cm of blade you must not move freely around the German Federal Republic. And the Brit even made it so far that the Brit, if you're going to buy a cutlery, a cutlery to someone as a wedding gift, even plastic cutlery, prove your identity. I am aware that the situation in Uherské Brod has shaken all of us, but I think that the real weapons restriction is the last thing we should be dealing with right now. You read the newspapers, you read the news, you are aware that, on the contrary, countries that, from a foreign policy point of view, we can take for our allies, countries like Israel, are going in exactly the opposite direction, because it is Israel that has experience of people who are civilian and are holders of arms clearance and are moving down the street where they can just meet some crazy shooter, terrorist, so these people are ready to intervene. We can ask ourselves a question which none of us will know the answer to: What would have happened in Uherské Brod, if any of the people who were in that restaurant were holders of an arms license and had the gun on them? Whether there'd be such a tragedy or not. I really don't think it's a good time at this point to limit the holders of weapons licenses. I completely agree with what the Minister and rapporteur Váňa have said here about the legislation on ammunition, ammunition and those things that have done so much damage in Vrbetice. There I think this part of the law is perfectly fine. But I would very much advocate that we have that part of this standard that restricts the holders of the weapon so that we do not negotiate to keep the existing text. I think it is also very controversial, and it will certainly be subject to discussion on the Committee on Security, this new authorisation for the Police of the Czech Republic, when the Police of the Czech Republic will be able to provisionally detain and enter the apartment. We're actually breaking the constitutional law here within the housing. And I would very much like to know from the Minister -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u9	I ask for peace, first of all, and second of all, so that the Minister is not disturbed so that he can listen to the arguments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u10	Thank you. I'd like to ask the Minister about the entrance to the residence and the possibility of pre-loading the weapon. I understand that with category A weapons, where there is something like that in the current arrangement today. But there's a real breach of constitutional law here, and I'm very sensitive about it. We were talking a little while ago about those neighbourly relationships that could disrupt or are disturbed by some things that concern property matters, we discussed it with the property confession. And here we all know that, of course, in the Czech Republic, individual neighbors can settle their neighborhood accounts by handing someone a statement. I would really like to be assured of how these police will proceed in these cases, whether the state's attorney's consent will be here, how the process will practically take place, because the existing legislation allows this police under the law on police, and I do not know whether we are to treat it explicitly again in any other way in the new law or in the amended law, and to intervene in the freedom of dwellings. I'd really like to ask the Minister to give me a brief answer today, if there is any implementation already, if there is any implementing regulation available, so that we can get him as members of the Security Committee. Another thing that is mentioned here by Mr. Váňa. You know, the proposal would leave me a 10-year arms pass and, after five years, prove a new health assessment, the proposal would not have been Seďa to defend the 10 years without further, if it were any compromise that would have been agreed, I would have been willing to accept that compromise. But here I would just point out that you could treat the call or the warning that this deadline is just before the "payment" is some kind of paid service. The register is here. Why can't we make a fee for me as the holder of the arms card to pay a fee to the Police of the Czech Republic, of course, to the Ministry of the Interior, that I will receive a text message from them? We have data boxes, it can come into the data box, it can come in the mail. That they would simply not, in order to avoid what Mr Váňa warned about, that actually the holders of arms certificates would be warned in advance that they would be terminated within a month if they did not provide a new medical certificate. I think it's just about some will that might be at the Home Office, and it could be a fee. There are two things that bothers me about this proposal to shorten the term of the gun licence. One thing is that, five years ago, when the armory went up to flight ten, we raised the administrative fee, stating that they had it for longer, so that means we could make it more expensive. We don't keep it cheap anymore. I understand inflation and so on, but it doesn't seem entirely fair. [[19.50 hours]] And most importantly, my dear colleagues, I don't know which one of you has ever been to any shooting range or has a gun license, it doesn't matter, but surely those of you who are some fans of these sports, so you know what it takes to secure those weapons in the transport of the Czech Police, when you go to show those weapons, and yes, there are people in the Czech Republic who have five, ten, twenty weapons. And of course, the law describes how the weapons are to be secured, where they can be transported, but not everywhere on all the police maids, Minister, it is possible to park the car so that you park in front of the maid and just remove the weapons and you don't have to deal with the logistics of three other people who must also have a gun license, it can't just be your friends waiting for you to show it to the police for a while. So I think that by cutting back to five years, we would have gotten back into this problem that after five years, we would be burdening the Police of the Czech Republic with these weapons checks. Here I really think the law is sufficient in this and there's no need to tighten it up. Let's really tighten up legislation on ammunition, ammunition, there I think it's out of the question. But about tightening up the weapons license holders and the conditions for them to have the weapons, I'd ask too much here to discuss it. And I'm saying in advance that I think - perhaps I can speak for the entire civil democrat club - that we certainly won't be able to cut the deadline. Thank you very much for your attention and I would like to ask the Minister if he could just briefly tell me if there is an implementing regulation, or if there is already an implementing regulation, about the police entering the residence in case of suspicion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u11	Now I have two factual points. First Mr Holík, then Mr Tejc. And before Mr. Holík arrives, I'll read the apologies. Mr Vácha between 19.30 and 21 pm for personal reasons, Mr Petr Adam until the end of the negotiations without giving any reason and Mr Gabrhel from 19.30 to the end of the negotiations. Please, Ambassador, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm from the Zlín Region, and I've got a few miles to Vrbětice. My office is in Uherské Brod, and there's been an unfortunate mass murder about 200 meters since that office. I've been in possession of a weapons license for about 20 years, and I'm basically using the gun only on the range. I didn't even use it the moment I had it with me and I was attacked by a Rotvailer. For this reason, I underline, through the President, the words of my colleague Černochová - we do not restrict our people in the possession of weapons. Let us tighten the conditions for those holding ammo, tighten the conditions for medical examinations, but do not restrict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u13	I beg Mr Tejc and Mr Okamura after him, also factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I completely understand Mrs Černochová, because we are certainly all concerned that the possibility of the police or anyone else entering the residence should not be abused. I would say that I am much more concerned, and I will deal with this, the possibility of executors entering the third person's residence, in which the debtor is only staying without that person being present. But I don't want to run off and get back to the situation. I think if for example. In Uherské Brod, the police already had the option, which is proposed in the law, so if the suspect could ask the person, he could ask her to issue a weapon, and if she didn't issue a gun, he could, for example. When examining the dwelling, find the weapon, carry it away, and then the proceedings would take place. The problem is practically that if for example. The police did not have this authorization, they would invite the person concerned to hand over the gun because they have reasonable suspicion that e.g. With regard to the medical condition or the information he has, he intends to commit a crime, and he wouldn't release the weapon, and she would go to the prosecutor or the judge to issue the warrant, so at that point, the man of course knows that the gun will be taken away and can act. So I am convinced that the authorisation contained in the bill is correct, but I agree that we should think about it and certainly, if this proposal is passed to the constitutionally legal committee, we will look for a way, such as. in this case, to ensure synergies at least by a prosecutor or a judge. But as I say, the authority that is there, in my opinion, is absolutely essential for the police to prevent the situations we are talking about that have happened in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u15	Now Mr Okamura's point of fact, then Mr Gabal, then Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I must add here for our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy, the SPD, that we fundamentally reject tightening legislation on the possession of weapons by decent, proper Czech citizens. I am a proud member of the Czech Shooting Union, I am a proud member of the sport shooting club Kostelecký, Olympic winner from Beijing, I am an active shooter, I come regularly to shoot, and there are really many and many of us. We are decent, decent, we must meet a number of conditions that have already been mentioned here, and I do not understand why we, hundreds of thousands of decent people, who meet many formal conditions, must be limited here. Instead of the government and the European Union turning towards illegal possession of weapons, which is the problem - to wipe out illegal arms holders because terrorist attacks are being committed and the security situation is getting worse here, so this activity is actually turning in the wrong direction, and here we are spending our time in something that we would even be in that direction, restricting proper and decent citizens here, we should be focusing on something more important, that is, the illegal possession of weapons. Well, last but not least, let's say one thing. When I speak for us shooters and for us active shooters, and I am not ashamed of it, we are rather uncertain about the European Union's inability to assure citizens that the security situation here is not deteriorating. So in this atmosphere, that goes the other way around here, I'd say restricting or tightening the conditions, so we actually see it, we shooters see it very negatively. And as we know, the crime of foreigners in the Czech Republic is rising, although it is falling overall, but that is after counting the criminality of Czech citizens, which is much more in proportion. This also means, from this point of view, I think it is good for citizens to have the opportunity and the feeling that they can protect their children, their family in the event of an attack, and on the basis of properly defined conditions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u17	Thank you. Mr Gabal, please, and Mrs Černochová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u18	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, thank you. I just wanted to respond by your way to my colleague, Černochová. I do not want to include the House with statistics that compare European and American development parameters. In the United States between 2001 and 2015, 150,000 Američan died with their own weapons, which means much more than the summary in the war in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other wars. But I do not want to stress or discuss the meaning of the European directive, because its aim is to unite legislation in Europe so that terrorists cannot get easier, such as. The Moroccan, to a repainted weapon from Slovakia, where the standard is different from anything else. We're trying to unify the rules in terms of weapons availability. The last thing I'm saying, the guy in the TGV, when he pulled out the automatic gun, he was in a completely illegal position, while any American shooter carrying an automatic gun in his car, so until he aimed it and started killing it, he's in a completely legal position. We have to think about that, and then we see the differences in those numbers. Crime is falling, yes, including the shooting, but the last thing I wanted to stress - not the last one, we voted in this House and issued 110 billion. for the defence and security of the population. So we're gonna force these people to buy guns if we give them 110 billion. together for internal and external defense? You don't think that's enough? And the last thing I wanted to say because it seemed a little bit behind the line - I think the claim that any of the dead in Uhersky Brod, if he were armed, could live is unethical. And all I'm going to stress is that the only one of them who tried to attack or attack a shooter with a wooden chair, and this House suggested it for state honor, was not recognised as worthy of honor by the President of the Republic, however he defended himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u19	Your time! I'll ask my colleagues not to shout, I can see it, I can do it. Thank you. And now, please, to Mrs. Černochová's mike.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u20	Thank you. It's unethical to put something in my mouth that I didn't say. I didn't say it was one of the dead guys who might have the gun. So, Mr Gabal, through Madam Vice-President, don't put something in my mouth that I didn't say, and play it from the record, so you can tell me the truth at the next meeting, and you can apologize to me. I don't care about the police's authority that it's based on some kind of conjecture. Do you understand that? I also understand what Mr. Tejc here said. But also the authority that Mr. Tejc here spoke of, and now the Minister wants him in the new law, the police already have today. He's got it under the law of the police. If the police suspect there's something going on in the apartment, in the premises, there's a person who can commit a crime, he's authorized to deal with it. And here it's based only on reasonable suspicion. Reasonable suspicion. I have reason to believe that my neighbor, who turned to my wife, or a neighbor who turned to her husband, I have reason to believe that she wants to commit something. I know he's got an armory because he's got a big trunk by his car, where he puts... where he puts... where he puts... where he puts... [[Gesticulation from the right.]] Please don't gesture me here! Where he puts his briefcase, which I think he's got a gun in there. There's a really reasonable suspicion. Let's not panic about having ten crazy shooters here every week. The statistics and the comparison with the United States, it was completely irrelevant what my colleague Gabal said here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u21	Thank you. And now, please, to Mr. Tejc's microphone. Mr. Lank will be ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u22	I don't want to argue with Mrs Černochová, but I'm afraid the police aren't authorized at the moment, which is why it's proposed in the new law. What is important is that there will undoubtedly be a deterioration in the situation of those holding the gun. But I think that at the moment of the tension, I think better bear that someone on the basis of reasonable or sometimes less reasonable suspicion will be forced to hand over the gun to the police and there will be a review of the reasons for this rather than a tragedy like what happened in Brod. That's one. Second of all, if someone gives up a gun, no one's gonna check his apartment. That's what the law says. But to Mr Okamur. He was talking about being a shooter, so I can say that I'm also, to some extent, in conflict of interest, also holding a gun and a gun. And I am not one of those who would like to severely restrict the rights of gun holders, but I am not the one who would like to defend them at all costs. I think there must be an adequate method to prevent excesses. In my opinion, the proposal that is put forward here, although it will certainly recognise the changes in the committees, can, in my view, bring them together to a large extent. I must say, I am not based on the fact that everyone who is decent and decent citizens is automatically decent and decent just because they are entitled to a gun license. Because the man who killed in Uherské Brod could theoretically also be a proper and decent citizen because he had a legally held gun, and yet what happened happened. That means we have to defend similar excesses. And I think the law, which is here, doesn't do anything forceful, doesn't restrict the arms-holder in any fundamental way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u23	Thank you. Mr. Lank's microphone, please. Mr Luzar will be ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u24	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, this Uhersky Brod. I have more or less to stand up for my colleague, Mrs Černochová, because I also believe that if someone who is legally armed was sitting there at the time of the tragedy, at least with some elementary training, could, I am not saying that it could, but it could turn out in some other way. It's speculation. But there was some chance, though. Who knows? As for the other things that the law brings, I admit that I'm in conflict of interest, because I'm going to end this year with an arms license, and I'd rather have one for ten years than five. And I don't completely understand. And like my colleague Černochová, I also see there a rather unpleasant matter concerning the arms provision of the Police of the Czech Republic, which we are practically exhibiting a bianco check, exactly as Mrs Černochová finally stated, which I wanted to do, only on the basis of reasonable suspicion. If we have The constitution guaranteed the inviolability of the dwelling, so I think that there should be at least a court decision or a prosecutor's office, so that it is not up to the doctor and, in fact, the police officer himself, who could, in theory, really be satisfied with what the colleague said here, that a neighbor would say jealously: he is acting strangely and I saw him having a gun, and who knows what she's going to do with it. I don't think it's good to limit it that way. And as far as the possibility of holding a gun is concerned - after all, from the Interpol director's report, I suspect the ex-boyfriend has already made it clear that the armed public is one of the options and practically the only effective way to defend itself against the attacks of such lone wolves, crazy shooters and so on. And the second thing, as has been said at the recent seminar, the armed public is one of the guarantees of democracy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u25	Thank you. Mr. Luzar's microphone, please. Mr. Plzák will be ready. All factual points. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u26	Madam President, I would like to respond by your means to my colleague Tejc in fact. I would very much like us not to put the tragedy that happened in Uherské Hradiště into direct connection with this law. Just a mentally ill or unbalanced person used a gun to prove something. But Czech history, or the history of Czech criminalism, knows more uses of weapons in these effects - and now weapons such as a motor vehicle. The fact that a person who's crazy like that gets into a car with the intention of running someone over, our history is much more and more familiar. Nevertheless, we do not accept the law that a driver must undergo a medical examination or a driving licence would be withdrawn. How many times did this happen, or that, if necessary, the car keys were confiscated so that they couldn't be used as a weapon? So I wouldn't use these parallels very much. I think the law is necessary. I saw an increase in the limit from five to ten years as a bureaucratic solution to some police problem in the context of savings and investigations, so it was justified. For me, it's got the parallel in that I also have a gun and a career license, so I had a 30-month period that just got up for five years as part of a medical examination. I'll go back to the regime, and I won't mind. But I'd like it not to be considered as a solution to a tragedy like this that happened in Uhersky Brod. It's not like that. Unfortunately, these tragedies will be. They'll be carried out by a chainsaw. They will be carried out by the vehicle. They'll be carried out by anything. You just get sick and commit something. I'd like this not to be linked only to the possession of firearms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u27	Thank you. I'd like to see Mr. Plzák's mike. Mr. Holík will be ready. Real notes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, co-workers, I'm also the shooter, so whoever's the shooter, let him come forward. [[He raises with several hands.]] There you go. My colleague Luzar took exactly what I wanted to say from my mouth, but I wouldn't say it as nicely as he said it. It's just that if someone's under this kind of psychic pressure and wants to do this, they're really gonna drive a car into an island full of people and do it any other way. So I don't think I'd put it in relation to weapons either. And then here were mentioned the unfortunate United States and the acts of violence committed by a firearm. In Switzerland, every member of the military at home has a full field including a gun, and there is no such thing. So I don't think it's just about holding a gun again. It's just an atmosphere in society and other factors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u29	Thank you. Mr. Holík's microphone, please. Mr. Mr. Klučka will be ready. [[Noise in the hall.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u30	Good evening again. I, Madam Vice-President, would correct my colleague Tejc through you. Mr. Zdeněk Kovář, who shot in Uherské Brod, just had a expired weapon passport. It's true, he had a request for a new one, but at that point, he was out of the law. And I'd just like to add a little bit to my colleague Lank and colleague Černochová on one thing. If he had a gun in that restaurant, he had a gun on him, and I point out, he wouldn't be afraid to use it, it might have turned out differently.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u31	Thank you. Now, please, to Mr Klučka's microphone, Mrs Černochová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u32	Thank you, Madam Vice-President. [[Members of the KSČM speak loudly among themselves. Ambassador Klučka is turning to them.]] Maybe they won't hear me. I just want to comment on the fact that there is a connection to Hungary's Brod and this law. The social order, the discussion in this House, was designed to do something about the possession of weapons. Here it is. I would just ask that we do not associate this with the European Commission and the directive. You won't find an EU word in the title of this law. That's what we're gonna talk about. So we don't connect this. I noticed one moment in the discussion. That it would be a good idea if the police were to address the arms holder before their license expires. Yes, I must pronounce my bias. I'm the guy with the gun license. I received an announcement in January that two months later, my gun license was expired. I went to the Police of the Czech Republic, submitted a request and medical opinion from a doctor not more than three months ago. Three weeks later, I got a message that I have a weapons license ready to pick up. This works with the Police of the Czech Republic. That's just a fact. So that we don't do things here that we think aren't at the moment. They are and they exist. And it doesn't bother me that I'm gonna do it every five years out of ten years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u33	Thank you, and please, to the microphone of Mrs. Mrs. Černochová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u34	Thank you. Since this is the window, when everyone says who has a gun license and who doesn't have it - I don't have it yet, but I've been waiting for my exams. And if you're wondering what the weapons license tests look like, they're on my desk. You can look at them. And maybe you, too, who have that gun license, like you said for 20 years, try these new tests now. But I volunteered because I think the fight against mad shooters in Uhersky Brod has one solution. Well-equipped Police of the Czech Republic. A police force that is prepared and willing to intervene against such crazy people. And, of course, it's also about making sure that the Home Secretary, after all the speeches that were being made to the Uherské Brod police address, does what was said to happen. This means: Balistic equipment, shorter driving distance of different units, which have the full equipment. Better guns. There I said that it might be appropriate for the police to borrow drones from the army until they've developed their own weapons. There are a number of possibilities to prevent things like those happening in Uherský Brod. But please, possession of a weapon, possession of an arms license is a right, is a free right in a democratic society. And let's not let him get away with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u35	Thank you. So many factual points at this point. Please refer to Mr Koskuba's microphone duly entered into the debate. And I'm going to ask the left side of the hall to keep it down, because the noise is rising. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u36	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen. I've been performing for weapons and weapons for the second time in my life. Now, of course, as a member of the government. I thank a number of previous speakers in advance for some opinions. I agree with a great deal. And I'm not lecturing anyone, I just think it's a shame that when you saw that, exceptionally, three are logged in to one point, that you didn't make it to the end with your factual remarks. You could argue with three. But the three of us properly logged in actually agree on a lot of things. Firstly, I consider it my duty to express my condolences to the victims of the tragedy in Uherský Brod. This does not reduce this tragedy, but I am easily surprised by the step that concerns the vast majority of the proper holders of arms licenses, to which we extended the license to ten years more than two years ago. Which I am, and I have a personal interest in things, considered a positive step. Because, indeed, the holder of a gun and a gun licence has a number of duties to perform. I'm surprised that if one tragedy happens, so, and here some details have even been explained that all the honest ones will pay for it. I would also respond to my colleague Gabal's contribution. I just, I'm sorry, I have a completely different opinion about the situation in Europe. It's a beautiful thing that protects us from the state. I never belonged to those who would not raise their hand to increase the means of protecting and protecting our citizens. But on the other hand, times are just bad, and I understand that our citizens are interested in protecting themselves a little bit. That is why I welcome what the rapporteur of this law has said, and he has said so on the television programme that many European Union countries could take our arms law as a model. We have nothing to be ashamed of. And it's true that these holders are suddenly tens of thousands, but let's face it, the trouble is quite limited. That means, I guess the law's really enough. Unfortunately, and again, I apologize for bringing in the Uhersky Brod victims. We're just not gonna give these people their lives back, that's what happens. But on the other hand, I am surprised that after accidents on railway crossings, and I do not want to touch our northern neighbours, we will not ban the entry of Polish trucks into the Czech Republic. I apologize to the Minister, who I respect for his attitude towards the immigration crisis, and I do not like to throw a pitchfork into his bill, but I simply do not understand why this one tragedy, which is huge, and it is obvious that it could be prevented, we want to suddenly restrict the arms license from ten to five years at last. I'm sending out these little things. We have ID for ten years, we have a passport for ten years, we have a driver's license for ten years. In essence, for an ordinary citizen, and I am, it is quite pleasant that I need to remember only ten years. Where do I go? Yes, I actually confirm for Prague that the Police of the Czech Republic will inform us in time that we have to exchange our weapons license. Why am I so pleased that we have to go to the police as holders of arms licenses and possibly weapons once every ten years, is what she suggested here, apart from that, I think, colleague Černochová. I don't remember any more considering the flood of facts, if that's what my colleague Seďa said. He really needs to take the bag and go to the police with those guns, where they'll be physically examined. All at a time when we have a mountain of registers for anything. But certainty is a machine gun. We must, especially hunters, drag the bag with all those weapons. And as my colleague Černochová said, indeed, Minister, especially in Prague there is no place to build a car. You're driving a public transport bunch. But then my colleague Kalousek told me I could take a cab. I'm sorry, Prague taxis don't have a very good reputation. And I will only warn the Minister that, as part of some sort of reorganization some time ago, I believe, the Police President of Prague decided, in the framework of apparently savings, that he was quite wisely focusing this weapons record on one place. [[20.20 hours]] By being more remote from Prague 9, which is under the highway, where you walk about 300 meters or 500 meters from the subway with those bags, where if anyone really wants to arm themselves illegally, there's nothing more ideal than taking you down in that underpass under the highway. It all seems ridiculous to me because it worked like a watch before. We were showing up for our circuits. I was even fascinated because those holders weren't so much that there was a personal contact with the cops who were checking up on us and they knew who he was and what kind of trouble he might have caused. This is how a huge headquarters came into being, and I'm not ashamed of it, there's a huge problem. Before you get anything, you go four times, fill out various papers, and for the fees that are here, it's not exactly the ideal service of the people. I would very much welcome it if, I do not know how in other regions, but in Prague it returned to its original form. And then the gun card and the doctors. Yes, folks, no doubt it is necessary to check the individual's health, but I will welcome whether the standard will decide more wisely. Because it is paradoxical that here and there some offices of the Police of the Czech Republic require strict confirmation of the district doctor. That happened a couple of times. In practice, I'm a doctor, and they insist, some do, some don't, that it has to be confirmed by the detour. I'm sorry, I'm not a debrief, and I don't know the responsibilities of a medical examiner, what he's supposed to do to investigate the client. There's only one thing for sure. Although we've cancelled a number of charges, this is where the applicant's fee stays. Another fee, not only for issuing an arms license, but also for issuing a health certificate. And he's often exposed by a circuit doctor. When a policeman is stubborn and a client who wants a gun card tells him he doesn't have a bodyguard, and he's gonna fire him, he's got nothing left to do but find a contractor, he's gonna pay there - please don't take me seriously, somewhere he charges around 450 crowns - and he's gonna get the stamp. On the other hand, the cops here and there, there's probably a gap in that prescription, they won't accept a certificate from a doctor who actually registers the patient, but there's no practice. I guess we could make a difference there. And I wonder how you'll solve this. Yes, it will allow us doctors, although if we look back into a new register, we'll probably see something, but all we'll see is that the person is the owner of the gun license. And between you and me, if he wants to confirm it and ask for it, then either he has it and it's extended, that's written there, or he wants to publish a new one. But with all due respect, we don't always have to know everything about him. I admit I see a bit of a problem here, whether that, even if we do it every five years, will be fulfilled. It would be better if a doctor who actually suspects something serious has happened, and don't be mad at me, then he's mostly a psychiatrist, so he'll probably alert the police. I understand what you're trying to do, but I can see from a doctor's position that how to solve this doesn't seem easy to me. To fill what we're trying to do, so that the gun doesn't have a madman. But here I am pointing out, a car, especially today's modern cars, is also a pretty solid weapon. And there's no one out there checking on anyone unless he's over 65 years old. We're kind of forgetting about that. Well, the last amendment I have. Yes, I also see that we are to be protected mainly by the police, and on the other hand, I do not condemn colleague Černochová for what she said. What would it be if it were... That's not speculation. He actually armed man can sometimes defend himself far better to a thug, or in this case a madman than a man unarmed. But that's probably not the subject of this amendment to the Weapons Act. Then we should do our homework and get back to it. Because often there's a problem when there's proportionality of defense. I know that the courts have changed a lot. But ladies and gentlemen, it seems rather ridiculous to me that at one time it was so that a citizen can defend himself by not putting the attacker to death after he was killed. As a doctor, I don't have to explain that it's quite impossible. And that this is not just about ordinary citizens, that the uncertainty is also in the police's ranks, that is more than obvious. I don't want the Wild West from the Czech Republic, God forbid, but I won't just forgive myself for a comment. I'm watching the trial with a young, 25-year-old police officer who attended, allegedly, as the media are writing, chasing on drugs, and here on the ground I may still have immunity behind that counter, so I'm gonna take the word of a punk who drove his complicate ahead of them all the way to Plzeň. And since the police decided that they were already threatening the danger of proper citizens so much that they had to shoot at him, they started shooting at him. I'm sure you've read it. Unfortunately, the passenger was hit. But whoever's ever fired a shot at a high speed on a moving target isn't easy. What's important is that the cops hit and wonder! Although GIBS has postponed it twice, and I am happy, I am now learning that while the convicted perpetrator has been released about nine times, without me as an MP being able to help him, because the courts are independent, it costs a 25-year-old police officer, who has only done his duty in my piece of information. I am happy that I am not a member of the Police of the Czech Republic. Because I confess that I would often - and I do not criticize the Minister for this, because the Minister is the Minister of the Interior, not the police. But we make the rules. I confess that I do not envy our police officers when they do their duty, that they have to think about this at all and probably envy some of their foreign or rather overseas colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, that is all in brief. I spoke for a long time, there were many factual points that brought me to all these thoughts. I guess that's what's important. I believe that you will be involved in this in the committees. Willow, that's a whole different problem. I don't have a problem. But I would very much welcome it if we could retain the validity of the arms license, which is important to me, for a period of ten years. I'm sure you'll consider the tour. To let the person know who he's going to go to. And I believe that further will be preserved, and I apologize, without further charge, that service that the Police of the Czech Republic will inform the honest holders in due time that it will expire and that no charge will be levied for this if they pay for the inspection and for the issue of the arms license. Which every ten years isn't so small. It's going to go to about a hundred a year when it's translated like that. That's all I wanted to tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u37	I thank you, and now I beg you, with the de facto Vice-President of the Government, Pavel Bělobrádek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to say that if I have a good experience with anyone, they are police officers, and especially police officers who engage in weapons and ammunition. I'd like to say that for people with some mental disorder, psychotics, even a five-year cycle doesn't have to mean they're gonna catch him. Yet it is a matter of latent, which can be provoked by an event that is not predictable in advance. This means that even in this regard I think it is really debatable - I understand the Ministry of the Interior and I think it is one of the possible proposals, but it does not mean that we will not reveal such a person by coming to the gun card a little longer. The excesses are going to happen, and it doesn't mean it's always just a legally held weapon. There's no such thing as accessing illegal weapons. We can see that even the relatively frequent amnesty the state is making shows how many firearms are still found among humans. I think it will certainly be good to have a lot of discussion about this in the committees, because it is clear that it has two sides of the coin. However, I really want to declare that at this point, it would really be very appropriate to focus rather on really good health checks, but even those can't rule out any excesses. I think it's obvious.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u39	Thank you and I ask if anyone else is joining the debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. The plaintiff is interested in the final word. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u40	Madam President, honourable Members, I too am the shooter, I must say. [[Glee in the hall.]] So I only have one gun, so I don't have to go in there with any bag, but I understand the debate that's been going on here. I must say that the Home Office's team will be prepared for a very detailed debate in the committees to find an optimal solution. What I have said repeatedly, so did my colleague Váňa, many of you have said, we are far from trying to punish honest gunholders. The Czech Government, by the mouth of the Minister of Interior and other Ministers, also commented on the proposal for a European decree by the Commission. This decree is meaningless in many parameters and needs to be modified. The decree dealt with de facto weapons that have associations, weapons that are in museums, and other things that are simply pointless from our point of view. We can't just resign to fighting illegal weapons. We cannot afford to still have a CZK 7,000 machine gun in the Czech Republic that can be bought illegally. We can accept any laws, but if we don't eradicate this bad phenomenon that's just here, we can't be satisfied. Our main task is to fight illegal weapons. As for the debate, I think holding a gun is a right, not a duty. And people just have that right. We gave it to them once, and I'm sure we don't want to limit it more than it's healthy. A reduction in the number from ten to five years came out after discussions by experts who agreed that this was a step in the past in the wrong direction and that we should go back to restoring the five-year deadline. We're not defending the debate. If, in the end, there is a compromise proposal that will mean seven years or we will stick to five years, let us leave the debate in the committees. We will try to convince you that a return to five years is the right way to do it, and we will document it with a discussion of experts and certain opinions. Of course, the sněmovna will decide as a phenomenon. It's a question of police entering the residence. Cops can only enter the residence today if there's a life threat, but that's not at a time when a man is just holding a gun. The current legislation does not allow this, and the police officer will have to bear the grounds for entering it, from our point of view, in front of the inspection authority, which is the General Inspection of the Security Corps, and therefore, every time he enters the home for the removal of the weapon, the General Inspection of the Security Corps will assess this. We're not resisting the debate that this could be a court decision. This, too, can be resolved within the framework of the debate, and this can also be determined as an insurance policy, but in any case, and I do not expect it to be hundreds of cases per year, rather tens, will have to bear the burden of proof on which the particular policeman entered the residence and on which he confiscated the weapon. Of course, there will be administrative proceedings for the withdrawal of a weapon, at which end it may also be possible for the person concerned to defend his right to hold the weapon and then seek appropriate compensation. Standard route, standard procedure. So let's talk about as much as possible strengthening people's rights to hold a weapon and the rights of the inviolability of dwellings, on the other hand, let's give the police a chance to just and simply have that chance if it's obvious and justified to enter a dwelling. I'd like to respond here to one thing that I don't think is true, and that's that the person who shot the people in Uhersky Brod wasn't holding a gun license. From what I can remember, she was a possession of an arms license and even a freshly restored one. Even at a time when the municipality is expressing itself as to whether or not the person concerned has an extended arms licence, so at the same time that the municipal police of the municipality concerned knew that the person was not trouble-free, it was still that the gun card had been extended. There was an administrative review procedure initiated and it cannot be ruled out, but I really fabule that the trigger for a horrible crime was also the possibility that this person was given a document that called for a review, to whether he was holding or not holding a weapon legally. If it were at the time of this law's effectiveness, most likely than the police would have sent this document, it would have first called on the person concerned to issue arms if it had not happened, would have entered the dwelling and confiscated these weapons until the review had taken place. For this reason, and for no other reason, we want it. Even I, my fellow colleagues, think that people have the right to hold a gun. I, too, read articles in the paper when an Israeli civilian was shot by a perpetrator who attacked a military patrol and injured two police officers. I also think that these people, if they hold weapons wisely and behave with some humility, have the right to hold weapons and can be part of the security system of the state. The cars. We've been debating that for two years. Mr Koskuba, through Madam President, mentioned here, and he was not alone, that even a car is a weapon. In the long run, the Ministry of the Interior wants people who drive under addictive substances and are caught in more than one case to be part of their punishment to confiscate the car. Some courts grant this punishment, especially in the Ústí Region, are very progressive in this matter, and it is the way in the right direction, because a person who uses an intoxicating substance and has car keys in his pocket, nothing stops and nothing prevents him from getting into the car without a driver's license, it doesn't really matter. Only if he doesn't have the keys in his pocket is it's a guarantee that he doesn't have anything to sit in. This means that we are also trying to do a comprehensive practice here in the long term. As far as the warning is concerned that the gun licence expires, I am clearly in favour of continuing this practice, and I am not sure that this practice is thus implemented throughout the Czech Republic. I'm gonna find out if that's the case, if it's not, we're gonna unite it, because I think a client, a citizen, has the right for his money to get a text or another form of alert. The honourable colleague Koskuba through Madam President. We solved this problem with the capital city of Prague about a year ago. I thought in vain that there had been a correction. At that time, the police president promised that a suitable place would be chosen to reach, park, and solve his problem, or to choose a place where there is a public transport next to it. I heard from my colleague Koskuba today that it didn't happen. So I can promise you that I'm gonna check it out, and if I'm not, I'm gonna make amends so that the gun holders can come to this place by car and they don't have to carry a few guns in a bag on their backs. Thank you for the debate and we are ready to discuss this in detail in the committees and to come up with a compromise proposal that will receive broad support here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u41	Thank you, Minister. I ask the rapporteur whether he is interested in the final word. That's right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the debate on this bill, three Members have spoken, i.e. duly signed up, and thirteen Members and Members with factual remarks. In all performances, the proposal to consider the limitation of the duration of the arms licence as well as the consideration of the possibility of the Police of the Czech Republic entering the residence in justified cases where there is a suspicion of loss of eligibility of the holder of the arms licence. I will just say that even in the explanatory report, the petitioner writes that he has no ambition to prevent such excesses as he did in Uherský Brod, because he is aware that this is not possible either by more frequent medical examinations or by other measures. These things just happen. However, it is possible to reduce the level of risk of the case thus created. No one suggested rejecting this law. The Guarantee Committee has so far been proposed by the Organisational Committee to the Security Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u43	Thank you, rapporteur. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. As has already been said here, the Organising Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 136, to which 129 are registered, for 117, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Anybody got a suggestion? Mr Schwarz, Mr Benda. It'll be identical, okay. Member Schwarz.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u44	Good evening, Madam Vice-President. My proposal is a constitutional committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u45	Mr. Seďa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u46	Since the bill also concerns the armed forces of the Army of the Czech Republic, I propose to the Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-01-27-ps2013-039-05-014-048.u47	Any other suggestions? It's not like that. We will therefore now vote on Mr Schwarz's proposal - the commandment to the Constitutional Committee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 137, to which 129 are registered, for 113, against 2. This proposal was adopted. We will now vote on the proposal from Mr Sedi, who proposes ordering this press to the Defence Committee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour, press the button, raise your hand. Against? I'm done with the vote. It is a vote with order number 138, to which 129 are registered, for 98, against 6. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been adopted. This press has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Constitutional Law and the Committee on Defence. I'm ending reading this bill first. We will now proceed to discuss the next point and that is the point
