ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u1	155. Government bill on health protection against harmful effects of addictive substances /house print 508/ - third reading I ask that the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee for Health, Mr. Jaroslav Krákora, take the position of the rapporteur for the plaintiff. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 508/8, which was delivered on 22 March 2016. The resolution of the guarantee committee was then delivered as House Press 508/9. Now I'm asking... Resolution 508-9 of the Guarantee Committee was received today by all Members on benches - Wednesday 4. 5. 2016. And now I ask the appellant whether he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal has been discussed several times in the Chamber of Deputies. Therefore, allow me only to reiterate that its aim is to strengthen protection against damage caused by addictive substances. In this respect, an increase in the protection of public health, particularly as regards children and adolescents, is a priority, but also a focus on reducing the impact of damage caused by addictive substances. I would therefore ask you to support only those who can contribute to achieving these objectives when voting on the amendments. I would like to mention the following on the various substantive headings of the amendments. A total ban on smoking in restaurants, cafes, bars is one of the main measures of the proposed proposal. The main motive for submitting a proposal for this measure, as has already been mentioned several times, is to protect the health of not only guests but also employees of these facilities, as all employees have the right to breathe clean air at work. [[11.00 hours]] However, I am prepared to accept amendments that do not go against the meaning of this law, even if they do not give me exactly great joy, all within the framework of the adoption of this standard as a whole. I am therefore expressing a neutral position on Mr Benda's amendment, which proposes leaving the possibility of establishing a structurally separate area, which would occupy a maximum of 25 per cent of the floor area of the establishment, where only customers can bring their meals and there will be no entry for persons under the age of 18. I also accept the similar proposal made by Mr Zemek, which would allow the smoking of water pipes in constructionally separated spaces reserved for this within restaurants, bars, cafes and, in particular, tea shops. Water pipes are by no means less harmful than cigarette smoking, but even here there is a need for a more tolerant approach. In order to reach a compromise, I support the possibility of setting up a building-separated space for smoking in other places, e.g. in indoor entertainment areas or sports areas, but provided that the protection of the health of the staff of these establishments is ensured - see Mr Krákora's proposal. However, I certainly cannot agree with the amendment, which could set up building-separated smoking facilities in any medical facility - Mr Snopek's amendment, or in schools and school facilities, although it should be spaces where persons under the age of 18 do not have access. On the contrary, I like the proposal to reinstate smoking bans on exposed public transport platforms - the amendment of the constitutionally legal committee. I am also willing to accept a compromise on electronic cigarettes, in the sense that the ban on the use of electronic cigarettes will not apply to restaurants, bars or public transport stops, but I continue to insist that, for example, in schools or in children's playgrounds, it is justified. In accordance with the opinion of the Committee on Health, I cannot support the amendment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, which proposes completely removing the issue of electronic cigarettes from the scope of the bill. In the event of approval of this amendment, the sale of such goods to persons under the age of 18 would be authorised and the transposition of Directive 2014/440 of the European Parliament and of the Council would be disrupted, which cannot be recommended for the Ministry. At second reading, amendments were made to ban the sale of tobacco products and related products on certain types of sites. I certainly cannot support them falling out of this circle of places, for example. actions predominantly intended for persons under 18 years of age or the sale of tobacco and related products in means of transport intended for public public public transport of persons with the exception of air transport, i.e. places where smoking is to be prohibited. I do not consider it appropriate or effective. As part of the second reading, amendments concerning the submission and sale of alcoholic beverages at sporting events and proposals which propose to expand the places for occasional sale and the supply of alcoholic beverages have also been read. The original intention of the Ministry was to take account of the so-called methanol case to limit the sale of alcoholic beverages on all markets which are not primarily targeted at the sale of food goods, such as: in flea markets, but following the extensive discussions held in the Chamber of Deputies on this subject, I am in favour of an amendment which explicitly lists these markets among the places where the occasional sale of alcoholic beverages is permitted and allows occasional sale of alcohol at public parties, traditional and similar events such as those of the Member States. Thorngate or wine baskets - Mr Krákora's amendment. Furthermore, as part of the discussion of the proposed bill in the Constitutional and Public Administration and Regional Development Committee, I supported the amendments by Members Vondráček and Bendl concerning the regulation of the sale of alcoholic beverages at sporting events, where the initial limit of alcohol volume is increased from 4 % to 4.3% for alcoholic beverages that can be sold at sporting events. The Ministry cannot support amendments to disband the sale and supply of alcoholic beverages with higher ethanol content, which would go significantly beyond existing legislation. The Ministry of Health also supports the adaptation proposed by Mr Krákora, an exception to the prohibition on the sale and supply of alcoholic beverages in schools and educational establishments where education is taught in the fields of education focusing on gastronomy, hotel industry, agriculture, food industry or food chemistry. This adjustment was also supported by a representative of the Ministry of Education. As regards the amendments that require the clear legal anchoring of the Government's advisory body and the national drug coordinator, I state that this proposal has not been supported by reason of its non-normal nature when discussing the draft law in the Government's Legislative Council. Although I have proposed as soon as possible the date of effectiveness of the bill, I recognise the need for operators and sellers to gain more time to adapt to the new conditions. On the other hand, the limiting factor is the fact that the government proposal is also one of the transposition rules for the new tobacco directive, when the transposition period is set at the end of May 2016. Nevertheless, I support the amendment with effect from 1 January 2017, which I consider to be a reasonable term reflecting the expected length of the legislative process. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, despite the proposed number of amendments, together with this bill, we will be able to contribute to improving the situation in terms of protection against addictive substances and, as a result, to improving the health of the population. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u3	I want to say amen, Minister, so be it. Thank you, Minister. The amendments are published in the press 508/8 and 508/9. I am opening up a debate in which Mr Jiří Petrů was the first to sign up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for me, in this law, there were three basic areas that I focused on and that I paid attention to, namely those areas in which the existing law was essentially permanently exceeded and that crossing was tolerated. Therefore, I would ask you to support Amendment V in kolega Krákora, in Section 11 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b). This applies to educational establishments dealing with the preparation of pupils in the fields of gastronomy, hotel industry, agriculture, food industry or food chemistry. So please support V.V. Number 1, and also number 2, where this concerns more or less the secondary economic activity of schools or the use of school premises at a time when there is no teaching and these premises are rented to certain entities for various events, e.g. gymnasiums for ballrooms or weddings, school dining rooms etc. The last thing or area that I have devoted to is mentioned in my amendment F1 paragraph. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 4 (1) (a) (g). It's an area of sporting events where I add the word "wine" and "wine." The same is then the same in Amendment No Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) 1, where the word "and wine" is once again given. For what reason? You know for yourself that there are sporting events such as the Brno Grand Prize, where the winner of this grand prize then uses a seven-litre sect to celebrate its first and, of course, to drink from it. There are VIP stands at sports events, sports arenas, sports stadiums where you also enjoy a welcome drink etc. There are large international events where champagne or wine are of course used, etc. Also at smaller events, such as winter and spring football matches in lower competitions, is served e.g. a welder. Yes, there were arguments: well, it can anyway, but it did, so it can stay that way. But if we have this law open, it would be appropriate to fix it. I therefore ask for the support of these amendments. The F2 amendment also includes the area where it can occasionally be sold and served by alcoholic beverages, wine tasting and grape must tasting, i.e., the common term, peanuts. I beg the support of these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u5	I thank Mr Jiří Petr. Another duly registered member is Mr Jan Klán. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u6	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, Mr. Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen. Let me, once again, hopefully for the last time, comment on the issue of smoking ban. The law has shrunk to this, at least in the media, that's how I feel. And I'm here to support the so-called. partial regulation of the prohibition of smoking, following the model of Austria or Slovakia. I have spoken many times about how these neighbouring states are to do this. As a person who comes from a village and knows the problem of pubs in a village or in smaller towns, I like the Slovak model, which has been introduced there since 2004, and Slovak regulation distinguishes the regime for restaurants and bars. Smoking in restaurants is possible in separate rooms, which must not occupy more than 50 per cent of the area of the restaurant and must be isolated from the rest of the establishment. Smoking is not prohibited in establishments where food is not served, i.e. bars. However, they may decide to be non-smoking facilities or smokers. But he has to decide, which is a big difference against our adjustment, where we give the operator a choice that he can decide. That word is obviously a big difference: it can and must. I'm leaning to the operator's own determination of what equipment he's gonna have. Smoking or non-smoking. And I, as a non-smoker, if I go to a smoking facility, I'll be clearly marked at the entrance, so I'll know about it. And I'll also know he'll smell my clothes, my hair, anything else. And I'm gonna go in there and spoil my health. samý and consciously. The problem is that when a person comes into employment in this environment, of course, there would have to be an adjustment. And that's what they have in Austria. Of course, in the last debate at second reading, it was said here that Austria will be completely banned from smoking since 2018. Which is true, but since 1995 it has been banned partially. So it was regulated in some way. And after 20 years, they've gone somewhere that they've made a total ban on smoking. Personally, I'm really leaning, and I'm defending the view that there's a partial regulation here. Because let's go the way of partial regulation gradual. If we make a complete line and say that all the devices will be non-smoking, I understand, of course, it's in today. As a non-smoking man, of course, I'd be happy to, too. But on the other hand, I must understand the operators of these devices. Because they have to go through business permits, hygiene, and I'm gonna order them to do what kind of equipment they're supposed to have? That seems a little bit problematic to me. Plus, if I go all the way, and especially in the villages, those people aren't gonna follow it anyway. When we discussed this with the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, there were various proposals and suggestions. And I asked about the clubs. Club, closed company, it could be a dart club, a club of friends of quiet poetry and other things. How will it be modified with them? After all, it's a closed company, you're contributing to the club, you've got key cards, and what's it gonna be? Will there be a total ban on smoking, or won't there be? I didn't get a clear answer to this, but I learned the law wouldn't apply to clubs. And what the hell he didn't want, so in the villages where I go often, and I go to local pubs, some of the pubs have become clubs at this point. Yes, it was possible that operators had already assumed that there would be a total ban on smoking, so they made it a closed company. They have a list of their people, clients, and according to that, you always come to that facility. I'm saying that a total ban on smoking, maybe, I'm not saying for sure, will mean the end of the village pubs. At least somewhere, I'm not saying everywhere. Of course, I had such arguments in the e-mail that everyone would like the pubs to be non-smoking, that they would take the children with them for ice cream. So then I have to ask what children would do in an ice cream pub, when the pub is from the word pub, when there are mostly drinking alcoholic drinks or soft drinks and there should be an entrance from 18 years old, clearly stated on the door. Now I'm still dealing with the word that occurs in the law, and that's the word mostly. Mostly people under the age of 18 when they are present, most of them. What's the word mostly? Nobody explained it to me. Not even on the committee when I asked the petitioners about it. And the word mostly-- so they said to me, you know, we're just lawyers, and that's the same thing as the word immediately. Well, I don't think there should be words like that in the law. It should clearly say that there will just be 50 percent of people under the age of 18, so there won't be any alcoholic beverages. Which is meant, like, at sports events in the villages. About not going down the path of a total ban, whether yes or no, I say, I understand a total ban. I understand that, of course, today is a need, someone's heart is in some way in the health of the citizens at once. But let's remember that we're probably not at that stage, that we should keep a total ban on smoking. And maybe we'll try to get around it. That is why I personally, and I am saying this for myself, will support any amendment, whether it be Mr Stupčuk, Mr Adámek or Mr Snopek, I will support the softening of this model to the Slovak or Austrian model. Of course, I can be blamed for somehow supporting the smoking lobby or the tobacco lobby, but it's not true. It's not true. I am a non-smoker, but of course I say responsibly again: I see the possibility that the operator of the equipment should choose what equipment it will have, and then adjust, for example, the rights of employees in these smoking areas with some advantages or something else. That would probably be all for me, because I said all my arguments here at second reading, and I introduced you to the analysis of how all the states in Europe have it. You could see that not all countries in Europe have a total ban. It is mostly a partial ban on smoking in restaurants and bars. That we are the only state in Europe that clearly does not have it adjusted is our fault. And if we adjust it with the partial regulation, then we're going to take the sides of those states that at least have it modified, and we're not going to be the only island in Europe that doesn't have the smoking ban adjusted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u7	I thank Mr Klán. Another duly registered member is Mr Jiří Štětina. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u8	Hello. Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am standing here in front of this microphone about the fifth time in the discussion of the smoking, addictive substances and alcohol law. I'm not gonna repeat what I said here a few times. I will be very brief, unlike my predecessors. I think this is one of the fundamental laws that protects the health of our citizens. I know what I'm saying. I was a smoker, a reckless smoker, but I haven't smoked in 41 years. There you go. You can even not smoke, even if you are ointment marias, when the card wants smoke. He doesn't need smoke. So it's just to lighten up. I think the Minister has said everything briefly and clearly here. I have no objection to this, and I just want to say that the health committee has dealt with the issue of smoking repeatedly. He discussed x amendments. And I think what Mr Krákora will say must be recommended for adoption. Because even all those softening additions and retractions that somewhere they have it a little different, so I think everything was discussed on the health committee. And I would like it, according to the resolution of the Health Committee, to be recommended for approval. [[11.20 hours]] Of course it depends on you. I understand that non-smokers have a different opinion than smokers. So it's probably not a law that's going to be played left or right or conservative or otherwise, but that's the law that's needed. At the end of my brief speech, I would just like to remind you that we are indeed the last countries in Europe that do not have this law, and that we must allow our citizens to breathe clean air everywhere. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u9	Thank you, Mr Štětin. Another duly registered member is Mr Petr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, let me also say a few words about this bill, which is another bill that forces the owner, this time, to the owner of the restaurant, what is or should not be, or what may or may not be done inside his own facility. I must remind you here perhaps also the words of my colleague Pilný, who, I believe, yesterday, told us that there is only one right-wing party, these are the citizens' democrats. So I think now you will all have the opportunity to see again who is on the right and who is not on the right, because here we are interfering with the owner's right to decide whether to have a pub or restaurant smoking or not. And I note that the restaurant with the ban on smoking from the owner's decision is growing in the Czech Republic. I note that many restaurant owners are adapting to this trend. And in my deep conviction, it is useless and almost sometimes impossible to make a clear dividing line between what will still be controllable and what will not be controllable. koneckonců all, one of my previous speakers pointed out that this self-control, especially in small villages and villages, would not be any more because the costs associated with it - although the Ministry of Health said that the costs were marginal. Time will tell you what it's like. But the Ministry of Health pleaded against paying these marginal costs by the state. He wants to be paid by the one who points to the one who somehow violated this law. And if it turns out that he really broke it, the person who broke the law will pay. And if it doesn't, it's basically paid by the person who thought so and took the person for examination at his own expense and so on. So much in general, because I don't think we're supposed to order the owner in this respect how he's doing or not, or what he's supposed to or shouldn't allow. It's up to him to make his decision, and he's making more and more decisions, because from practice - or the way it works, the businessman who owns the pub is financially dependent on it. And if he sees that there's an interest in not smoking in a restaurant, possibly defining some time himself according to his practical experience, so that at lunchtime, dinner and the like don't smoke, I think that's the right thing to do. And I say for myself that I support it, and I don't think it's supposed to order the state to take any legal measures. I listened carefully to the Minister, and I am glad that at least somewhere there will be a compromise. I will start with these electronic cigarettes, because the Minister knows well that the harm of electronic cigarettes has not been proven, that it is the way of smokers, how to possibly unlearn smoking and reduce nicotine doses so that they can possibly say goodbye to smoking, and that the harm of the fumes has not been proven. That is what I point out, and I point out very strongly, because I often hear arguments that cigarettes stink and stuff like that. This does not apply to electronic cigarettes. Perhaps that is why the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development eventually encouraged that this law of electronic cigarettes should not be substantially affected. In the building-separated space, there I understood that there was a will to find a compromise. I think that's right. At least this is so that if someone has already invested in this area and has structurally separate premises and wants to meet smokers and non-smokers in this way, then I think that if the Chamber of Deputies finds any compromise on this matter, thank God for it. Alcohol was mentioned here, too. By talking about the law as a smoking bill, we didn't notice a lot of the things that were written in the law and about alcohol consumption. Thank you for the support expressed to increase from 4 originally proposed percent of ethanol to 4.3, which means that it can or will be able to put a ten-stage beer, so it will not be able to have a grog or welder, which I therefore consider to be a mistake and damage that we will cause unnecessarily, just as it will not be possible to put on a sports event, and it is a kind of cultural tradition that, in the theatre performance, when during the break, those who drive go to get water or coffee and those who do not drive, they will usually have a glass of white or red wine or a small beer, because they will not be able to make it any more, so I consider it also a mistake of this law, that we could avoid these rules. And it would be a good thing if some of the amendments were to make this right, because I don't think they would become alcoholics in cinemas or visitors to cinemas or anything like that. It's more like culture, not drinking in the harshest sense of the word. Some of my previous speakers also spoke about the preparation of this law, which we criticized very much on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, because hotel schools, wine schools and the like could not work with alcohol as such, could not learn to serve it, because the bill also forbids the use of alcohol. And I consider that a mistake. I wish the Chamber of Deputies could also find the will to meet secondary schools that normally work with alcohol, whether they are the mentioned wine-growing schools or hotel schools or so on. Teahouses - I wrote here. I think it would also be a big mistake if we knocked out devices that are also not the source of a major problem and are certainly not the origins of the evil in the bad sense of the word. It would be good if we didn't deal with the teahouses in that law at all, because it also belongs to a certain culture, it's not something that we would have to put into the law at all costs in the restriction itself. I'll mention the outdoors. First of all, tobacco, because tobacco, few people know, from tobacco sales, the Czech Republic has more than 50 billion a year, now according to the latest figures, as it has passed through the Chamber of Deputies to raise this commodity, it is 4 billion more. And even if we didn't use it, and I think it wasn't even relevant to this bill, yet it has to be said here, because I often hear how taxpayers pay for smokers and that we all pay for their treatment, so at least there's a footnote to say that the treatment of smokers costs about 11.5 billion a year and more than 50 billion has a national tobacco budget as a commodity sale. I wish all those who commit themselves to their health or anything would earn their money in quotes the way smokers do. I know it's a footnote. I realize that this is not the relevant debate, that it is not about finance, yet I think that such a comment is meant to be made here and must be. [[11.30 hours]] That much for yourself. I will not vote in favour of this law as such on the principle that I have been talking about since the beginning, but I am certainly prepared to support some compromises that the Minister of Health has also indicated here. That's where I think we'll meet in a number of cases. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u11	I thank Mr Bendl. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u12	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would only react very briefly to the words of my previous speaker. I would really like to reject the fact that in a law called health protection against the harmful effects of addictive substances, we will prove who is right-wing or right-wing, unfair or left-wing here. I would like to say that health protection is neither right nor left. Health protection is responsible and irresponsible. So much for my foreman. Despite the fact that, in a number of cases, I will probably vote on this law as much as he does, of course, it will depend on which amendments will pass and will not pass, I will probably either abstain or vote against, but I certainly find it very unfortunate to prove right-wing or left-wing in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u13	I thank Mr Kučer. Another duly signed up for the debate is Mr Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, go ahead.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u14	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will only respond briefly to Mr Bendl and Mr Kučera's current dispute. We can always pretend that it does not have right-wing and left-wing solutions, that the pavements are not right-wing and left-wing, health protection is not right-wing and left-wing. These are the beautiful floscules of those who claim something other than what they claim in general in their lives. But of course, to prescribe to private owners what they may or may not do is a thing that has some political color, and I think it's really left-wing to prescribe to them what they can do in their restaurant, cinema or theater, and that the right-wing ones keep them, let the market determine them. But that's just a brief remark. I didn't want to perform here much longer because I think the House is decided in the vast majority and it's going to happen somehow. In a way, I thank the Ministry of Health that it understood during the discussion that the proposal was written by a group of total fanatics who would prefer to reduce our lives both smoking and alcohol, and regulate in a way in which we should all become absolute abstinence. So, on a number of proposals, the Ministry nodded, understood that some things were really exaggerated. I also understand the helpful opinion of the Minister of Health, who says that if the House votes that there will be separate smoking shops which will not have access to persons under 18 years of age, employees will not have access except employees who want to smoke there, but do not have compulsory access to employees, we consider it the right solution. I think that the solution is right, because it should at least lead to the fact that smokers who are addicted enough to have to light up during their visit to the restaurant will not stand on the streets, which I consider much less educational and much more dangerous for children that we want to protect when they stand outside and everyone smokes out. I volunteered not to report to a debate that will run on the procedure. As I have already announced to the rapporteur at the meeting of the guarantee committee, I will want to change the procedure at one point. This is point 23.18 on page 10 of the voted resolution of the Health Committee on procedure, where the Health Committee recommended proposals by V.V.2, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10 and 19 by the rapporteur, and at the same time recommended my amendment under number K12. I would suggest that, because according to the approved procedure, if V.V.2, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10 and 19 votes are voted in one vote, K12 becomes unvoted to vote first, K12. If K12 passes, then V.V.2 is unvoting and we will only vote on V.V.5, 6, 8, 9, 10 and 19. I think it's a simple change of procedure. For explanation - it is an issue of alcoholic beverages, it is not smoking in any way, where the original ministerial proposal forbids any use of alcoholic beverages on the premises of schools and medical facilities. During the debate, as we conducted it on the various committees, it was understood that this is not the smartest solution, because, in particular, schools rent out in small municipalities, among other things, for various balls and other municipal celebrations, and that when it is out of school, outside the course of what is going on in a school facility, we can normally also allow alcohol. This is Mr Krákora's proposal. I'm the one who warned that the same thing applies to medical facilities. I'm a little concerned here with my colleague Vondráček, who quotes this from his Kroměříže, where he rents from a health facility one of the ballrooms, and I recommended that there should be such an option in the health facility, if it is out of his normal course, it is leased to another event that is not related to health care, so that there is an exception. If we vote first on Mr Krákora's proposal, only schools will have an exception. If we vote first on my amendment to point K12, if it concerns a health facility, it will be possible to have an exception. If there's another health-related event, it's not a treatment process, but it's a prom or a public presentation of anything that's going on at the medical facility, it'll be possible to serve alcohol there. I think it's reasonable. The Health Committee also recommended this proposal. But if we went through a procedure that we designed that I didn't have enough to fix on the Health Committee, we'd get to the fact that the proposal is unvoteable. So this is the only change - to vote K12 first. If K12 passes, V.V.2 is unvoted and only other V.V.5, 6, 8, 9, 10 and 19 votes are cast. I think it's understandable. I hope the rapporteur has noted this, or I will mention it in the debate on the procedure, but I do not want to make it a complete stew. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u15	I thank Mr Benda. Now I have two factual points. First of all, Mr Leoš Heger, after him Mrs Jana Lorencová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I will allow myself a brief comment on the performance of my colleague Benda, who has some internal duty to criticize his previous speaker from the TOP 09 and classify him as a leftist. I would just like to remind you that the fight against smoking and especially against alcoholism is still a domain in the United States. And Mr Benda certainly knows that the United States is not a left-wing country. [[Protests in the right side of the hall.]] Well, in that case, I'd like to ask you to be careful with the terms here. When it comes to regulation, let's look around. Let's take a look at the automotive industry. How much more expensive cars are just because states and large agglomerations of states require a whole range of security measures that make them extremely expensive. So why don't we also protest these things that contribute to security and therefore are in this vision by Mr Benda some sort of leftist fling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u17	I thank Mr Heger. Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Jana Lorencová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u18	Hello, colleagues, Mr President. I'm going to allow myself a more general view of the issue that we're dealing with right now. We live in a time when we do not know what form Europe, as we do, will wake up tomorrow. We live in a time that has special specifics. One is that we are dealing with the preparation of laws, which - from my point of view, I am speaking for myself - are redundant because, the situation in which we have long ago resolved this. Today, when I go after Prague or another city, I choose a restaurant depending on whether it's smoking or not. I think the situation is resolved. I would like to remind you that this situation evokes history, evokes old Rome, bread and games, and at all costs divide the nation. Divide the nation. Once young against old, second-time smokers against non-smokers etc. Always keep the nation busy, keep people busy to argue with each other. I think that the law is redundant, but I believe that each of us is just as determined as he is going to vote, anyway, nothing that we've been discussing here for an hour, and for a few more hours, at a time when we could have dealt with much more important things, you're all already determined how you're going to vote. Me, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u19	Thank you, Mrs Lorencová. Mr Vít Kaňkovský, now duly signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u20	Good morning. Mr President, members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, let me briefly comment on the KDU-ČSL's position on the so-called "KDU-ČSL'. Anti-smoking law. KDU-ČSL is ready to support this government proposal. From the outset, we see this law in particular as the protection of non-smokers from the harmful effects of smoking. This is what I want, and I've already said it here at second reading, to stress again. We do not engage in any front attack against smokers, smoke against the passion of smokers, smoke against their freedom, but at the same time we want to protect the freedom of non-smokers to have a clean environment where they reach, namely, we are talking about restaurants, but also some other public spaces. We also realize that this law, and my previous speaker here, was talking about it, divides our society a little bit, and even here in the House, I dare say that there may be 200 opinions on this law. Nevertheless, I think that this law is necessary and that it needs to come to a legislative end, and I call on all of you to try to bring this law to a happy legislative end, that is to say that it has a form that really will help this country and not the other way around. We do not live in a black and white world, we also had a rather wide and not very simple discussion at our club, and eventually we decided to support some of the softening amendments, because I think it will, on the one hand, improve the situation in society and, on the other, contribute to the possibility of this law having a chance to go through it in the House. We see that it is possible to support some softening amendments on electronic cigarettes, water pipes, to mitigate smoking bans on front gardens, but also on the issue of protection against harmful effects of alcohol. This applies especially to the schools mentioned today, which are involved in the teaching of hotel industry and gastronomy, but also some tasting events, called. baskets and other traditional events. I therefore allow myself to ask the honourable House not to be ashamed of the final form of the law when approving the amendments. Finally, let me ask you to support my amendments, which are given under the letters and numbers R1 and R2. At the same time, Amendment R1 addresses a legally very problematic situation from the practice of physicians who perform methadone substitution therapy. The amendment is prepared in cooperation with the DEA and the Ministry of Health and should remedy the legal situation that is currently bad. And then the amendment under number and letter R1 (?) which addresses the incorporation of adictological services into the diction of the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u21	Thank you, Mr Kaňkovský. With a factual remark, Mr Jandák. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't want to perform, it's pointless. But when there were words from a humane colleague about the happy endings... When will the happy endings end? When you ban pork? I don't know. Then one small comment on what the Minister said at the outset. The Minister told us that we accept this because we want to protect our children and youth. Is that why we're going to ban those 70-year-olds, 60-year-olds like me from smoking in rural pubs? I don't see the logic. And then a little comment on how things are going in the world. Even in our country without this law there are 70 percent non-smoking restaurants. Did we have a hard time living until the svatý duch enlightened the minister and came up with this law as the fourth minister in a row? It didn't! I'm just asking where it all ends, folks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u23	I wish it had a happy ending, Mr. Ambassador. With another factual remark, Mr Milan Brázdil. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u24	I'd like to follow up, too. You know, this is where it was said to protect health. Sorry, it won't protect my health. I'm a non-smoking man, and I don't want to meet smokers on the sidewalk in front of me, if I run or if my wife doesn't smoke, make it short and good... I don't want to get these people out of those rabbits -- smoking out. Let them be there, let them smoke nicely, and let them do what they need to do, but let the rooms that are intended for everyone be non-smoking. This won't protect my health. Still, as a doctor, I understand harm, but that's how I wanted to react. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u25	Thank you. Mr Ludvík Hovorka is now duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u26	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to draw your attention to a specific part of this law and that is the occasional sale of alcohol. This has already been discussed by Mr Petrů, and the Minister stressed that he supports the V.VIII amendment, paragraph 1, in this case. 1 and 2 of Mr Krákora. There are three amendments in this area. One is Mr Petr - F2, one is therefore Mr Krákora - V.VIII, then Mr Sed - H2, H3, and there is also my amendment I1.3. And I would like you to note the difference in these amendments, because in principle we are all Moravian Members, or we are Moravia Members, and we are trying to resolve the issue of occasional alcohol sales, for example. if you have festive wine baskets, traditional slivovitz baskets etc. The difference here is that Mr Krákora's amendments concern the occasional sale of alcohol, particularly wine. They then say in this paragraph. 2 that it is possible to sell spirits for occasional sale. But I want to say, the fundamental difference in my proposal is that in this Section 14 para. 1 I say: Alcoholic beverages can be sold on the market as part of an occasional sale, a public festival, a traditional beverage competition, a cultural and dance event. So you have listed all the specific occasional sales. In addition, alcoholic beverages containing not more than 4,3 per cent volume ethanol can be sold at a publicly available sporting event as part of an occasional sale. [[11.50 hours]] And there's another paragraph. 2 which is otherwise formulated. So please read as formulated in my proposal: (2) The person who intends to sell spirits under a directly applicable European Union regulation governing the definition and description of spirit drinks, hereinafter referred to as spirit drinks on the market, is obliged to notify in writing the sale of spirit drinks to the tax administrator in whose territorial scope the sale will take place, no later than five working days before the sale begins. Then there's another paragraph. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure referred to in this Article. The tax identification number of the person, the type and quantity of the spirit drink offered for sale, the place of sale, the type and description of the action, the date of commencement and termination of the sale shall be indicated in accordance with the requirements laid down in the tax rules. And I'm stressing here what the point of my proposal is. This paragraph came into the law probably because of the fact that there was an affair around the martial alcohol. And it is a measure designed to limit the impact of low quality spirits on our citizens. But at the same time, according to the current regulation, it is a complication for these occasional sales, e.g. Slivovitz baskets where only fruit spirits are sold, etc. It's a complication, because the organizer has to tell the tax administrator in advance that he's going to sell alcohol, what amount it's going to be. In many cases, it is not even the sale of alcohol, but pass it on, etc. etc. So here's the removal of the too complicated regulation and the duty that the organizer has to perform. And it also applies to the event of prom and dance entertainment, where you have to report that you will sell alcohol, in what amount, and IČO you must report, and this is often a complication in the case of the sale of those organizations and it often goes around that it is reported to some local entrepreneur etc. So the point is that what's supposed to protect these people is essential, that's the sale of spirits on the market, so the obligation that the seller has to fulfil is just about the liquor dealer on the market. So I would like to ask all the petitioners to make proposals regarding occasional sales, which actually want to free occasional wine baskets, traditional beverage competitions, slivovitz baskets from those unpleasant obligations and do not want to complicate people's festivities in order to support this proposal of mine. I also consulted the Ministry of Agriculture, and it was basically said that this is the right proposal. So please support your amendments, especially the I1.3 proposal, and thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u27	I thank Mr Hovorka. With a factual remark, Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u28	Well, hello again. Thank you for the floor. I didn't understand the words of my previous speaker that there are almost all Moravia MPs who want exceptions. I do not know if this also applies to Members of the Czech Republic who have a similar view of the matter. However, I would like to draw attention to one thing that I hope all of us, or at least most of us are aware of. We have before us a bill that has more than 200 amendments, I suspect some 240. And my previous speaker's words just confirmed it. We will approve exemptions here, then we will approve exemptions from exemptions and exemptions from exemptions. This is an amendment to the law that will be approved here today. Exemption, exemptions and exemptions. What the law will make, what the final amendment will be after all these amendments have been approved, no one can know. What will be the result of our vote on the final proposal, no one really knows. And I think there's got to be some time before we even read the law after each other before we finally approve it, so we know what we're going to vote for. And yet most of what's going on here in the adoption of this law, at least it's got a little bit of a hint -- I feel so hypocritical in there. Because if we really want to ban smoking and if we accept that smoking is harmful, then please stop selling tobacco. Let's not sell cigarettes. This is the only effective solution. If we accept that alcohol is harmful, we limit the sale of alcohol and banish it into special stores. These are two simple solutions and two simple paragraphs. And so far, we're going the way of opt-out and opt-out. There will be legislative pasquil. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u29	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u30	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to apologize to my colleagues and my fellow speaker. I didn't mean to highlight the Moravia MPs. I think that everyone who is in this House is trying not to complicate too many people with their occasional events, which are held in the traditional baskets of slivovitz, traditional wine baskets, traditional beverage competitions. I think everyone has a healthy opinion about it. And I think that even the intention of the petitioner was not to restrict these actions in any way. Then I'll just explain it to you. I just wanted to say that it may be more sensitive for some Members, because more events are being held in their region and, of course, they are meeting with these people today and daily, and often it is presented to them what you invent in the Chamber of Deputies for nonsense. So that's why I wanted to point out that this concerns us a little bit more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u31	I thank Mr Hovorka. With another factual remark, Mr Benešík. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u32	Dear Vice-President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, just a brief response. It has been said here that we are all determined how we are going to vote. I'm not yet. I will vote on the outcome of the vote on the amendments. And I stand by what Ludvík Hovorka said. I would like to add to this here, and I would like to say that his amendments do not address tobacco, they do not address smoking, but they are dealing with possible complications which the petitioner certainly did not intend, but which may occur if the amendments are not approved, in such events as wine baskets, slivovice baskets, etc., when unnecessary complications arise and the people who organize such actions are essentially not able to organise them or not to the extent and with the character as they are today. And then one more thing. The matter has also been raised that perhaps we will forbid pork and that smokers have the right to smoke. Of course they do. Nobody says they don't. But I'm just saying that a non-smoking person has a right to clear the air. And there's plenty of public space where they share the clean air with the smoker. I hope the Vice-President, who's not here today, doesn't read the tape and take it as an inspiration. I'd hate to put her on something I don't want to smoke myself. But now that we go out on the terrace behind the State Act, my colleagues can hear me now, we share that air. Now who has the right? A smoker for the clean air, or a smoker for the right to smoke there? [[Noise in the hall.]] I know this is a very difficult discussion, but this is the essence of the matter. It's not just that kids don't see adults smoking. That's a very difficult thing to do. But it's also particularly important that a non-smoking person has a right if he doesn't want to breathe this air. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u33	I thank Mr Benešík and I promise not to tell the Vice-President. With another factual remark, Mr Pavel Blažek, Mr Klán, followed by Mr Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u34	Hello, thank you for your word. I hate to follow up on a set of Moravian MPs, but I would like to say that it doesn't look like we in Moravia are still in the cellar and we're bitching for slivovitz, and that's why we're here to fight to keep drinking in Moravia, while the Czechs live beautifully. So I would respond here and ask the Moravia MPs not to talk about us like that, and with full responsibility I declare that I also spend enough time in the Czech Republic and Prague and drink there and smoke exactly the same. So please, let's not make Moravia the idea that some would like to see that we're constantly twitching the slivovitz, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u35	I thank Mr Blažek. With another point of fact, Mr Klán, after which Mr Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u36	I am not going to comment on the slivovitz here, although I also like to drink it, so I am certainly leaning towards the amendment tabled by Mr Petrů, which I will also support, but I will return to the one who has the right to clean air. I'm sure everyone will, but maybe there's something going on here. This was about restaurants first. You don't usually smoke in restaurants these days. Where it cooks, I point out. That's a big difference. Where there is no cooking, in my opinion, the operator should choose whether he wants to be a smoking or non-smoking facility. That's my opinion. And as my colleague Benešík said here, non-smoking has the right to clear the air. Well, if I go out on the terrace, of course, the air isn't clean when there are smokers, but I don't have a problem with that. When it comes to smoking in restaurants or not, I say again: well, let's make a closed room, it'll be a smoking shop, there will be smokers and non-smokers there will be clean air, because they'll be in the non-smoking area anyway. Let's get this straight. And I've said for several times here, I'll vote for models that are Austrian or Slovak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u37	I thank Mr Klán. Now two more factual points - Mr Benda, then Mr Jandák. Good noon, ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u38	Good noon, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague Benešík raised me just a little bit with his point that he had the right to go on the porch so that no one would smoke him there. This seems to me really - then make a regular proposal for a ban on cigarettes. But the fact that somebody has a right not to smoke outside, that seems like a real freak out somewhere else. When I look at how much air pollution we have from cars and other things, they claim to be the biggest pest in this country to smokers, because someone probably smells bad. Well, maybe it stinks. A lot of things stink to me. Different persons moving in trams that do not need to be able to bathe often enough. I even often smell of perfumes, including men's and women's. But I still don't walk around the world and I'm not saying, you're supposed to ban all this. So I'd just like to have some level of rationality, and I'd like to ask my colleague Benešík, who just had to leave, so don't let him go on that porch, but to stop me smoking outside, that seems a little too much to me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u39	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Jandák, then Mr Seďa and Mr Kolovratník, still in factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u40	I just wanted to Benda what's going on here. My colleague, we want to protect people. And we're gonna protect them even if we have to kill them! [[Fun.]] That's what this is all about. And then, please, just one little thing. I'm already a memorial, an ending old man. 250 amendments have never even been here. The walls don't remember. [[Objection from the diaper: It was!]] If anyone's older, he may remember, but I've been here long enough to keep it quiet. No one remembers that. And I have a feeling, even if there are only a few amendments, let's say it's 120, so it's no longer a government proposal, Minister. Why don't you think about it after all you've heard, and you said crucifix, and I'll download it and rework it? I think that's a good suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u41	I may have the priority right here to speak with Minister Mládek, but I cannot give him the floor because I still have two factual points, namely Mr Sed and Mr Kolovratník. Then the rapporteur's factual remark, which also has priority rights, and the Minister too. Okay. But also factual remarks? [[Yes.]] Okay. Mr. Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u42	Thank you for the floor. I do not like to perform at third reading, because here we should be dealing with really specific amendments and votes, but I would like to remind you that every bill should be judged by common sense, it should be implemented in practice and should be controlled in particular. And I'm afraid that some of the provisions seem to be based on established practice, where I say, for example, boiled wine that is commonly used, or grog for tourists, that means sports events in winter, so basically no one will control it, even if the law forbids it. Does that make sense? I don't think he's got a sip. And finally, I'd like to say that somebody forgot the voting card. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u43	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Kolovratník's factual remark, then the factual remark of the rapporteur and the Minister, then the priority right of Minister Mládek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u44	Good noon, co-workers, co-workers. I didn't want to do it at third reading, it's really going round and round, and I don't believe any of the camps will convince anyone from another camp to make a significant move. But in response to my colleagues, I must and will actually repeat myself, please, colleagues, look abroad, see the United Kingdom, including Ireland, Northern Ireland, look in a large part of Germany, but also Italy or Turkey even. I want to send a message to the 60-year-olds who represent Slávek Jandák: Dear scientists, they're normal not to smoke! So please take your wits and support the law as proposed by the Department of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u45	It is nice of you, but the factual points are in order: rapporteur Krákora, Minister Němeček, colleague Klán, colleague Vondráček, colleague Vyzula, colleague Blažek, then Member Jandák. Those are factual remarks. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just going to follow up on my colleague. I use this exact sentence that it is normal not to smoke, and for that I add: smoking is proven to be harmful to health. It's been proven. But I got off because I wanted to follow up on my colleague Jandák. I am here for one period longer than my colleague Jandák, so there were laws on roads that had about 300 votes, over 300 votes, and then normally over 200 to 300 votes, some colleagues also remember, state budget laws, where they were called. Cutting up a bear, but each Member had several proposals, which were independent, unconnected and were individual. But otherwise, I agree, of course, that almost 250 votes are a large portion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u47	Thank you. Now the de facto remark made by Minister Němeček, and since Minister Mládek turned his application into a factual comment, I will then give him the floor. Minister, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will just follow Mr Jandák's remark that, as a responsible minister, perhaps I should withdraw the law. I'm here to assure the Sněmovna that I won't download it, because we wouldn't save any money. Even after recasting, if we had come to this House, I do not think that there would be many amendments. [[Was it?]] I must say that I fully respect the sovereignty of the House here, and that, even if I do not agree with it, I understand here another philosophy of Mr Benda, for example, and I understand that he is trying to enforce changes in that law that are close to his vision of the world. I believe that the law will remain in the original sense, but it is true that when some here present dozens and dozens of amendments, I think that the meaning is completely different, which means that the law is so gluttony that it is no longer possible to vote. So on the other hand, I'd like to challenge those who don't really mean it with the changelings to pull them down. I'm not going to withdraw the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u49	Thank you for calling Minister Nemecek. Now the de facto remark made by Minister Mládek, then - I repeat - by colleague Klán, Vondráček, Vyzula, Blažek and Jandák. [[Messenger. Jandak has notes on the order.]] And I would also like to point out to my colleague Jandák that if he does not sign up electronically, someone will be able to overtake him with an electronic application for a factual remark under the Rules of Procedure. Please, Minister, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u50	Mr President, I must turn my back on Mr Jandák's claim that Mr Němeček is some record-breaker with some stupid 250 amendments. We were over a thousand at the power plant, and we did it, too. It has almost no correlation with the quality of the design. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u51	Thank you for keeping time with Minister Mládek. Now, my colleague Klán, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Let me respond by your means to Mr Kolovratník. He was talking about states where there's a total ban on smoking, strictly complete. And I say - why don't we go to the other countries of Europe, Slovakia, Austria, the rest of Germany, Spain, France? There are exceptions everywhere. I was talking about it here in the first reading of the whole analysis. I don't know if you guys are lobbying for states that have a total ban, but I'm telling them to have it, I'm sure it took some time for them to come to it. And in my opinion, we have to make partial regulation so that we can make a total ban in a few years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u53	Yes, thank you, my colleague Klán. Now my colleague Vondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u54	Thank you. I'm just the guys who start with the "I didn't want to perform" sentence. So don't get out if you don't want to, or please don't say it again. It's turning into a cabaret again. I am happy to listen to some of the contributions, especially some of us have the gift of entertaining, but please, a little moderation in the discussion. We've been spending so much time here, let's start voting or deal with this matter. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u55	I thank my colleague Vondráček for keeping time to a point of fact. Mr Rostislav Vyzula's factual comment now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u56	Thank you, Mr President. I wanted to say something similar to what my colleague Vondráček said. Those who don't want to perform, don't really perform. What I'd like to say - it's impossible to get out. That's understandable. It's almost like Moravia versus the Czech Republic, event. They might get caught up in some way, which wouldn't be pleasant. There are opinions from Šumava to Tatras. We discussed it for hours and hours. It's not like we're starting now. I would just like to say a few things. I am pleased by Mr Klán, through Mr President, that he wants to vote according to Austria. Excellent. Just check how new it really is in Austria. [[Member Jandak off the microphone: I was just there.]] You were just there, yes. But that's not what they agreed to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u57	I'm asking my colleagues not to -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u58	That's one thing. Really vote for Austria. Excellent. Then, as far as Mr Jandák is concerned, through Mr President. I like him as an actor, I respect him, it's fun. But as far as pork is concerned, please, the amendment to the law talks about protecting a smoker and a non-smoking person, which means a passive smoker, but also a non-smoking person. And we don't have any passive pork eaters. Or do we? [[Member Jandak off the microphone: We have - children in school dining rooms.]] Okay, okay. Passive eaters, huh? Even to Mr Bend, through Mr President. As for the fact that those who have created this law are fanatics, I would just like to point out briefly that 78% of the people of this Republic want this amendment. That makes 78 percent less of the electorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u59	I thank Mr Vyzula for his time on the point of fact. Now, Mr Blažek, also with a point of fact. I would like to remind Mr Jandák once again that I cannot register his application yet, because all electronics have priority over him under the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u60	Thank you for the floor. By your help, Mr Kolovratník. I like Great Britain, I like to take a role model out of it. But it can't be that we take what's right for us, and we don't respect other things. In the UK, for example, it is unimaginable for the Minister of Finance not to go to Parliament because there are saying stupid things, leaving out regularly. So when you raise your chairman in the spirit of that British parliamentarianism you refer to, how well it lives there, I'll stop smoking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u61	I thank my colleague Blažek. Now, my colleague Benešík, with a point of fact. Then a colleague of Stanjura with a factual remark and then a colleague of Klán. Then he gets an application from the scene. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u62	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to make no mistake. I wanted to point out by example the type of situations that occur and can occur, so let's not make fun of it completely. It's just that a non-smoking person should have the right to be protected. And it's not always the way to say, "Do not go there or avoid it, or that the other person has the right to do so." We simply need to find a clear compromise between where the right of one ends and the right of another begins. That is also a lot of amendments. I'm not some militant MP who's gonna fight smokers here. That's not true at all, but let's really realize that not everyone is a smoker, and that non-smoking person wants to be protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u63	I thank my colleague Benešík. Mr Stanjura's point of order now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u64	Well, first of all, a reaction to my previous speaker. I think that every time a government or parliament decides to do good, we should all be on our guard. It's never gonna end well. First of all. Secondly, when an argument is missing, which is very often lacking, especially in government bills, it is said: But in that Europe it is done differently. Look there, there, there. Germany, Austria, for example. And if we're here in a different area and we say there's unlimited speed in Germany, then suddenly it doesn't apply. If I list here twenty countries of the European Union, where a certain level of alcohol is tolerated for cyclists, it does not apply to the same countries. Suddenly, we're not that mature. When it suits us, let's do it as our neighbors, when it doesn't suit us, so it's true that neighbors do it, but we're not such an advanced society. Neither the first nor the second is true. Whether my colleagues are angry or not, Marek Benda's designation and some of them are appropriate to enforce it into this law. It's interesting when someone's defending another dangerous substance like alcohol, that's cool. Well, my colleague Benešík is a non-smoker, he wants to have a non-smoking space, but alas, if he couldn't trash a slivovitz. So where's the equal access? So we tolerate it with one dangerous substance. I'm not calling for a ban on slivovitz. I will also take a vote on this amendment. And for my colleague Vondráček, I just want to say through the Vice-President - I always want to get off when I talk. I just want to make it very clear. They're mostly colleagues from your club. As my colleague Pavel Blažek said, make peace at home and then instruct others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u65	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now my colleague Klán, then my colleague Benešík and then my colleague Jandák. [[Member Jandak off the microphone: I applied earlier.]] I don't have your application electronically, Mr. Ambassador. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u66	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, allow me to respond by your means to Mr Vyzula. Mr. Colleague, let's hear each other out. At the beginning of the debate, when the debate began, I said that Austria will have a total ban on smoking since 2018. But I'm leaning towards the version they have now. I'm gonna light her up a little bit. Austria - legal regulation, Federal Act No. 431/1995 on the production, sale and advertising of tobacco products and on the protection of non-smokers, tobacco law, as amended. There is a general ban on smoking in bars and restaurants, with the following exceptions. There may be separate and isolated smoking plants in establishments larger than 50 m2. However, it must not cover more than 50 per cent of the area intended for non-smokers. Smoking may be permitted in premises representing one room between 50 m2 and 80 m2 provided that the owner proves that the creation of a separate and isolated smoker is not possible due to construction regulations. Establishments less than 50 m2 may decide whether to be fully smoking or non-smoking. Pregnant women and persons under 18 years of age may not work in areas where they may come into contact with tobacco smoke. Staff members may request the payment of severance payments if they terminate their employment on account of tobacco smoke exposure. This adjustment is, in my opinion, better than we are here at the moment. Let's really listen to each other. At the beginning, I said that Austria will be banned completely from 2018 onwards. But I am pushing for a valid standard now, which Austria still has in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u67	Thank you. Now my colleague Benešík, then my colleague Jandák and then we will return to the proper application by Mrs Válková. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u68	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I may have made a mistake. Yeah, maybe it's my fault, but I don't think it's my fault. But I'm going to say it one more time. I don't like to put myself in the role of a militant anti-smoking man. I'm a very tolerant person. But what I was saying here maybe it was made clear that what I was primarily about was protecting non-smokers from smokers. If a smoker smokes, let him smoke. But if I'm gonna have a squash of slivovitz, it's my business and my liver. When I'm in the company of a smoker, cigarette smoke is the thing of a smoker, his lungs, but also my lungs. That's what I'm talking about. If anyone doesn't understand, I'll try to draw pictures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u69	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Jandák, on a point of fact. And then Mr Stanjura's new factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u70	That was excellent, my previous speaker, indeed. But I was gonna say another thing. You know, at the beginning, you said you wanted to raise people. Have you ever wondered what happened to all the regimes that people wanted to raise? First of all. And two. I don't see the Minister of Culture here. What about the church wine? That'll be under four percent? [[Fun.]] I'm sorry, very important. There's a strong minority of believers here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u71	I thank my colleague Jandák. Now Mr Stanjura - also on the point of fact. Then maybe we'll get back to the discussion. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u72	If it were true that those passionate advocates of this bill only want to deal with smoking bans, we were here long ago discussing and voting on Mr Vondráček's proposal. It's just a ban on smoking. And we can debate whether it's reasonable or not. Lots of stuff packed in there. I'm not gonna name these absurdities. I was talking about it today or yesterday at another point. As a prohibition on alcohol consumption in public spaces. Once the city accepts it, it immediately gives exceptions: This is good action. Here's the grog. And here's the boiled wine. It's always everywhere, at least in my hometown... from the charity. That means who buys it at the Christmas market, as I would call it, this slightly alcoholic beverage, so it feels right. We'll send the crown from the cup to charity, etc. It's completely different. And what Mr. Benešík says is an extensive interpretation. Because you don't talk about smoking in restaurants. You were talking about smoking outside in your first performance. And that's not even in this bill. And the right point is, so far. There's always a beginning. Those who just say no, that's all, we won't want anything anymore, but then they'll come in a year and say, we've found a state where it's harder. And we'll get right through it. And it is indeed in the case of other bills. I see it a lot. As usual, the Minister of Agriculture is not here - a significant market power. He gave 20 European countries and chose the strictest of each. And he put it together. And he always had an argument: it's also in the other country. At this point, I think that no one, not even the Minister of Agriculture, can guess how the vote on the amendments will turn out. But I would recommend to all those who want to raise citizens not to do so. Let them apply upbringing to their families. That's enough.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u73	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact is over. Mr Kalousek's point of order now. Then Mrs Lorencová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u74	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to reassure Mr Jandák. As altar boys, we regularly drank the dean's mosque wine and poured water, so we usually got it under four percent. He's gonna fix his life for himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u75	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Lorencová's point of view. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, it occurs to me that if it's so terribly harmful that the House has to decide whether to smoke or not to smoke in restaurants, whether to breathe or not to breathe the smelly air of smokers, why don't we make our lives easier, and actually our voters, so that by banning tobacco products, we can ban the production of cigarettes. Let's ban the production of cigars or whatever it's all about. Do you know how our lives would get easier? And import! I forgot about that one. Of course. Do you know how our lives would get easier? I mean, we wouldn't actually have to discuss the problem here for four or five hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u77	Thank you, Mrs Lorencová. Now, Mrs Válková with a proper application. Before I can give her my word, I apologise for the reasons of work from 12.30 to 13 hours from Mrs Putnová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u78	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, do not expect me to paraphrase and repeat what has already been said here. Moreover, I stand firmly and consistently on the side of the protection of non-smokers from smokers in the sense in which the debate has so far been held here. This means especially in restaurants. In this context, I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that we have been dealing with this issue in the Czech Republic for more than 20 years. We have tried our practice - and our colleague Klán, through you, Mr Vice-President, has warned us that the experience is very valuable. I don't think that's what he wanted. We've tried what it looks like in practice. That there's smoke everywhere when there's no smoking in her section or just over lunch. Recently I was in a pretty good restaurant, almost luxurious to say. They had a separate space with a smoking and non-smoking expensive curtain, which looked very nice, but of course the smoke was released. So it's smoking everywhere and all the time. The only solution is a complete ban on smoking in the interior of restaurant facilities. And that's the original proposal from the Ministry of Health. That's how we approved it. We've also adopted this in the Constitutional Legal Committee, the Guarantee Medical Committee. This is also said by the World Health Organisation Framework Convention, which, of course, we have ratified. Therefore, I beg you that we really support a total ban. This means without the so-called - because the so-called here applies double, and it is Austria's experience that shows us that this is not a good way - without the so-called building-separated spaces. People with drinks or food will go there. They'll open the door. There's gonna be smoke again. So let's say if we want to vote at all. If we want to vote, we should vote on the amendment that returns the original proposal from the Ministry of Health. That means no smoking, no smoking in restaurant facilities. Plus marking the front yard, whether it's a smoker or not. Everyone backed up there, even inside me, which I originally wanted to cut the area down. But I admit, okay, the front yard is an area that's already outside a closed restaurant facility. So the only duty will be to make there an operator, respectively. The owner, he gave the mark - there's smoke here or there's no smoking here. Austria figured it out. That is why they have also passed a law which, as of 1 January 2018, if I am not mistaken, the month does not know exactly, there is a total ban on smoking in restaurants throughout Austria. Personally, I also think that if we now approved a compromise, a so-called compromise, we would not really have to approve anything, so that operators will rightly criticise us, because they will have to invest again. And knowing that someday someone will come here who will actually vote for the full ban. So in such a case, it is my intention to say that no law is better than such a bad, incomplete, so-called compromise law. If we approve of constructionally separated spaces, we will harm not only the operators but also the guests of course. Now the guests can at least see on the door that they smoke inside. According to one new proposal, all establishments from the outside would be labeled non-smoking, but smoking would actually be in this way, in the constructionally separated ones. So it's a total legislative pasculi. I don't want to be too critical, but I don't think it's worthy of this House. [[12.30 hours]] The Department of Health has been promising us a total ban on smoking for five years. I think our public deserved that we should finally start voting. So I'm shutting down my originally wider speech to make our vote clear our will whether we want a ban on smoking in restaurants or not. If we are just making excuses again, just as it was in the Chamber of Deputies in 2009. That's where it went. I hope we can at least show our opinion in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u79	Thank you, Madame Válková. I've got some real notes here, my colleague Snopek will wait. I have a factual comment by Mr Klán, Mr Vyzula, Mr Lorencová and Mr Urban. Mr Klán on a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u80	Thank you for the floor. Allow me to follow up on Mrs Válková's previous speaker. Austria took 20 years, since 1995 the law has been regulated, but it took them some time. They went the way of partial regulation. In my opinion, that partial regulation is better than going through full regulation, total ban. I have an argument to make. Partial regulation is better, because these people will gradually get used to it. Gradually, both operators and people, citizens, different guests, visitors, etc. Then we can see how we can evaluate it, whether it has brought any positives, negatives, and go to a complete ban, for example. I'm a non-smoker, and I don't have a problem with a total smoking ban. I don't have a problem with that, but I say we go the way of partial regulation. The countries in Europe also have it, France has it, Slovakia has it, currently Austria, Greece and others still have it. I was talking about it here. I say it's my view, it's my opinion, in my opinion it's a better way than going through a total smoking ban. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u81	I thank Mr Klán. Mr Vyzula now, then Mrs Lorencová, Mr Urban, and then Mr Bendl came forward. Those are factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u82	Thank you for the floor. I'm hearing a scare like this that we're going to vote 250 times that it's long. It's just the voting procedure isn't easy, it's complicated, we haven't reached it yet. When she's spoken, you'll see for yourself how demanding she is. But in any case, there are such possibilities that if one vote is taken, then perhaps ten, twelve, fifteen other votes will not be at all. I would therefore like to support from this point, on the one hand, the proposal by Professor Válková, which partially addresses this issue, and I would also support Mr Benda's proposal, because we are also going to lose a few votes. And otherwise, I think it's my last duty - I've talked about it repeatedly, but I think I have to say it, the opinion of electronic cigarettes and water pipes. I know there are other opinions here, and there's no point in discussing it in general. There's a whole bunch of online studies, when someone clicks on it, they can read all day. But just electronic cigarettes do some damage to the smoker, contain carcinogenic substances, the danger is just there. First from the point of view of cancerogenesis and, secondly, from the point of view of lung damage. And as far as the water pipes themselves are concerned, I have to say this too, because although the guarantee committee has passed that the water pipes could be released, let us realise that there can be up to a hundred times more tobacco than normal in that water pipe and it is a nicotine issue. And nicotine is one of the most dangerous addictive substances. As far as voting procedures are concerned, I know it's unpleasant. If I were the rapporteur and someone interfered with the voting procedure that I've been making for a few days, I wouldn't be happy, either, but I'd be asking for indulgence and approval here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u83	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mrs Lorencová, with a point of fact, then Mr Urban, then Mr Bendl. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u84	I must begin by saying that I am not really lobbied in favour of companies that produce tobacco products. My opinions are based on absolute, excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, intolerance to smokers, who, whether we want to or not, fill the Treasury with considerable amounts. And that's the second thing. I understand to some extent the effort to protect the health of those who do not smoke and do not want to destroy their health by breathing tobacco that they refuse. I understand to a large extent. What bothers me is militantness. It is - either you will not smoke at all and nowhere, without any exceptions. What bothers me, and not just me, I get it in different emails and in different notes from people I meet -- it's just that the law has a very militant form. And that's what bothers me not only. At least I miss a little tolerance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u85	Thank you, Mrs Lorencová. Mr Milan Urban is now also making a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u86	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. ♪ I've got Sváťa ♪ The German quite liked it, but I still have to say, it's been tilting what's normal around here. Is it normal for children in primary schools to take drugs? It's not. Is it normal for doctors and sisters to go abroad? It's not. Is it normal for us to take care of our seniors, our moms and dads so that we can be sure that they will have a peaceful old age? Is it normal for people not to kill themselves on the roads? It is normal for us to protect our European borders, etc.? I could keep doing that, and I think it's normal. Of course, you may be right, but is this the most important problem in this society? It's not. I think that it is sufficiently treated with existing legislation and that the way we are now dealing with it does not correspond to the importance and priorities that we have and must address in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u87	I thank Mr Milan Urban. Now Mr Petr Bendl's point of fact and then Mr Václav Snopek, if it comes to it. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u88	Thank you. I really did make two brief remarks about my previous speakers, who often used the argument here, or used the word operators, that we would restrict the operator there or onde and that we would decide here whether we would ban the operators from smoking in their premises and so on. I beg you, don't patronize the word owners. Why are you afraid to say "no to the owners or let the owners"? What we, the owners, still allow them in their restaurants. These are the owners who may rent someone their space where the restaurant is run, but often and in the vast majority, especially in small villages, the owners are also operators. Use the word "owners" to know what you're talking about. It's much more sophisticated so you know who you're actually banning, that it's not an imaginary operator, etc. And to the chairman of the Health Committee, when he says that an electronic cigarette doesn't hurt the neighborhood, but it hurts the person himself, he knows well that even overeating hurts the person himself, and if I go in the spirit of this, I'll probably measure every one of his - as they call it... body mass index or whatever it's called - if he's not too fat anymore, and they say, "You're not going to eat here today because it would hurt your health." And I don't think that's the right way to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u89	I thank my colleague Bendl for his performance. There is still a factual remark from Mr Fiedler, but I will not allow him to exhaust two whole minutes, even though he is entitled to them under the Rules of Procedure, but at 12.40 I will interrupt this point in accordance with the House's resolution. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u90	Very briefly, the point will be interrupted. I think and give the full truth to my colleague Urban. We have more important laws here that we should devote so much time to. For God's sake, let's put an end to this discussion and move on to discussing this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-05-04-ps2013-044-10-003-155.u91	This cannot happen because I have three registered for the debate, a colleague of Snopek, Martin Lank, Jiří Koubek. But the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies is that at 12.40 we will begin to discuss paragraph 226. [[12.40 hours]] So at this point, I'm interrupting point no. 155, the Government's bill on health protection against the harmful effects of addictive substances at third reading, with the fact that we interrupted before Mr Václav Snopek's speech. I thank the Minister, thank the rapporteur and interrupt this point. According to the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, at 12.40 hours we will be dealing with item number
