ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u1	231. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations On the agenda of the 47th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, a total of ten responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. We have eight so far to discuss. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: If the Interpelling Member is not present at the House meeting, there shall be no debate on the response to its interpellation, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further. We will now proceed to discuss the answers to the written interpelations. Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec responded to the interview of a Member of Zdeněk Ondráček on the equipment of police officers of the capital city of Prague. Interpelation shall be submitted together with the reply as printing of 741. The discussion of this response was interrupted in the presence of the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec. I am opening the debate and asking whether the Minister wants to speak. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to apologise to Mr Ondráček at the outset of this interview, because we have given two incorrect figures in the answer that went to him. We got the incorrect data from the police, so I'm going to ask why we got the data. Today they were supplemented, changed. First of all, we misjudged that instead of 456 cops, there are 452 spreadsheets, Mr. Ambassador, so I hereby correct the error of the interpelation. There has also been an error in the number of protective vests available. There's a total of 211 of these vests. The point is that we mainly discussed the situation, the vests, i.e. protective ballistic aids so-called after the expiration, after the period of application. These are 23, which means these vests after the expiration are 23. According to the police report, I have been informed that these vests after the expiration are used only and only for training. Police have been struggling with the problem of competition for ballistic protection aids in the long run. If we are able to solve the competition that is currently under way, we should therefore compete against the anti-ballistic and counter-strike or anti-traumatic ensembles this year. This would also solve the problem that Mr Ondráček has already pointed out several times. I wanted to set the record straight in the beginning with two readings that were inaccurately recorded in the interpelration. I'm sorry again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u3	Thank you, Minister. Mr Ondráček is reporting for the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for specifying some of the numbers. Why was I not satisfied with your answer? These are the equipment of the SPJ officers. That, Mr President, you left out - a permanent order unit of the capital city of Prague. These are the cops you see here in any emergency that, whatever it is, is a football game, whether it was a visit to the Chinese president now, whatever big action it is, in the past, the currency fund and others. These cops are so-called. First-timers. They are in the worst places, they are often in conflict with people after taking alcohol or addictive substances and attacks on them are quite common. They can reflect them because of their professional training, and therefore there are no major injuries. [[9.10 hours]] However, the security situation is that these police officers should be equipped with a sufficient amount of protective equipment, and I with a ballistic vest, possibly. gloves and other and other equipment, I consider counter-strike devices to be a basic means of protecting them from their work. I consider it something like letting a doctor operate in a hospital and not giving him protective gloves, if any. They left the miner behind and didn't give him the chance to use the respirator. These people, these professions that I have just mentioned, would certainly have made such a spectacle that it couldn't happen. We're still used to cops, firemen, just commanding them, and they're going to go and do the job. He will follow the order they received, but he is in the Police of the Czech Republic and the Police President's Office, but also on you, Minister of the Interior, to create conditions for police officers to perform the service so that this performance of the service can be carried out in good quality and that these police officers are sufficiently protected in the performance of their service. When I put you down, and we talked about it in the gallery, any kind of interpelation, it's not about fighting here. We are both doing the same topic and I assume that our common goal is for the Police of the Czech Republic to work and work at the best possible level. I mean, top-of-the-line. When I interpel, I usually know the answer. Because I still have enough people inside the police force, and my previous profession has taught me to ask officially something that I already know the answer, but I just need to give it to someone else's knowledge. Therefore, when I ask you a specific question - and the particular question was how many bulletproof vests for hidden and external wearing a permanent order unit has and how many of them are already after the expiration. Your answer at the time was: The unit has 411 vests. Without distinction whether they are for hidden or external wearing, and regardless of whether they are after expiration or not. That is why, of course, I could not accept such an answer, and it was similar to the question of how many anti-strike units a permanent order unit has and how many of them are after the expiration. Your answer was: Special Order Unit of Regional Police Directorate hl. m. Prague has 426 anti-strike sets. Again, no difference how many are after the expiration. After the expiration, most of them, at least according to my information. Now the vests. Why I wanted to wear hidden and outer wear. Policemen perform many specific tasks and even ballistic vests are different types. If there is a certain amount of vest for hidden wearing, it is worn so called. to the body. And if anyone has the idea that a cop takes off a vest like that and someone else wears it in 20 minutes or on the night shift, I'd like to see the look on someone's face if you guys at home took off your socks and put it on someone else to wear it again. I don't think any of us would like that. Ballistic vest should be for each officer of this order unit individually, if not for any police officer who performs tasks in direct service. I didn't want to discuss all the cops, so in this interview I mentioned only a permanent order unit of hl. m. Prague. However, there is a similar situation with other departments, because the Police of the Czech Republic currently has 16,000 pieces of ballistic missile vests of all types for its approximately 40,000 police officers. Sixteen thousand. That means, basically, every third cop wears a protective vest. If we take vests for external wearing, they are different types depending on what ballistic attack can be expected or supplemented. A standing order unit, by not being able to compete with the police leadership with ballistic vests, needed to carry out the tasks given and therefore had to borrow vests from the regional directorates so that police officers in Prague who carry out the most difficult tasks that are here in any way were protected. In some interventions, I criticized how tender procedures and tender procedures in the police work and that it doesn't work very well. You answer me that it's not so bad and that it's going well. I say, if everything goes as well as buying leather jackets for generals, possibly. other things that serve only for decoration, so it would be excellent. Unfortunately, some things aren't competing, and we can talk about shoes, we can talk about firefighters that can't do anything. But those are the people who are always in the first place, and if people are running away from somewhere, then these people are coming. And when I ask you, Minister, any question, it's not that I stir things up, but my point is that you read the question properly, you said, "Why is this Member Ondráček asking questions when he probably knows the answer and is trying to correct it in some way?" Because the answers that will be prepared for you at the Police Presidium, this type of thing that I'm asking for a specific thing, the specific distinction between the vests for hidden and external wearing, the specific thing about how many of them are after the expiration, because no one knows what that vest will do after the expiration, the same anti-strike device, and you answer me with the actual number 411, which isn't even right yet, then you can't be surprised that I don't agree with your answer and I have to transfer it to the House's soil. So to talk about it here, to try to find it in a common way, and it will be here for the Minister of Finance, the money for the state budget to the chapter of the Ministry of the Interior, because the basic means of health protection at work are worthy of these cops, because the security situation is such that it can be worse at any time. Minister, I can't agree with this answer, I'm going to ask you to say some new numbers now, but to give it to me in writing, including counter-strike resources, because they are after the expiration. Let's talk about it when we're going to add it to it, because there are some things that my head doesn't really care about in a peasant way. It was necessary for the badges of the criminal police you mentioned here. Now that I've received a text message that police officers working on criminal police and investigations are taking over the new badges that they finally get after six months, but they're saying that these badges can only be used at a temperature of plus 7 as the lowest temperature of up to plus 25 as the highest temperature, I'm asking if anyone has ever seen a police officer outside, because we've worked even at minus 20. If that badge breaks or melts at a higher temperature, I don't know. But the way you guys compete, it's stuff that doesn't take my mind off it. Minister, I cannot agree with this answer simply because you do not answer my question. I know the answer, but I would also like everyone who is here to know it, because we need the Police of the Czech Republic whether we want or not, but we need it, and we need it, so that it is not just top-trained, but also equipped, so that it doesn't happen that police officers will die in our service just because we are unable to provide adequate ballistic protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u5	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I ask who else is reporting for the debate. Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u6	Mr President, honourable Members, I agree with almost everything that Mr Ondráček has said here. There's no doubt that we need the police. The government of Bohuslav Sobotka has also given its great priority since its onset in the area of security, and I think that, after years of very bad money to the police, the funds have increased significantly, and I assume that they will also increase. About the counter-strikes, Mr. Ambassador. From my information, the Prague unit has 426 sets and only one is before expiration. That means, it's probably not true what you're saying, and I'm going to verify that most of it would be after a lifetime. On the issue of ballistics as such, I drive among police officers to the district department to meet in the regions and I am very well aware that ballistics is a long-term problem. And once again, I must refer to the fact that the suppliers failed to compete. The competition has been cancelled several times, and unfortunately, it simply extends on the basis of compliance with legal conditions, i.e. the Public Procurement Act. We will complete all the information you require, and I will, of course, find out why the police did not provide correct information in the first stage, and I will insist that the information be correct, because the Chamber of Deputies is an authority that has the right to true information. I'm sorry we weren't able to give the numbers that were true in the first answer. And believe me, I'm gonna get my order. If we succeed in this competition, we should buy 3,500 multifunctional units for the whole Czech Republic, which would significantly improve the situation. As far as Prague is concerned, because given the competition I was talking about, the Police Presidium allocated extraordinary funds to the regions, Prague received 4.4 million for ballistics this year, the other regions received 2.4 million I suspect. So Prague has been slightly favoured, even for the reasons that we are talking about here. The number of external ballistic vests on SPJ you talked about, so there are 152 of them, those for hidden wearing are 36. I have a table here where there's an expiration of which pieces, so I'll give it to you in the total written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u7	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is joining the debate. If I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I now appeal to Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, as proposed by the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on this answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u8	So many have been said. I said during the performance that I would disagree with the answer, precisely because the numbers or the answers were not given according to the questions I had asked. The Minister has promised to give me such an answer. So I would ask you to refuse an answer to this interpellation, and the Minister will give me a new answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u9	Okay, so you're proposing a disagreeable position. Yes, thank you. I'll call in colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. There is a motion for a resolution to disagree. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this motion for a resolution to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 262, 96 Members and Members registered, for proposal 25, against 38. No consent has been given to the proposal. Thank you. I'll read the other apologies I've received. Today, from 9 to 10.30 for family reasons, Mr Vít KaňkovskKaňkovský apologizes, Mr Jiří Junek apologizes until 12 o'clock for personal reasons, for health reasons for the whole of today's day, Mr Jandák apologizes, Mr Stanislav Berkovec apologizes for funeral in the family, and Mr Ivan Pilný apologizes until 12 o'clock for working reasons and from 16 o'clock until the end of the meeting for personal reasons. With the replacement voting card number 17, Mr Vondráček will be voting today. I'm opening another interpellation. Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec replied to Mr Zdeněk Ondráček's interpelation on overtime work in the important interest of the service. Interpelation shall be submitted together with the reply as printing of 758. The discussion of this response was interrupted in the presence of the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec. I open the debate and ask who is applying for it. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u10	Mr President, thank you. Colleagues, colleagues, I don't mind the fact that you turned down my proposal. The important thing is that we're discussing this and that maybe there's something to be done for these cops. My next interview, which I was not satisfied with, is called overtime work in the important interest of the service. Under Law 361 police officers are obliged, in the case of a regulation and in the case of an important interest of the service, to perform the service up to 150 hours so-called free of charge, free of charge overtime. And the problem is the interpretation of what is important interest in the service. There are already many judgments that determine what the important interest of the service is, but service officials who are obliged to perform the service often go around, and police officers are in charge of the service and subsequently receive the hours so-called green. It is a problem for all departments, although I must say that in recent months it has begun to correct. I have chosen one particular unit for this interpellation, what you might be interested in, and it is those colleagues who are standing here at the door you meet here inside the Chamber of Deputies, that is, security service. I have asked a few questions, but according to my information - and now listen to this - when we sometimes act here and decide how we act, how long we act, then we shorten. Police officers in the Chamber of Deputies, those who are assigned to serve will work annually - listen to the number - 31,000 overtime hours, of which 8,000 go into green, that means free. It's about 21,000 hours at the government's office, and 5,000 go green, nobody pays them. If you go out and ask any of these cops standing here how many hours they've had in this package by 150, and it's June 2nd, many of them will tell you that they're already behind a hundred, or some of them have already filled the 150. It's a problem, because the cops here are under the table, and if we decide to negotiate here by an hour, the two longer, the special meeting, those cops have to come in here and do the service here. Unfortunately, there are few of them, they are high, few of them are Prague, so they sleep here in the hostels, or they go all the way from the Moravian-Silesian Region to serve here for free 24 hours of the state, so that we can talk beautifully here, then we will not approve the agenda of the meeting and they will go home again - free of charge. Actually, no, they don't drive for free, they pay for it. [[9.30 hours]] So I am not going to propose a negative opinion on this material, but I would like the Ministry of the Interior and this department to arrange for police to avoid abuse of the institute of important interest in the service. In any case, Minister, if you're moving around here, you can ask these guys that whoever calls gets trampled down, no reward, no nothing. Ask the cops here how many annual fees they have. A thousand crowns a year? Five hundred crowns? Twelve hundred? How much does their superior have? Three hundred thousand, maybe even half a million, maybe he'll get a general's rank, actually, he already has. And the system isn't good, because if the cops serve the clock, they should get paid. Because the important interest of the service is defined in Act 361 otherwise. We've got a few convictions for that, and if a cop leaves for the spa, if a cop is in charge of a vacation, that's no reason for another cop to work for him for free. In that case, the department needs to find enough funds and either give the cops a spare leave or pay them the hours they've been served. Unfortunately, it's the police's way of getting word from individuals. Police are not able to get back together as the prison officers have done today, and apply to the state, to the Police of the Czech Republic, to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and to claim back in three years the compensation they should have. The members of the prison service in Borech did it. They sued, they won. There are currently several lawsuits in prison service that I assume will also win. And once the cops stop worrying and file mass lawsuits, you're gonna have to pour tens of millions into the Home Office's budget to serve that clock. So here I appeal that the important interest of the service be respected, that the hours served be paid to the police either as overtime, or as an alternative service leave, and those police officers could also be with their families and did not have to spend tens and hundreds of hours here for free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u11	Thank you, too. Mr Schwarz is reporting with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u12	Good morning, Mr. Vice-President. So, through you, Mr Vice-President, my colleague Ondráček described a situation for which - I do not need to stand up for the Minister - but the Minister cannot. He described reality. But I know that reality from my practice, and I haven't been on the force in eight or nine years. This is the current situation, but unfortunately, neither of the previous ministers could change it. It takes time. It's a long shot. And just what he described about cops, it's not just these cops. That's all the district departments, that's all the criminal services that even I, as manager, had it exactly like that, that's how I set it up. But unfortunately, it's not just here, it's really all over the police. It's gonna take a long time. I don't know what the Minister will say about this, but there's no need to label just these policemen. It is also worth noting that I know a lot of departments when they did not give them the rewards by bad planning the services and by the fact that their leaders were ravening. It's not the Minister or the Police President. I think it's individual. But the service is described as the reality of the Police of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u13	Thank you, too. I wonder if anyone else is joining the debate. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u14	Mr President, honourable Members, I did not understand very much that we are trying to put the commanders against the team by having rewards or general rank. General rank is a matter where the state expresses some kind of respect for a man who has served many years of the state. And the general's rank is not linked to any financial evaluation, at least I don't know about it. I respect all police officers and police officers, which is why I talk and debate and debate with them. And I'm sure it's not about the fact that they're supposed to defend themselves first and foremost. But the door of the Home Office and the Police Presidium is open to them. The debate is possible. We are currently in a situation where we are very well aware that the question of 150 hours is addressed by the coalition agreement. This is why I created a task force a few months ago, and there are representatives of the security forces in this task force. We are preparing to bring to the Parliament of the Czech Republic a draft amendment to Act 361/2003 so that it is clearly defined under which conditions it is possible to pay or use those 150 hours without entitlement to remuneration. And it will only apply to the law-proclaimed crisis situations and emergencies. Of course, this will bear certain financial demands. And, of course, before I go to the Chamber of Deputies, I asked the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic to discuss it with the Coalition Council. I'm worried about one thing, because that's a change in the service law that we've been defending for years, and that's primarily because of the debate about the bailouts, and I want to say clearly from this place that our amendment doesn't touch anything. We can't afford to cause a panic in the police by debating whether to cancel or cancel the debts. For my part, I am clearly saying that the benefits must remain, that they are part of the service and that I dare not come up with an amendment to the Service Act unless there is a general political consensus that this will not be affected. Mr Schwarz, through Mr President, nods to me because he knows the situation in the police. And that's where the whisper works sometimes. And yet, honourable Member, allow me to answer. I'm gonna zoom in really fast today to see if the cops actually sign that they can use a service badge between seven and 25 degrees. If that's true, I'm gonna ask the head of police if they're really serious.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u15	Thank you. This is Mr. Ondráček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u16	Minister, you answered me in your reply and said to me: If you have specific information from specific departments, I will be grateful for their provision in order to carry out a detailed thematic check in the area of ordering the service over time. I got a couple dozen e-mails from the cops who texted me. Most of them, of course, are afraid to sign, which I don't blame them for knowing the performance of the service. I'll read you one of the e-mails. I ask you to let me know how it goes with us at the first department of the Department for the Protection of the Deputies and Constitutional Agents of the Protection Service with so-called 150 hours. Unfortunately, I don't have the courage to sign under everything I tell you, but I don't want to cut a branch under me, which I'm sure you'll understand. To begin with, I would like to say that I do not mind going to work on overtime, but I would like to be adequately rewarded for it, for, as the basic charter of rights and freedoms itself tells us, one should be properly rewarded for the work. The days of slavery and free work should be long past and not present. There are several dozen people in our department who have 150 hours of free work every year. Personally, I'm one of them, like I said before. Personally, I don't have such a big problem with it, but I would like to be rewarded for working beyond my duties. But when you have a reward of CZK 1,700 a year, I feel like crying. With high-ranking officers, the rewards are higher than my annual income, and then for me to do a few hundred hours of overtime a year, there will be a ridiculous CZK 1,700 on the table. That's wrong. If at least 150 hours were paid off, you'd feel better right away. In our department, in order to fulfill the conditions of the important interest of the service, special holidays or serious family reasons are written in the request for vacation even though I know about the vacation a month in advance. In our country it is common that there are always several people for overtime, usually around five, but there are no exceptions to the number of ten people. It takes 29 people to cover the service in case there are no exceptional situations, such as France. Then, of course, the number of people in the ministry increases. But it can be said that there is virtually no day at work when at least one person isn't on overtime. The days when there's no overtime at work could be counted on the fingers of one hand. It is true that last year several new police officers were recruited, who are currently in school and will start coming back soon... and so on and so forth. Greetings satisfied - satisfied, not disgruntled - satisfied policeman. [[9.40 hours]] One of the cops even sent me an overrated service book. In our country, it is now an alibi system that everyone who goes on overtime writes the name of the person we go to, the so-called spa, the disease, the holiday. We don't have a proper vacation anymore, but only a special one, there's no proper vacation in the police. A police officer must be on leave for at least two weeks straight. But she's special, too. It is therefore valuable to photograph a book or plan of monthly services etc. I've taken a picture, or I've been photographed, and I can put it at your disposal if it's not read so that we don't trample anyone in the ground, because unfortunately that's how it works. I'm contacting you with information about the abuse of over 150 hours in the Karlovy Vary Region. The local manager of Sokolov territorial department, I will skip the names, ordered his managers of individual PPE to plan overtime to the same extent even unpaid hours within the fund 150 hours per year. In practice, it seems that, since February, overtime money is available, and in order to be able to draw that money, managers have at least the same amount of overtime paid to pair up with unpaid overtime. We were once rewarded once every six months, and later changed that we had to work off extra money, and at the moment we still have to serve free hours. This will then reduce your hourly wage by at least 50 percent. Tempting, isn't it? The colonel is so sure of his idea that in this instruction he issued his subordinate department heads in writing, but you will not find it in the essay. Unfortunately, I do not have this written instruction. We have a written instruction. Since, like here in the Karlovy Vary Region, there are other policemen who could tell you the story. I'm writing to you completely anonymously, unfortunately I can't even deliver the written evidence. I trust you'll understand me... etcetera. Traffic Police Officer: I work in Prague in the Department of Traffic Accidents and I must say that I have never experienced so many green hours for free and never heard from any of the other departments that he should, as is happening here. When I got here, I was told that I could write to myself, of course, but that my salary would be down, so they wouldn't recommend it. I was also told that I would collect the green 150 hours according to their calculation sometime in December, so also for the sake of not writing it down. So it seems to me that no one knows what's going on in this department, because no one prefers to write a green clock. Or worse, he knows, but he doesn't. Most colleagues prefer not to deal with the fact that they are free at work and suffer quietly. After all, it was only recently agreed that overtime would be paid after the night shift. Why isn't it after shift morning? In the case where a police officer leaves for a more serious caliber traffic accident just before the end of the shift, that's within 15 hours of the morning shift - in 15 hours the morning shift leaves, which ends at 17, 2 hours remaining. But you can't do it for them. He doesn't have a chance to quit at 5:00. A police officer, of course, then gets off on an accident, he has to finish it on the same day, he has to write it down in those systems. If he collects more accidents during the day, the standard for the morning shift is that you stay between 3 and 5 hours longer, more than less. It doesn't really matter if they're so-called small accidents that can be closed in a block on the spot... etc. So here's the exact description. A cop in traffic accidents drives a 24-hour shift or 12-hour shift, serves her up, gets hit by a car accident, and he's there for the next seven hours to process everything he has to process. Everything for free. This cop had the courage to sign and I've been in touch with him. Minister, that's just a list, a small list of what e-mails are. I can give them to you. You asked me to do it. I'm gonna be in touch with these colleagues, hoping their service officials are for finding the courage, not deafening, not stomping into the ground, not putting them off duty, but completely off-duty, because that would be even worse than what's happening right now. She's dark under that candlelight, but the police are meant to follow the law. Let's try to follow them in relation to the cops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u17	Thank you, too. This is President Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u18	Thank you for the floor. I do not want to enter into the substance of the matter and the debate that the Member is having with the Minister, but there are sentences that we should comment on. And those are the words "we all know well that anyone who calls will be punished." We understand that these people are afraid to be heard when they have fair demands. But that's a thing we shouldn't just cross over and say that's just the way it is. I think this is an unacceptable situation. I think everyone has the right to speak up, it needs to be properly investigated, either he should be right or he was wrong. Regardless of how it ends with some bullying, some writing of worse services, exclusion from the reward system, and so on. Here's where I'd like to hear the Minister say he's gonna discuss this with the chiefs of police. I mean, it's not possible if it's true that those ordinary cops are scared. I don't understand it, he shouldn't be afraid to hear back when they're convinced that they're not rewarded the way they're supposed to be, for example, if someone's convincing them not to actually show the hours they're working overtime without entitlement to pay. It's a system or a sense of fear that we should reject. Because if that's true, but of course I don't know, then we won't know the real picture of the thing. The MP here says there are three or e-mails - this one, I understand, had the courage to sign. But they should all sign up without getting some bad light on the part of the superiors for "allowing themselves" to criticize something, or for having allowed themselves to claim their rights. That's what I was interested in at the debate. And I do not want to debate what the Member asked him and how the Minister answered him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u19	Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. By your means, Mr Stanjur. Yes, you're right, all you're saying is just go outside the door of this hall and ask one of those cops who's been standing here, what happened after my interpelation and how it works. If they have the courage, and I believe those colleagues have the courage and will have the courage. Or you have people here who are on the Security Committee, so maybe they'll tell you. There are people who like to come here, serve 150, say, "Hey, I'm not gonna deal with it, just give me a break," but there are people who, one of the Moravian-Silesian regions, want to be at home with their family, and by the way, they're ordered to do free service, he's coming here, he's serving for free, he's going back. And that's the wrong system. Unfortunately, they are not organized and are not like those members of the prison service that one stood up. If the entire service here could do the whole shift, it would have to be dealt with. There's always one as their spokesperson, and he's stomped. And elsewhere, it's the same. That's why I took this unit, because I was saying, any of you who cared about this situation can go into that hallway, come out here, and ask those policemen what the situation really is and how they are served. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u21	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is joining the debate. Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u22	If you'll excuse me a little longer. When I joined the minister's office, we had police who had been underfunded for a long time, and police who had two police presidents. And I started going around those cops and going to some parts of the country. It was very interesting to look at police officers in individual regions. Because there were regions where I came and where it was such a gray flesh of people who didn't have an expression that just didn't talk, kept their mouths shut, had their heads down. I naively assumed he was afraid of the minister. So I was naive at the time. Eventually, I realized he was afraid of his commanders. I'm convinced that most of those commanders are no longer there, that it's changing gradually. And for me, the climate in the police is crucial. It's not about the cop getting dressed, paying the bill, it's important, but it's about having a certain psycho so they'd like to go to work. I'm trying to get the commander to be a bit of a dad for them, so he can caress them, but he can also punish them. It's so important that she's a good psychiatrist in the police. And here I agree with Mr Ondráček. [[9.50 hours]] If you have a specific one, Mr. Ambassador, I know that there are no unsigned specifics, give me the unspecific ones, too. There's nothing I can do but talk to these cops. And whoever has the courage to respond, there I guarantee him that I will make sure that he does not get punished for expressing his own opinion. The question, however, is whether or not all the information we say here is true. Take how many times the police have been under pressure over the past two years, how many cases have turned out to be, the media cut into this thing, so in a week, two, three, or a month, it turns out that the truth is somewhere else. I'm in favour of investigating, investigating, and putting clear evidence on the table. Ambassador, I can offer you one thing, and that is that I invite General Komorous, the Director of Protection, to open the debate on the Security Committee, to ask Mr Váňa to return to this subject. I am, of course, prepared at a time until the task force that prepares a change of law in relation to 150 hours of overtime that police officers work in so-called. Legal frameworks, so before it goes to the Chamber of Deputies from the pen of the Ministry of the Interior, to have the debate, of course, also on the expert committees whose members you are. That's all I'm saying. The task force should have its first output within 14 days, up to three weeks. So I'm going to come up with this, and I'm going to be happy to have a debate across the political spectrum. I also agree with Mr Stanjura that it is not acceptable for policemen to be afraid to speak up and defend their rights. We're totally in agreement here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u23	Thank you. Mr. Ondráček, Mr. Ondráček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u24	Minister, of course you know I'm not criticizing you. I know you've taken a lot of good steps for the police and Homeland. But you need to keep kicking you a little bit so you don't slow down and you can do more, too, because you can do more. [[entertainment in the hall]] You're a young man, so move around a little bit, and try to make it a little bit harder so the cops can say yes, that was a good Home Secretary, and we'll be happy with him. I'll help you at least with that checkup, 'cause the cops are gonna call me back, and of course I'm gonna watch if they don't stifle them. I'll give you some of the things I have, and I'll be glad to work with you on it. But that's what reality really is. And in addition to a number of good things, it is still necessary to compete with protective equipment and others, to raise money here from Mr. Vice Prime Minister for the Homeland, so that safety is greater, etc. [[points to the Minister of Finance of Babiš]] Thank you, and I'm done, Prime Minister, so you can talk today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u25	Thank you. Anyway, I personally recommend to motivate the Minister, not kick him. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u26	Mr President, I wanted to thank the honourable Member for kicking me, and I promise him that once we exchange the roles, I will repay him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u27	I wonder if anyone else is joining the debate. Mr. Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u28	Thank you for the floor. On the words of Minister Chovanec - I hope that will never happen. I don't want to live to see it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u29	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is joining the debate. It's not like that. If no one reports, I am done with the debate. I am now asking Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, as suggested by the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on this answer. [[Member Ondráček from his place: I do not propose.]] None. Okay. Thank you. I'm done discussing this interpellation. I'm opening another interpellation. Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's interview on tax collection. Interpelation, together with the response, shall be submitted as press 775. The discussion of this reply was suspended until the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Government of Andrej Babiš were present. I open the debate and ask who is applying for it. I see President Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u30	Thank you for the floor. When I wrote the interview, I assumed I'd get the data I wanted, and we wouldn't discuss it at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. Unfortunately, the answer is not complete, although I have to say objectively that I have received most of the data I have requested. In particular, I requested data on deductible items and tax discounts on income taxes. I wanted them for the years 2010 to 2015. Logically, the Ministry of Finance replied that in 2015 it would be in September. I so firmly believe that in September, the Ministry of Finance will automatically send it to me at the moment when the relevant databases will be filled, as contained in this reply. However, there are things that have not been answered, so I would like to ask additional questions and then say that I want to reject for myself the principle when I interpel the Minister of Finance and he will answer me: This data has an MPSV, please call for the address next door. Then I think the authorities can communicate with each other, and the Treasury officials could have requested those documents from the MPSV. That's what they actually call me: write that part of the interpelation again and send it to another ministry. That's what I think of the resortism and the fact that everyone is guarding their own turf, we should gradually demolish. And that answer has two parts. The first part concerns, in general, the number of discounts applied and deductible items, with the fact that there is a quantified to maximum number of impacts in koruna in the revenues of public budgets - I will not call the state budget because income tax is a shared tax. I understand that for many employees, the employer is filing a tax return. I don't think that's surprising information for any of us. But I expected the Treasury to make at least a qualified estimate. According to this response to the interpelation, the basic discount applies to the taxpayer in the Czech Republic, and it is therefore a total number per unit, 2 121 579 taxpayers. I am sure that this is much more because everyone is entitled to the basic discount, whether employed or self-employed. We cannot agree with the opinion or fact or number that we have economically active, who pay income tax, 2 million 121 thousand. And logically, this amount is the largest tax discount, or if you want to cut public budgets, or if you want public budgets to go out of business. It doesn't matter what we call it. And of course, if I have 2 million 100 times 24,000, you're going to figure out that it's 52 billion. But I would estimate, and it really is a rough estimate, and I would ask the Treasury to do that, that those taxpayers will be over four million. Logically. If you look at how many economically active citizens we have, how many employees we have, how many employees we have. And at that point, the tax discount, or if you want a public budget blackout, or if you want to cut public budgets, is over 100 billion. I wanted those numbers as a basis for discussing the discount for the wife and child tradesmen, so that we could get a picture of how many discounts are being applied today, how many deductible items are being applied, and how much, both numerically and in the sum of money, would restore the discount for the wife and children for the businessmen, but they have more than 50 percent of the tax base over the flat rate. [[Minister Babiš is on the phone, and he's saying out loud, "I don't know what to do. - Mr Stanjure turns to Minister Babiš.]] It's not up to me. I'm sorry. So first, I'm going to go to table two. Those are the M.E.D. numbers. They are for the years 2010 to 2014. Counts of the self-employed who used flat rates in all four groups. [[He's showing the chart.]] If you look at this table - and I want to remind you that in 2014, these are the last figures, the flat rates were limited by 2 million tax bases only for 30 to 40 percent flat rates, not for 60 and 80, it was introduced by this government - if you look at those numbers, you'll wonder why the government actually introduced the flat rate restrictions for craftsmen and private farmers? [[10.00 hours]] If you look at the numbers, you all have it in the House press, so the flat rate of 80 percent was about 138, let's say 140 thousand taxpayers who used it, but the average tax base was 90 thousand. And even after what you've pushed for, that is. reducing the option to 2 million, so it stays when you have exactly 2 million, so you have a tax base of 400 thousand, which is four times more than the average tax base before that restriction was introduced. It is exactly the same in the group where there are the most craftsmen who apply - these are other trades, so not craftsmen, I'm sorry, these are other trades, the most taxpayers who use flats, even if we don't know if it's the main or secondary activity, these are about 300 thousand. If you look at the years, it's fluctuating. Once it's 292, once 318, 327,000, in 2014, it was 305,000. Here, even after the restrictions you've imposed, $2 million, the maximum tax base would be $800,000. But the average, before the limitation, was 136,000, i.e. About six times lower than this. And remember who said everything here, how much higher the revenue of the state budget will be, how it is not fair and how it needs to be imposed. It is a pity that we did not have those numbers when we were discussing this in the Chamber of Deputies to see if it makes any sense at all. If you look at the current flat rate, which is used mainly for rent income, we can basically say it's almost useless, and we can consider whether we'll even leave it in tax laws, because in those four years, 2010, respectively. 2011 to 2014, this was used by 208, 266, 521 and 645 taxpayers. Not a thousand, but units. So let's see if it makes sense for ourselves to have a special category for hundreds of people with roughly five million taxpayers. Personally, I don't think it makes any sense. And the information I wanted, that is. How many of those patrons, if that's what I call it, virtually. tradesmen who have a flat rate, how much it has as the main employment ratio when I use terminology, or the main source of income, and how much as a secondary. That's what the finances said to me to go next door to Secretary Marksová and her office. So unfortunately, I don't know, which would be interesting, of course. Maybe I should have formulated the question better, and I should have asked, and I can still consider how many of them had more than 50 percent of their flat-rate income, i.e. These are those who are not concerned with the possibility of applying a discount on the wife and children. And if we look back at the discounts, the deductible items, and we just analyze the numbers, we'll find the deductible items again, for example -- it sounds very good, which one of us wouldn't support it -- the deductible amount under § 54 para. 4, support for research and development. And now I'm going to read you how many taxpayers use it every year: 2010 - 64, 2011 - 54, 2012 - 57, I could go on like this. The legitimate question is, although it is as if it is for a godly purpose: Does it make sense, such an exception to income tax? He doesn't. In my view, regardless of political affiliation, regardless of what we think, how high taxes should be, in the number of taxpayers, have an exception in the law or a deductible item - we can call it either way, depends on the terminology - which affects dozens of taxpayers, has no meaning. And maybe in 2014, the deductible item, i.e. not tax deduction, deductible item 110 either pays 15 or 19 % for the whole state 21 million. That means if I count fifteen, it's about three million, tax savings of nineteen, it's somewhere around four million. [[unintelligible]] But we've got the paragraph, we've got the box, we've got to check it, we've got to report it. Then, again, it sounds very good, the remuneration for further education, another deductible item, or exception. And again. The number of cases is in the hundreds. Once it was over 500, 525, once again I think it's room for debate, if we don't cancel it at all. Then the very same low number is the discount on the wife or husband who holds the ZPP/P card. I agree that these people deserve support, but if it isn't in the social system somewhere else, because it uses this deductible item between 170 and 230 people a year. In my opinion, these numbers are objective, and they are the basis for considering whether such deductible items are meaningful at all and whether they are unnecessarily complicated. I think we can simplify this, and that we could cancel these items when there's some next amendment on income tax. Perhaps, for their sake, a new income bill, as announced by a Member who knows the political run that the government will introduce just before the elections to another government, it seems to me not quite a good and tactical procedure. It may take the new government and continue to do so, but it is much more likely in our terms that the new or old-fashioned minister, new or old-fashioned coalition will look at it again, better etc. I don't see why not. Let's go to the basic items, that is, to those that are really important. When we look at the deductible items, the most significant is the item for mortgage interest, building savings, where the amount is moving, and is really significant, between 15 and 16 billion a year. So I'm assuming, above all, for individuals. This concerns roughly 400,000 taxpayers, i.e. that is indeed a high number of taxpayers. And here the incentive of the state to invest in their housing is met with the interest of citizens. Four hundred thousand taxpayers, now I don't know how many cases, maybe both spouses can share it, the interest paid, so it doesn't have to be four hundred thousand families, but I assume it's about four hundred thousand families, 15 billion, i.e. Some 2.7 billion will save these families on income tax and thus the State indirectly supports housing. And if you compare it to the amount that pays as state aid to building savings, those amounts are very similar in units of billions of crowns. What I think is surprising. I thought that larger deductible items would be supplementary pension insurance than life insurance, and it is exactly the opposite. This means who is interested and wants to think about it, so about 4.5 billion are deductible items for life insurance and only 1.8 billion for pension insurance. I think it's a pretty interesting practice that whoever's applying these deductible items usually keeps the tax return on their own that it's not an employer anymore, so these numbers here are going to be very precise. Here, Minister, I would ask if your officials could make a qualified estimate of the number of taxpayers, probably of the number of employees or of the number of economically active ones. I know some people can't reach it because they don't have that kind of income, but that's definitely going to be a marginal number, and in my opinion, the tax discount is going to be close to CZK 100 billion a year. And that's not wrong for you to understand as criticism. And then when you look at the debate, when we've already proposed to one of the last amendments to income tax to introduce flat rates, virtually. Put in place the possibility of tax reductions on wives and children, so suddenly we thought it would cost a billion, maybe a billion and a half, we can't afford that. That's why we wanted these figures to give us an overall picture. And if we say we have about five million, I'm really sorry about that, taxpayers, and those tax discounts, or budget cuts, or budget cuts will be over 100 billion, so we're talking about one, maybe two percent increase in those discounts, items for our citizens. In this case, for those who feed themselves and have more than 50 per cent flat-rate. If I were to come out of that number, that all of you, about 500,000, as you have in that table, were flat, that they all had 50 percent, which I don't know, but if I came out of that number, that's ten percent of the taxpayers. And we say that if we give them a discount so that it doesn't matter if a person is an employee or a self-employed person and can apply a discount to a child, that it is family support regardless of whether a parent is a self-employed person or an employee, we say one, one and a half billion - for budgetary reasons we cannot afford it. So consider for yourself whether the argument is sustainable and whether it is true. Even if it concerns everyone. [[10.10 hours]] Of course, I'm going to have to write an MPSV on that, and at the same time I'm going to write to the Ministry of Finance asking how many of them were over 50 percent. I'm sure you can find that out from those tax returns because there are separate parts and the system can definitely evaluate which of the separate parts is higher and whether the one who has e.g. flat rates, he could also apply a discount on children or a wife, because if it didn't exceed 50 per cent, of course he could have applied it. Because I think that's how we're supposed to do things right. Analyze the numbers we have, then try to figure out what would make a possible change, then compare it, and not just say it like that - and businessmen have terrible advantages and we don't give them the benefits of another... Well, look at the tax base. Even on the top floor. The average is 97,000. That's not a high number. And just for fun, I'm not really serious. Let us imagine introducing flat-rates for legal persons. And let's just imagine the highest one, that we would order all legal persons to have a flat rate of 80 percent. How would that raise corporate taxes? Dramatically. Dramatically! If you look at the income of the largest and most successful companies, imagine that 20 percent of their income is a tax base. I'm saying this because it's not fair that if someone has a flat-rate of 80 percent of their income, that it's suspicious that he's a black passenger of the system, that he doesn't contribute like those employees. I think we should stop making a difference and dig a trench and wage a war between employees and businessmen. Also from the documentation I have at my disposal, most of the employees are with small and small businesses - in the sum. So then the debate makes sense. In my view, these figures clearly show that our proposal for a refund is justified, that in this context the overall context of tax discounts and deductible items does not fundamentally deviate from the usual ones. And there is no need to lower the flat rate from 2 million to 1 million, which the Minister of Finance said might be a condition or a way to return the discount. Because if we go back to Table No. 2 and we imagine that this government coalition will vote to reduce the flat rate to CZK 1 million, e.g. at the flat rate of 80 percent, in which case the tax base will remain 200 thousand, but the average so far was 96 thousand, i.e. twice as low as the one possibly reduced. So, in our opinion, there is no reason for us to reduce flat rates, there is no reason for us not to return the discount on our wife and children to those who have more than 50 percent of their income when they apply flat rates. And there is room for simplifying the tax system and abolishing some tax exemptions just because they are completely marginal and are being used by tens or only hundreds of taxpayers. For all the others, a political debate must be held, if that is appropriate. And this is not the subject of this interpelation or the subject of any discussion on these numbers. I'm just suggesting I disagree because the two numbers aren't there. If the opposition doesn't pass, I'll give two additional written interpelations, one for finance and one for MPSV. But I'll repeat what I started. Objectively, I got the full majority of the data. By disagreeing with the answer, you all have it at your disposal. And it's one of the materials that we can use to discuss how to simplify our tax system, or rather. where there is room for tax reductions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u31	Thank you, too. I ask who else is reporting for the debate. Minister. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I've been apologizing since 9.50, because I was supposed to be at the G Electric meeting at 10:00. There's a management company here that wants to build a new aircraft engine plant in our country and employ 880 people. [[Noise on the right.]] Anyway, I put up with it. Well, I didn't understand the reflection of my colleague Stanjura, if it was a reflection on your next election program... I don't get it. You took that discount from the businessmen, and now you're debating how to return it. And we suggested we return the discount. You took it and you suggest you return it. I don't understand what's going on here. Your interpellation was done by an employee of the IRS for 60 hours. She's been taping the Adis we've had since 1993. Twenty-three years we've had him. Great IT system. She even talked about bullying. But, okay, they're gonna make it. The Financial Administration has a whole lot of other concerns today. We don't have people - we're 900 people short. And the Financial Administration collects taxes because we've introduced things that no one here has ever done. That's why we have a surplus budget. We have proposed a flat-rate tax discount for women and children, and there has been no agreement within the coalition, so we will certainly still be discussing this. And if there's a need for an MPSV, then of course we'll write an MPSV, I don't have a problem with that. So I don't know what it's about, the debate. I'm sure we'd be happy to welcome you to visit us. One more word about yesterday's lobbying for those free customs zones you declare export. You said it had no impact on the Czech budget. That's right. But these scams that are being done there have an impact on other countries in the European Union. It's approximately 1.2 billion. And we are part of the European Union and we are fighting tax and customs fraud throughout the European Union. So it's just about yesterday's debate. So I'm sorry, I have to go to this meeting. We will certainly be happy to reply in writing to the honourable Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u33	Please, Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u34	I'm not going back to the point that was yesterday. That's over, the debate is over, there's no point in distracting. I didn't really want to talk about it, but when the Minister made himself a loser who had to endure it, it was the fifth interpelatory day, and the Finance Minister wasn't here four times. And if he had written the data that he was so helpful to me about, "We'd be happy to give it to you," I wouldn't have gone to plenary at all. I didn't. And indeed, Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, I ask that the House's leadership deal with this. There is no way that a question about specific tax revenues is called bullying! What's so bullying about that? Look at the chart. I'm saying, by not agreeing to the answer, you all have it at your disposal. I think it's valuable data, but according to the Treasury Secretary, it's bullying. [[Minister Babiš off microphone: According to employees.]] Well, according to the staff. I don't think those employees are supposed to be there. If they don't want to give aggregate data on how many taxpayers we have, how do discounts work, like what? We need relevant data and relevant documents to make decisions. And that's not bullying. That's what I'm really strong about! It was a technical question. I've appreciated twice, now for the third time, that I've gotten the answer to most of the questions. In one, I questioned the number that I didn't think was real, and in one, I said you sent me to the MPSV. And now you're saying, "We're gonna send it in." Well, you could have been here three months ago, and you didn't have to be here today! If your people... That's how you could have been at the meeting, because the interpellation wouldn't have been in plenary at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u35	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is joining the debate. I don't see anyone. If so, in that case, I am ending the debate and I am now asking Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, as proposed by the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on this answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u36	For the sake of my opinion, the mistaken number of taxpayers who apply the basic income tax discount and the lack of tradesmen of the CFI, who have this as their main employment, I suggest that the Chamber of Deputies disagree with the answer. And if there's a disagreement, I believe the Treasury will supply the data. And if he delivers it, I'm not going to come to plenary for the second time with this interview. I promise you all that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u37	Okay, thank you. You are therefore proposing a dissenting resolution. I'll call in colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the dissenting resolution, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It's a vote with order number 263. 115 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 43, against 27. This proposal has not been agreed with. Thank you, and I'm done discussing this interpellation. Before we go any further, I'll read the apologies that came to me. Today, from 9.55 and 13 hours for reasons of work, Mrs Zelienková apologizes. Mrs Radka Maxová apologizes from 11 to 13 hours for reasons of work. Furthermore, from 14.30 to 18 o'clock for work reasons, Mr Berkovec apologises. Furthermore, for the sake of a foreign trip, Mr Stanislav Grospič apologizes throughout the day. I'm opening another interpellation. President Bohuslav Sobotka responded to Mr Marek Ženíšek's interview on China's growing influence on the Czech Republic. Interpelation, together with the reply, shall be submitted as printing of 779. The discussion of this reply was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. I open the debate and ask who is applying for it. Is the Member not present? In that case, we will no longer discuss this interpellation, and I am ending it. The Prime Minister is claiming priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u38	Thank you. I just want to point out that a member of the government is present, but there is no interpelling Member present. Here, very often in the Chamber of Deputies, there is a debate about the fact that ministers do not go to interpelations. I just want to point out the fact that MEPs don't go to interpelations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u39	With priority rights, Mr Laudát. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u40	Thank you. I confess that I do not know, Mr Vice-President, the reasons, but this is very pathetic of the Prime Minister. Here his first vice premier just moments ago showed another of his minutes of awkwardness and shame, when he is unable to manage his resort, that is quite clear. The only information we've learned is that when you require data that the Ministry of Finance should have without major problems, because they say it's to be decided, it's to be bullied. When officials are supposed to work, if that's what it is. I don't think these are decent gunfights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u41	With priority rights, Mr. Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u42	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, of course I do not want to make this an affair at all, I do not want to make it an object of controversy between the government and the opposition. I'm saying this in a perfectly calm voice, and I'm saying this basically just for the record, to make it clear that the relationship between the government and the opposition must be balanced. And if the opposition demands oral or oral discussion. a written oral interpelation at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, the Member asks that the item be placed on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies, the item is placed on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies, the relevant minister is counting on it, he will attend the interpelation. In this case, I, of course, came to interpellation. I've been waiting here the whole time for the interpellation to come. And I'm just saying the MP isn't here. That's just a statement. The next time we have a debate here about who goes and who doesn't go to interpelation, I think it's good to realize that sometimes even the MPs who put an interview on a member of the government don't come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u43	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Laudát with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u44	Thank you. Anything can happen. Okay, Prime Minister, 200 to 1 in your favor. To the detriment of your government. Then see how your government works. How much is there? When I look at the House, the ratio of absent Members versus this, we can count it to a percentage, if those present are 118 present, that's a lot more than 50 percent, versus one of the 18 or how many of you are sitting in that mega-government of this country. And you are even more paid than Members are paid. So please, I don't think your performance was adequate and appropriate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u45	Thank you. Since no one else is reporting, the next interview is at the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Kateřina Valachová. It was interrupted into the presence of the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports. Anyway, from today's meeting, the Minister apologizes until 14.30 hours for work reasons. Since the Minister is not here, there is no condition for us to open this interpelation. Yes, ma'am, as you rightly say, you are present, yes. [[Fischer]] We'll continue with the next interpellation. Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka responded to an interview by Mrs Miroslava Němcová on a visit to the President of the People's Republic of China and his delegation to the Czech Republic. Interpelation together with response shall be submitted as printing 813. The discussion of this reply was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. I open the debate and ask who is applying for it. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my written interview, which I addressed to the Prime Minister, I dealt with what took place in the Czech Republic during the visit of the Chinese President, i.e. at the end of March this year. The Prime Minister replied to me within the deadline, which was at the end of April, and he had exhausted the 30 days he had to answer. And today, we are actually getting to discuss the interpellation that has been going on for more than two months. And probably, I'm afraid they've already lost the intensity in society they had when we tried, for example, here in the Chamber of Deputies during an emergency meeting to answer some questions that concerned security interventions particularly against Czech citizens. But still, there's a reason to ask, even though it's been a while. [[10.30 hours]] So I asked, and the answer I got, I don't think it's enough for me. I have not been given the same specific answer to a number of specific questions that I have asked, which is why I have decided to transfer this subject to the Chamber of Deputies' meeting. However, before I approach all of you, even though you have it in writing, the content of your written interpelation and the content of the answer I have given to it, allow a few more words about the gunfight that took place here a little while ago about the absence or presence of Members or Ministers. I came to the meeting last week on a proper interpelatory day on Thursday, and the Prime Minister was not present. Earlier in the oral interpelations, the week before, I spoke with him on how he would ensure not only the participation of members of his government during the interview Thursday, but I was also interested in how he looked at the question that his Deputy Prime Minister, during the time he was meant to interpelate, was actually campaigning and, on the pretext of some urgent work tasks, he went to hand out doughnuts either in Karlovy Vary or somewhere else. Unfortunately, last Thursday, when this interpelation could already take place, the Prime Minister was not on some crucial foreign trip, for which we would of course have an apology, and we would not be concerned at all whether or not he was present, he did not have any - at least according to the excuses that were given here - health reasons or personal reasons, but in my opinion he said that when his first vice-chairman was campaigning at the time of the interview, he would also do it, and he also went on some planned trips here in the Czech Republic. He will certainly explain to me how important they were, how much benefit they were to the region or what all the negotiations he had attended there. To that I must answer that he, as Prime Minister and the man responsible for his team, must be able to organize work so that he can do both tasks outside the House and within the House. If he's doing it this way, he can't be surprised that a number of benches are empty here, I can't blame him that this morning, when Vice-President of the House opened our meeting, he told us who's apologizing for everything from the government today. For your reminder, I will just say that today, on the day when the interpelations are planned, they must take place by law, because if it is the day of the sitting on Thursday, there must be answers to the written interpelations in the morning from 9 to 11 a.m., and in the afternoon, the Prime Minister and the members of the government are responsible for oral interpelations. Minister Bělobrádek, Minister Brabec, Minister Dienstbier, Minister chovanec - here probably only in the morning, perhaps in the afternoon, Minister Jurečka, Minister Marksová, who, perhaps in the afternoon, should also be, if I have written this well, Minister Němeček, Minister Pelikán, Minister Stropnický, then Minister Ťok, Minister Valachová - perhaps in the afternoon too, and Minister Babiš, who has been apologizing since 9.50 a.m. In the end, he waited here for an interpellation, which he cut off so quickly to get out of here, and basically no reasonable debate led to the very substantive interpellation of the President of the Civic Democratic Party, Zbyněk Stanjura, in my opinion. That's just a comment when we want to talk about who's here or who's not here, how long does it make sense to make sure that his ministers are here, so I couldn't forgive myself for that information. Now, let her return to the subject for which I asked the President of the House to include in the agenda of our meeting the Prime Minister's reply to my intervention concerning the visit of the President of the People's Republic of China and his delegation to the Czech Republic. I have divided this interpelation into four sections which described various events or circumstances which, in my view, seemed strange to me and called for a more fundamental view of what actually happened. The first thing I asked the Prime Minister about was the words of the President of the Czech Republic Miloš Zeman, who circled the world, if I may say so, when the President of the Czech Republic was visiting China and there was a local television saying the words - I quote: "There were very bad relations between the former government of the Czech Republic, I stress the former government of the Czech Republic, because this government was very submissive, under pressure from the United States and the European Union. Now we are an independent country and the creation of our policy is based on our own interests." Mr. President Miloš Zeman said on Chinese television. I asked the Prime Minister how he assessed this statement, which, in my view, significantly changes our country's foreign policy and basically significantly undermines the ties that foreign policy has so far been standing on, i.e. the ties of the Euro-Atlantic, on ties within the European Union. So I asked the Prime Minister if he had dealt with the President during the preparation for such a crucial visit on this foreign position of the President of the Republic, whether they had discussed the subject, explained and what they had said about it. No specific answer to whether he even met with the president, talked about it, I didn't get it. I also asked because I understand that not everything has to be dealt with by the Prime Minister and the President, if the Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek met with the President on this matter - that is, foreign policy. I think that question is easy to answer. If you lay it down in the style "Did the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek deal with the President of the Republic in this matter?" It's probably not something you expect to know either acted or didn't. But I didn't know that, which is why I can't be satisfied with this answer either. I also wanted to know why the Prime Minister did not agree with what the President of China's television said, why he did not speak out against these words. I do not mean in the style of confrontation, so I think it is right that things should be resolved more calmly, but even if the Czech Republic and its citizens have dealt with these words for a few days, that we have finally become independent and that we have escaped from the pressure of the United States and the European Union, I was expecting the Prime Minister to say something about it, because it is not just a slap in the water that I dare say the President makes us happy very often. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] However, I also asked whether, if he did not agree with this definition, why he did not reject it, but also, if he agrees with it, if he thinks that we really were somehow bound by both the European Union and the United States, so as to bring us closer to what it was, what the pressure was, how it was shown in our country, what kind of pressure it was. In this situation, I must remind you that, in the past, when the current Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka was the leader of the opposition, he often criticized the then right-wing government, whether it was Mirek Topolánek or Petr Nečas, for not being pro-European enough. Whenever the issue of foreign policy was opened, this criticism fell towards these governments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u47	I am very sorry, Madame, but I would like to ask my fellow Members to remain calm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u48	Thank you. I'd like to remind you that when it comes to--
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u49	I'm sorry, the peace is also for the conversation of the club bosses and the Prime Minister. Thank you. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u50	I don't know if I should wait for the gentlemen to explain, because after all, I am speaking especially to the Prime Minister. It would probably be stupid to talk to him now that he has something else to deal with, and then he could hardly respond to what I'm saying, so I'd rather wait. [[The Prime Minister finished his interview with the chairman of the TOP 09 Laudat Club.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u51	Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u52	Thank you. I asked - I will go back to the European Union and whether she has been exerting pressure on us or whether the Prime Minister agrees or does not agree with what his position is. There was no answer. So I would just like to remind you of what we have witnessed during this and last year on the example of the migration crisis - and this has a relationship with the European Union and whether our government feels under its pressure, as the President claims, or does not feel under its pressure. In February 2015, on 14 February, I proposed to the Chamber of Deputies a resolution on the migration crisis, which made it impossible for us to accede to the system of mandatory quotas. Yet, in the end, the government approached him in at least the way that it did not join the action brought by Slovakia to the European Court when the quotas were enforced. This March, I proposed to the Chamber of Deputies to resist the European Union when it concluded an agreement with Turkey, and we did not agree to the simplified visa-free treatment with Turkey. The Prime Minister then replied that this position of the House is not interesting to him, that he will not actually follow it. Then again, there were opinional highs, but the direct first answer was, after the House adopted this resolution on my proposal, that the Prime Minister was surprised and would not follow it. So I wonder what the pressure from the European Union on the Czech Republic looks like, what the government doesn't like and how it resists. That question was not answered either. I raised the second series of questions in connection with securing the Chinese visit to the capital of the Czech Republic, when I asked about Jaroslav Tvrdík's special role in preparing the entire visit. I asked the Prime Minister if he thought that the activity of the mixed Czech-Chinese Chamber of Commerce or the company, now I don't know exactly what his name was, was in the guard, how similar visits took place, and how similarly some groups from within the Czech Republic were involved. I believe that, like the comments that have been made on this matter, this was a highly above-standard engagement from Mr Tvrdík. Some comments even later argued on the basis of trade promises made here that the biggest profits from this visit would be the companies with which Jaroslav Tvrdík is connected in some way. I've read what I'm saying from public sources. The Prime Minister says nothing in his reply to Jaroslav Tvrdík's address. I find here that it was actually standard, that the involvement of representatives of various mixed chambers and non-state actors in the preparation of foreign visits is not an unusual part of the preparation of these events. Forgive me, I didn't ask if it was usual or an unusual part of the visitation. We all know that some groups are always involved in these preparations. I was wondering how it was specific. If there really was any cooperation between the government and this chamber, if they shared the tasks of who was the chief liaison officer who worked with the government to prepare this visit, with the government, with the Castle, with this chamber. That would certainly be important for us to know, but the Prime Minister's reply does not imply that. I wanted to know -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u53	I apologise, madam, but once again the noise level has exceeded the tolerable limit. I beg you to continue when the House is down, or I will stop the negotiations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u54	I wanted to know what the Prime Minister's opinion was on the deployment of the police during the visit of the President of the People's Republic of China. In particular, I asked how police interventions against citizens of the Czech Republic were assessed and, on the contrary, not interfering with aggressive Chinese demonstrators. I asked the Prime Minister - I quote: "Did you see the footage of Chinese protesters attacking the older lady, attacking the men on the tram, attacking the trick-or-treaters, attacking the photographers? Do you intend to apologize to these citizens for the government?" I think these questions are so understandable that they can be answered, but not in general, as the Prime Minister did. That's why I can't be satisfied with the answer. In the third block of questions I asked about the activities of the Embassy of the People's Republic of China in Prague. I asked the Prime Minister what he knew about the involvement of the Embassy of the People's Republic of China in organising Chinese demonstrators during the presidential visit. More information on the organization of those Chinese Protestants was provided by some servers, IHNED, Echo24. I quote the words of one of the participants of the seminar that was to take place at the Chinese Embassy: "We met on Friday at the Chinese Embassy in Prague where we were to receive instructions for the event to welcome and support the Chinese President. The recruitment took place through various unofficial organizations, Chinese employees of Huawei or associations as literary, association guides and other associations. Each group of ten had a leader. From the head of the consular department, we have been warned about sensitive subjects of Tibet or human rights. We were given instructions on how to behave when someone was protesting the visit. We're supposed to scream at first, but we're not supposed to be afraid to lay hands on them, but, if possible, not hurt people. Tear the flags down." The embassies were to be equipped with flags, banners, t-shirts, sirens, food for three days. All of this comes from that statement that was published in public sources. I asked the Prime Minister if he knew anything about it. There's not a single word in that answer. I asked him about Huawei's company, which is mentioned in the quote of a participant in the anti-Czech seminar at the Chinese Embassy. I asked him if he knew about this - once again, I must say that I only drew from public sources, I have no other information - that Huawei has disabled Australia due to security risks from the tender to build a nationwide high-speed Internet network. I asked if he knew that this producer of telecommunications equipment was designated by the American House of Representatives' Intelligence Committee in 2012 as a security risk and recommended that he close the US market. I asked him if he knew that Huawei had actually withdrawn from the United States in response to suspicion of cyberespionage. I asked if he knew it was similar in Canada, and in particular I asked if after all this he considered the company's activities risk-free for the Czech Republic. We are now witnessing its massive entry into our market, so I think that this issue is relevant and it is necessary to urge an answer. I asked if the Prime Minister called on the Minister of Foreign Affairs to examine information about the Chinese Embassy's activities. I have no answer here whether Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek was tasked with the Prime Minister to investigate what was going on at the Chinese embassy. I asked him how he would proceed if this information was true. There is only one sentence in the Prime Minister's reply, and this is as follows: "If it were proved that any representative office urges the compatriotic community or foreign nationals to do activities that are not in accordance with the laws of the Czech Republic, then our party would react strongly." Well, the evidence that the various media brought was a lot, and I think it was a question from the point of view, if anyone was dealing with the Chinese embassy, that someone must have been the Foreign Affairs Minister, and if he was finding out how the preparation was taking place at this very embassy. Again, according to the testimony I read, the preparation was also directed against Czech citizens. I asked if the President had information about who the commanders were, in quotation marks I have it written by the individual groups of Chinese protestors, because the witness said they were divided into groups of ten. We have seen in various shots someone or some person who could certainly be labeled as a commander, because it was always a group of Chinese ladies and gentlemen, and the moment something snapped, someone who started to drive them appeared. [[10.50 hours]] Even from the television footage, we learned that one group was run by just one member of the Chinese representative office in our country. I don't know exactly what his position is right now, if he's the Ambassador's deputy, but the evidence of his activity has been sufficiently proven. He himself in the TV show that we saw repeatedly, says that the police had nothing to do with the Chinese demonstrators there, because he is a representative of the Chinese Embassy, and in this way he enforced obedience to the Czech police and the Czech authorities in relation to him and those Chinese demonstrators. Unfortunately, I didn't get an answer to that question, even though we saw people on camera who are certainly easily identifiable, and if asked about the Chinese embassy, it would be possible to talk about specific persons. I also asked how the Prime Minister looks at the BIS administration in this context, from which I quote: In the case of Chinese power and its intelligence services, 2014 was marked by the emphasis on influence infiltration into Czech political and state structures and the collection of political intelligence, all with the active help of some Czech citizens, including politicians and civil servants. So I understand that the BIS report has its public part, its non-public part. I also quote the public part, but my question is whether, on the basis of this report, which is certainly deepened by more specific information in a private part, the Prime Minister has set up a regime that could prevent Czech politicians and civil servants, in particular, from being those who help the Chinese Embassy's political intelligence in our territory. How he dealt with this, what he concludes from this, whether the government, for example. requested some regular information in an interval of monthly, quarterly or not, so that it had an accurate overview of what was actually taking place on this side of our territory. The answer is zero. I also asked about the protocol of the visit, especially the part that we could follow, e.g. in the live broadcast of Czech Television, when it carried the ceremonial act of signing various memorandums of cooperation at Prague Castle with various representatives of the Chinese Government and representatives of the Czech Government. I asked why Minister of Culture Daniel Herman was not invited to the Castle on this occasion. You may recall that a few days before the Chinese President's visit, the minister here in the Chamber of Deputies suggested that we honor the memory of 80,000 Tibetan monks who were murdered by the Číňan in the 1950s. This memorial event took place here. But immediately after the representative of the Chinese Embassy according to the Czech Press Office visited the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with an urgent complaint just about Minister Herman. He therefore stated in this complaint that we were just before the Chinese President's visit and that - citations - this act could harm not only the President's visit, but also the overall positive direction of current relations. As a result of this position of Minister Herman was probably not invited to Prague Castle, although it was stated in the media that, in addition to the memorandum signed there, the Czech Government is also going to formulate some further steps in the bilateral cooperation programme, that the first proposals for such cooperation will be submitted in June - which we have today on 2 June, so we could probably see some of these proposals on paper - and that some of these proposals will also concern culture. Minister Herman, in an immediate response after the television broadcast, said that he was not aware that he was going to cooperate in this sort of way, and that he was not invited to do so, and it seemed to me that he was rather surprised by it. The Prime Minister tells me that the Minister of Culture was not a member of the national delegation during the visit of the President, since the guest was not represented by his representative counterpart and the negotiations with the nature of the matter did not concern the ministry. If the Czech Press Office brings information that memorandums have been signed and that during them it has also been confirmed that cooperation will continue in various 15 areas, whether it concerns rail transport, air transport, I do not know what other areas, but also culture, so I think that this answer, therefore, Prime Minister, is not entirely correct, and although I am aware that you and the Minister of Culture have probably already somehow merged and agreed on this matter, the first responses he has had indicate that he has not been invited because he has become uncomfortable for the Chinese party. I was wondering how the Czech Government could like this, such a selective approach to some of its members, and your answer was such a bland, unbearable one, from which absolutely nothing can be chosen. That was a few things I wanted to mention about the whole visit. I regret that the specific questions I have asked, and I stress in particular the activity of the Chinese Embassy in the Czech Republic, the way it instructed the citizens of China living in our territory to intervene against Czech citizens, that we are enjoying it and that the Prime Minister will not clearly stand up to it. This was probably the core of my interpellation. Everything else I mention is also important. But to let our own citizens be invaded by some Chinese organized fighters and pretend I don't know anything about it, and to close my eyes to the clear documents that have been transmitted by various television stations in this matter, that seems unworthy of the Prime Minister. He is the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, he is the Prime Minister of the Czech Citizens, and he is not here to defend the completely unacceptable steps of the Chinese Embassy, which basically blackmailed the Czech Republic in the style of either doing everything we want, or forget that there will be trades that we promised you in parentheses: from which only someone will benefit, and it will certainly not benefit the whole Czech Republic. Those were my reservations, which is how I wanted to make them a little more extensive. I'm aware that time may not give us time now to discuss all these questions even more thoroughly here. It will matter now whether the Prime Minister will be willing to continue discussing this matter or whether he will be as brief in his speech as he was in the answer he sent me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u55	Thank you, Mrs Němcová. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. However, there is about a minute and a half left for the debate. Therefore, if there is no objection to my procedure, I will interrupt this interpellation, and we will continue in a minute and a half. I'm terminating the government's response to written interpelations and we'll continue with the proper program from 11 o'clock to 1 minute. [[11.00 hours]] It's 11 o'clock, and we're supposed to move on to the next points of our morning meeting. However, before that happens, we will deal with any changes to the programme. Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek, President of the ANO Parliamentary Club, applied first to the amendments to the agenda of the meeting. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u56	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President. Allow me, on behalf of our club, to propose a fixed inclusion of points for tomorrow, namely the first points of negotiations after the third readings: item number 40, insolvency law, first reading, item 43, law on international judicial cooperation, first reading, item 19, act on modified organisms, second reading, point 49, law on nature conservation, first reading, point 50, Act on substances harmful to the ozone layer, first reading, and point 45, Act on the operation of motor vehicles, first reading. I repeat: Friday 3. 6. as the first points after the third readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u57	I thank Prime Minister Faltýnek. Another duly signed up is Mr. Chairman of the KDU-ČSL KDU-ČSL Jiří Mihola. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u58	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to ask for a solid inclusion of points for today, after paragraph 233, which will be the first, these are the proposals of the Chamber of Deputies to lend or award state honours. Thus, following this point in the inclusion of the following three points: paragraph 46, which is a government bill amending Act No. 154/2000 Coll., on the breeding, breeding and registration of livestock and amending certain related laws, the so-called breeding law, it is the House press No. 616, also paragraph 47, which is the Government Bill on fertilizers, soil aids, auxiliary plant preparations and substrates, and agrochemical testing of agricultural soils, in short, the Act on fertilizers, i.e. the House Print No. 669, and finally also point 48, which is the Government Bill on the circulation of forest reproductive material, forestryly important species and artificial crossbreeds, in short, the Act on trade in forest reproductive material, which is the House Print No. 732. So please, these three points for the first point mentioned, the state honors. Thank you in advance for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u59	Thank you, Prime Minister. With another proposal for a change of programme, Mr Seďa. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u60	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to propose a firm inclusion of paragraph 74, House press 378. This is, please, the one that we were supposed to discuss yesterday, which was firmly included as item 48, which is House Press 732.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u61	Please, point 74, its name.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u62	Yes, I'll do it again. It is paragraph 74, House Press 378, and it is a law on compensation for loss of employment for political reasons between 1948 and 1989 for former professional soldiers and employees of the Department of Defence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-06-02-ps2013-047-07-001-231.u63	Yes, the Indemnity Act. Well, thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is applying to change the program. This is not the case, so we will vote. First, we will vote on President Faltýnek's proposal, which he proposes tomorrow, Friday 3. 6. as the first points of negotiations after the third readings, points 40, 43, 19, 49, 50 and 45. If there is no objection, I will vote on this proposal en bloc as a whole. We don't have to vote each point separately. There's a check-out request. I'm signing you all off, please sign up with your voting cards. I started the vote on President Faltýnek's motion to include points 40, 43, 19, 49, 50 and 45 tomorrow as the first points after the third readings. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? The vote is 264, 127 Members and Members are registered, therefore 76, against 1. The motion was accepted. In addition, President Jiří Mihola wants to place, after paragraph 233, points 46, 47 and 48 today, on breeding, on fertilisers and on reproductive material. These are all the points of the Minister of Agriculture. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 265 vote, 131 Members and Members are registered, for 74, against 8. This proposal has also been adopted. The last proposal - Mr Antonín Seďa, wants to include paragraph 74, House press 378, after just received or included item 48 for today. I am opening the vote on Mr Sedi's proposal. Whoever is in favour of the Indemnity Act after paragraph 48, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? The vote is 266, 135 Members and Members registered, for 74, against 7. This proposal has also been adopted. This has dealt with the agenda of the meeting and we will continue with today's meeting
