ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-009-046.u1	46. Government bill amending Act No. 284/2009 Sb., on payment services, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 745/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, Mr. Andrej Babiš will present the proposal. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-009-046.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly present to you the Government's bill amending Act No. 284/2009 Coll., on Payment, as amended, and other related laws. This draft law implements the European Directive on Payment Accounts and the European Regulation on interbank fees for card transactions. The bill brings several important changes that strengthen the consumer's position in the payment services market. Prior to the conclusion of the contract, consumers will receive a standardised document stating the fees required by the bank in relation to the payment account. With this document, clients will be more easily able to compare individual offers. Every year, consumers will receive an overview of all the fees paid in their bank for the previous year in connection with the payment account. [[12.40 hours]] Banks will be obliged to use uniform terminology in their tariff and business terms, which will facilitate customer orientation. There will be rules on the operation of websites that compare payment account fees. Consumers will be able to easily transfer an account to another bank, while maintaining the setting of permanent orders and direct debits. The aim is for consumers to simply change the bank if they receive a better offer in another bank. Another change will be the bank's obligation to offer a so-called basic payment account at a reasonable price. Each consumer residing legally in the European Union, irrespective of nationality, residence, minimum income or other restrictive conditions, shall be entitled to the basic payment account. The draft law envisages that the adequacy of the price for the basic payment account will be assessed on the basis of the content of the specific account, in particular with regard to the normal market price. Another reason for the amendment is to adapt the Czech legal order to the European regulation on interbank charges. This Regulation establishes the maximum permissible amount of so-called interbank charges and certain other obligations in connection with the execution of card transactions. The regulation is directly effective, the bill only sets fines for its infringement and determines the competent supervisory authorities, which are the Czech National Bank, the Czech Trade Inspection Authority and the Office for the Protection of Competition. Ladies and gentlemen, in the light of these arguments, I ask you to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-009-046.u3	I thank Mr Vice-President of the Government and Finance Minister Andrea Babiš for presenting this press and I ask the rapporteur for his first reading, Mr Adolf Beznoska, to present his report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-009-046.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, dear colleagues, allow me to briefly sum up this House's 745 press. It is another one of the standards that is merely a transposition based on the EU's request. The design itself has a large number of solutions for this transposition. These variants are evaluated in the print document and the final form of the bill is formulated on the basis of this evaluation. A number of comments were submitted in the framework of the comments procedure, but in particular from the Czech National Bank, some of which were accepted as justified. On the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, we can then discuss the options and possible amendments. However, given our commitments to the EU, we should adopt this bill. Indeed, consumers will feel the main benefits of this adjustment, as was said in the Minister's words, which will improve their position on the financial market and, in particular, through greater information. On the other hand, this adjustment will provide additional costs to credit institutions, in particular with the necessary adjustments to their information systems, which will be necessary to adapt to changes. Costs shall be incurred because of the obligation to align the identification of services associated with the payment account and the introduction of a change in the payment account. Credit institutions will also have to spend the cost of keeping basic payment accounts. The law therefore brings a number of measures that affect the financial market. Let me remind you of at least the most important ones. First, a new obligation will be introduced for credit institutions to offer a so-called basic payment account at a reasonable price. The proposal states that the appropriateness of the price should be assessed in particular in view of the normal market price. According to the proposed bill, the Czech National Bank will exercise supervision of compliance with the obligations of payment service providers. For the next one. The Act provides for an obligation to unify payment systems, rules for the operation of comparative websites and mandatory to enable the payment account to be changed. This should improve the awareness of clients. Furthermore, the maximum permissible amount of the so-called interbank charges and certain other obligations of payment service providers, card schemes, card processors and traders in connection with the execution of card transactions are set. The draft law also provides for administrative offences for infringements of the obligations arising from the regulation and determines the competent supervisory authorities, which are the Czech National Bank, the Czech Trade Inspection Authority and the Office for the Protection of Competition. It is therefore clear that the adoption of this law will further strengthen regulation in the financial markets. And every regulation with it, as you know, also brings a certain degree of inefficiency. However, since these regulations relate mainly to large entities, which often operate on oligopolistic markets, it can be said, at least in the area of awareness-raising, that this law can also have a positive impact on consumers. Thus, the problem remains an increase in costs for the bidding part of the financial market, which could hide its higher costs to consumers, which could result in a slight increase in some services. The law also sets out new obligations for the Czech National Bank and the state authorities, which will bring additional demands, especially with a personal and financial impact. So much for my intelligence report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-13-ps2013-044-02-009-046.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate. I'm saying I don't have a written application for it, and I don't even see anyone checking in from the scene. So if no one's reporting, I'm done with the debate. This also means that there has been no motion for a return or rejection, so we will deal with the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. We will proceed to vote number 101, which I have begun, and I ask who is for the commandment to the Committee on Budgets as a committee of guarantee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 101. Of the present 170 for 154. The motion was accepted. The Guarantee Committee shall be the Committee of the Budget for Press 745. I note that the Organising Committee did not propose to order this proposal to any other committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? Anyone else want to order another committee? It's not like that. I therefore note that the Committee on Budgets is a committee of guarantee, and no other committee is ordered by this press, with a deadline for discussion remaining under the law for 60 days. I conclude item 46, thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. If it goes this fast, I'm sure there are other things we can do. And we have a point number in front of us.
