ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-002-061.u1	61. Government bill amending Act No. 296/2008 Coll., on the Quality and Safety of Human Tissues and Cells for Human Use and on the Amendment of Related Acts (the Human Tissues and Cells Act), as amended (the House Print 810/ - First Reading) On behalf of the Government, the proposed proposal will be presented by the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-002-061.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly mention the Government's proposal for a law amending the law on human tissues and cells. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] The aim of the bill is to secure the transposition -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-002-061.u3	I apologize, Minister, for entering your speech. But please your colleagues, especially in the left, if you have a need to discuss anything, go to the lobby and don't disturb the minister. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-002-061.u4	The aim of the draft law is to ensure the transposition of Commission Directive 2015/565 of 8 April 2015 amending Directive 2006/86 as regards certain technical requirements for the coding of human tissues and cells and Commission Directive 2015/566 of 8 April 2015 as regards procedures for verifying equivalent quality and safety standards for imported tissues and cells. To this end, in particular, the procedures necessary to establish uniform rules within the European Union for the import of tissues and cells from third countries are complementary in order to ensure a high level of protection of human health. This is possible through the introduction of procedures for verifying equivalent quality and safety standards for imports of tissues and cells, establishing a programme of approval and inspections reflecting the verification process established for tissue and cell activity carried out in the Union. Another objective is the introduction of a single European code that will facilitate the traceability of human tissues from donor to recipient and vice versa. This transposition amendment is closely linked to the Government's proposal for an amendment to the transplant law, which is also primarily a transposition regulation and is included in the negotiations as House Press No. 811. The deadline set for implementation for both directives is 29 October 2016. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, given that the proposed legislation should bring about greater security for the provision of health services in the use of tissues and cells, you will support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-002-061.u5	Thank you, too, Minister. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Leoš Heger. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-002-061.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Government presented to the House a bill, which was mentioned here by Minister Němeček, on 11. 5. 2016. The bill was sent to Members on the same day as printing 810/0. Then the Organising Committee discussed the bill and recommended on 12. 5. By way of derogation from Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the Commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 278 has identified Leoš Heger's rapporteur and proposed the Committee on Health as a committee of guarantee. Minister Němeček presented the formal introduction here. Let me, therefore, add a few more words to give a more detailed explanation of the objectives of the transposition, which can be formulated as follows. Globally, the exchange of human tissues and cells for treatment is constantly increasing. There are still no common rules for imports into the European Union of tissues and cells from third countries on the basis of which the quality and safety of tissues and cells imported into the Union from third countries would be established. It is therefore necessary to lay down uniform rules for the Member States of the European Union in order to ensure a high level of protection of human health. The rules include in particular verification of equivalent quality and safety standards for imports, rules for inspection and traceability of tissues and cells from donor to recipient, and vice versa. In order to allow traceability, it is necessary to establish a unique identifier, the so-called single European code, to be applied to tissues and cells distributed in the European Union. Information on donation and tissue establishment responsible for tissue and cells collection can be found on the recipient's side thanks to the single code. On the donor side, tissue equipment responsible for tissue and cell sampling may trace tissues and cells distributed for human use. So much for the main objectives of the transposition. In addition to the transposition, there are several minor legislative terminology changes of a formal nature in the amendment, which probably need not be commented on. It is worth mentioning that the amendment will lead to a certain increase in public budget costs. The professional activities carried out in connection with the examination of the application for authorisation of the activity of tissue establishment, including the authorisation of the activity of the importing tissue establishment, shall cost 63 thousand. Permission is issued by the Institute for Drug Control. At that time 68 tissue establishments are registered in the Czech Republic and their number is estimated to increase by about five establishments per year to bear these costs. I note that this sphere includes not only typical complex tissue establishments of the type of tissue banks and new complex tissue centres, but also widespread commercial and high-profit reproductive centres, but there is no need to worry about high costs in this sphere, because the already existing health service provider, which will only ask for an extension of the authorisation of the import activity, will only cover the costs incurred in submitting the application at the price of an additional extension, which will amount to only about one third, about a little more than CZK 20 000. The introduction of a single European code will not bring additional costs because identification codes are already used and tissue establishments have coding devices. All you have to do is edit the code entry. It is also noted in the explanatory memorandum that no additional costs will arise from the state budget. At the end of my intelligence report, I still note that the proposal passed through the approval of the government without contradictions, was approved on 18 April this year. The effectiveness of the bill submitted is proposed 29. The 4th of next year. I recommend the release of the law for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-002-061.u7	Thank you, too. I am opening a general debate in which I am registering two applications, Mr Zavadil's factual remark - he is not present, in which case I am canceling his application and the duly signed-in Mr Hovorka will appear. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-002-061.u8	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Dear Government, dear colleagues, I generally see this law as necessary. Nevertheless, I dare to suspend one provision of this law. Because one of the objectives is the introduction of a single European code that will facilitate the traceability of human tissues and cells from donor to recipient and vice versa, but Section 20b of Title IV of the Encoding of tissues and cells states that a single European code according to paragraph 2. 1 shall not apply where (a) the donation of reproductive cells between a man and a woman who form a barren couple and undergo the treatment of infertility together; (b) tissues and cells if they remain within one tissue establishment and in one medical establishment; (c) tissues and cells imported from a third country, provided that they remain within one tissue establishment and a health establishment from import to use in humans. I'll take one example, consider it a hypothesis. The owner of the healthcare facility from the third, e.g. non-democratic countries will ensure the accreditation of tissue establishments in their medical facility and may provide imported organs for transplantation e.g. And the prisoners who were killed. It will not be possible to look into this because they have an exception from the records and the origin of the authorities need not be documented. The general conditions for imports of the given Section 11, when a tissue establishment enters into a written contract with a supplier from a third country, do not address a specific case. They are focused only on the quality of imports and the standard of collection. Personally, the biggest problem I see is that for many years the material of human origin has been altered somewhat chaoticly. Transplants have one law, tissues and cells are regulated in another law and the case for itself is blood and blood derivatives as well as gametes and embryos. The whole area and the whole process, this is the withdrawal from the donor, processing and export or import, use and remuneration, would require a uniform and clear legislative solution, but it would be a lot of work and it would need to have a quality legal apparatus. As regards the exemption for imports from third countries, there is no justification in the explanatory memorandum, which is why I am asking. It seems logical to me that the European code and the administration associated with it do not deal with it, for example. a barren couple or as regards transmission or collection within one installation. However, the third exemption for imports from third countries should be further justified and, of course, it is not. Of course, Member States can apply this exception, but this should be duly justified in that national regulation. The fact that the directive gives the states this right to introduce an exception does not mean that they have to introduce it. Therefore, if the Ministry of Health introduces it, it should state a specific justification. And I want to ask the Minister to be absolutely clear on this issue as to why this exception is being introduced. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-09-09-ps2013-049-04-002-061.u9	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I wonder if anyone else is joining the debate. I don't see anyone. If that is the case, I am ending the general debate. I ask whether the appellant or rapporteur wants to take the final words. It's not like that. Okay. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Health as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I see no proposal, in which case we will proceed to the vote. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that the proposal submitted be ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 135, 143 Members and Members registered, for proposal 98, against no one. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee and I ask whether you have a proposal to discuss other committees. I don't see any proposal, in which case I'm done discussing this point. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
