ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-007-011.u1	11. Government bill amending Act No. 84/1990 Coll., on the right of assembly, as amended /German press 510/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, Milan Chovanec, the Interior Minister, will present the bill. Minister, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-007-011.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, let me, on behalf of the Government, present to you the Government's proposal for an amendment to the law on the right of assembly and remind you once again of the main changes that this proposal brings. I would like to reiterate that the aim of the proposal is, above all, to respond to the practical problems arising from the application of the existing law on the right of assembly. Thus, the amendment's proposal, first of all, specifies the powers of public authorities, especially municipalities and police, updates the obsolete legal terminology and limits the institutions out of use, i.e. those consumed and survived. It responds to the decision-making practice of the Supreme Administrative Court, as the current wording of the law no longer complies with the case law of this court, specifies the administrative punishment in this area. From my point of view, the main change is the strengthening of the authority of the municipal authorities before the meeting. Following the model of Germany, it is proposed that the Authority may lay down restrictive conditions for the holding of meetings. Furthermore, the proposal allows for more flexible resolution of collisions between multiple meetings without the need to ban them. This means, therefore, in parallel, that these meetings can be held at the same time on the basis of restrictive conditions laid down by the municipal authority. Last but not least, the proposal includes a change in the regulation of camouflage during the assembly. In the meantime, an amendment to the Constitutional Legal Committee was prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior after a detailed discussion, which releases the change in the regulation of camouflage. The group of persons who can convene meetings is limited to natural persons over 18 years of age and Czech legal persons. The obligation of the caller to cooperate with the municipality and the Police of the Czech Republic is strengthened. Next, there is the possibility to end the gathering for disturbing the peace of the night. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-007-011.u3	I thank the Minister of the Interior and note that we ordered the proposal at first reading to be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 510/1 and 510/2. I therefore ask the rapporteur of Mr Vlastimil Vozka's constitutional committee to inform us about the committee's deliberations and to justify any amendments. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-007-011.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, in accordance with the normal practice of law-making, the House of Constitutional Law Committee was forwarded to the House Press 510, which was therefore discussed in the Constitutional Legal Committee as follows. The date of 11. 2. 2016 Constitutional Committee interrupted the discussion, you have a report on this in the material 510/1. This is to give the members of the Constitutional Committee time to think about it and to put forward possible amendments. In the meantime, two workshops took place, attended by members of the Security Committee with the participation of both representatives of the Ministry of Interior and representatives of the Police Presidium. I would like to thank the Minister very much for the fact that these experts were sent by the Ministry and were very well prepared for the meeting. The Constitutional Committee subsequently discussed the result of this teamwork on 17 March 2016 and you have the result in the Houses of the Press 510/2, which the Minister has already presented to you in the introductory words. Therefore, I can only say that on 17 March, the Constitutional Committee recommends that the Chamber of Deputies approve the bill and recommends that it be adopted in the wording of the amendments and supplements, which I will briefly introduce to you. In the first part of Article 1, the Constitutional Committee proposes to repeal point 8, renumber the following points. It is mentioned in this amendment that the assembly can be convened by a citizen over 18 years of age or by a legal person based in the Czech Republic or by a group of such persons, hereinafter as a caller. Secondly, in Part 1 of the first Article, the following point 9 is inserted after point 8: Article 4 (1) (a) (b) footnote 2 is inserted after the word "Companies": a reference, therefore, to the Act No. 3/2002 Coll., on Churches and Religious Communities. So the following points are multiplied. The reason I will not look into it in detail is that it has sometimes happened to us that people who have been called Church have been hiding as a church person, and then it has been very problematic to dissolve such gatherings. As regards another point in the resolution of the Constitutional Committee, the Constitutional Committee in Article 1 (10) therefore proposes to repeal it. These are the provisions where the assembly is notified and this notification under Section 4 becomes redundant following this reference. In the first part of Article 1, the following point 15 is inserted after point 14 below: 4 the word "written" shall be inserted after the word "added." We have proposed the matter of submitting the written consent of the owner of the land on whose land the assembly is to be carried out, and I believe, and the Constitutional Committee has given this consent that it is fully in the right. As regards point 5 of Article 1, the words "and the Police of the Czech Republic' shall be inserted after point 18 above. Here at the level of the Office's Guidelines, an obligation or authorisation is also imposed to give authority to the Police of the Czech Republic in this way. Unless, of course, the Office's staff and the caller are in place. [[18.20 hours]] The next part of Article 1 is deleted from point 21. At this point, it is a very discussed point where it is deleted that the participants in the meetings must not have their faces covered in a way that makes it difficult or impossible to identify them. We are of the opinion that cloaking is illegal at the assembly. Point seven. In the section of Article one, the present point 22 in Section 8 (2) is replaced by the following: 4 the words "including an instruction to adjust the place of meeting" shall be inserted after the words "callers." As regards this section, this is accompanied by an explicit reference to the possibility of adjusting the meeting venue, where the authority of the representative of the Office, the police, the adjustment or resolution of the situations at issue, as well as an instruction to change the venue of the meeting. The above is important not only in the conflict of more meetings, but in the regulation of marches and their collision with other marches or problems in place itself. It will happen to us that someone or the owner of the nets will dig us out in the night or afternoon of the previous day and cannot be executed for obvious reasons. In the section of Article one, in the present paragraph 22, paragraph 8 is replaced by the following: 6 the word "policeman" shall be replaced by the word "Officer of the Police of the Czech Republic." I don't think there's a need to give a big reason. The next amendment proposed is: in Article one, point 23 is deleted and the others are numbered. There is therefore an explicit authorisation to impose the conditions for holding a meeting, respectively. the end of the assembly so as not to disturb the peace of the night, as the Minister has already said. The tenth point is: In the present point 28 § 11 para. "If the Tribunal so requests, the Office shall send it a written copy of the decision to it." shall be replaced by the sentence "The Office shall send the caller a written copy of the decision without undue delay.". I think it is clear from this presentation that the substance of the matter is clear. Point 11. In the section of the article one in the present point 28 is in § 12 para. 6 "if necessary for the purpose of ensuring public order' shall be replaced by "if the representative of the Office or if the representative of the Office is absent'. Basically, there's a police officer's authority to dismantle a meeting under more strictly defined conditions than a representative of the office. It should also be understood that a police officer must, on the basis of this authorisation, justify his or her procedure to the Office. Twelve point. In the section of Article one, the present point 28 in Paragraph 14 (1) is replaced by the following: "or disobey the call of a representative of the Office or of a police officer to remove the cover of the face' shall be deleted. We have already discussed this issue. This means, if an absolute ban on camouflage is maintained in the law, and if it is approved, it will then fall out in § 7 para. 4 explicit mention of the obligation to remove the cover of the face. In essence, the Constitutional Committee is still proposing a legislative technical amendment, where in the present point 32 the number 32 is replaced by the number 3. The reason for this is that we have inserted footnote 2 relating to § 4 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) which therefore means that the numbering of notes must be postponed. This is all to justify the position of the Constitutional Committee, which has been agreed by a majority of its members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-007-011.u5	I thank the rapporteur for his extensive comments on the constitutional committee. I am opening a general debate. There are three applications so far. First is Mr Martin Lank, and then Mr Plíšek and Mr Grospič will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-007-011.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present the two amendments that we are proposing for the Dawn Parliamentary Club. These proposals are based on the experience we have from the demonstrations that we hold with the Block against Islam. The last impulse was the media output after the demonstration against Islamization, which we organized on 6 February at Hradčany Square in Prague. I am referring to the fact that this demonstration took place without any struggles or major problems. Yet some media have apparently deliberately reported it as a demonstration full of security incidents. The media also deliberately distorted the number of participants. The demonstration on Hradčany Square had at least 10,000 participants, yet we could read or hear that it was a protest of a few hundred people. The aim of our first amendment is to put an end to speculation once and for all about how demonstrations are taking place and how many people have come. After such demonstrations, we propose that the police always prepare a report on a meeting that clearly describes possible incidents and also gives an indication of the number of participants. Police are equipped with technology and software that are able to determine the number of participants relatively accurately. Thanks to this proposal, the public would always have an unbiased official report on how the demonstration took place and how many people were there. Our second amendment addresses the issue of the unprofessional approach of some journalists. Especially in the large demonstrations that we hold with the Bloc against Islam, it is necessary to manage the organization perfectly, and this is often very difficult. This requires, among other things, to address matters such as defining a safe space for journalists and their transmission cars. Unfortunately, we have had a very bad experience in Hradčany Square with Czech Radio journalists, for example. Those arrived at the place only when the square was already filled by the participants of the demonstration and did not use the service offered by the organizers. So they parked their transfer car in a place where the organizers could not have an overview of the events and noise of the technical equipment disrupted the participants in the demonstration at that location. In addition, the car was quite unfortunately built into a single access route to the site of the demonstration, and thus a single way to leave the Hradčany Square area. One of the editors even complained about the attack on the part of the participants in the demonstration and the unwillingness of the police to deal with the matter. The entire case was subsequently investigated by the General Inspectorate of the Security Corps, and I would like to say that the report of the Director of the Inspection clearly states that the demonstration was peaceful, there has been no attack, there has been no disturbance or threat of transmission, none of the participants committed an infringement and that the police had no doubts about anything. In order to avoid similar inconveniences next time, we propose to put into law an obligation for media to accredit in sufficient advance with the caller in order to ensure adequate protection and service. If the relevant medium is not accredited and does not cooperate with the organisers, it should at least provide itself with a protective service, which is also one of the recommendations resulting from the inspection report. Ladies and gentlemen, these are briefly summarised by the amendments, which I will then sign up for in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-007-011.u7	I thank Mr Martin Lanka. Now, Mr Martin Plíšek. A colleague, Grospič, will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-007-011.u8	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I would like to introduce you to the amendment, which I will then sign up for in a detailed debate. The proposed proposal aims to protect the dignified comments of events that we recall on certain days of public holidays. The memory of these important events should not be used for dubious objectives, as was the case in the past, for example, last November 17th at Albertov in Prague. Here I would just like to remind you that, as it happens today, the President also thanked police officers for the intervention on November 17 on Albertov. I don't know exactly what he thanked for, because we know that students' representatives who were prepared and individually to lay flowers there on 17 November were not allowed into the premises where demonstrations were held for completely different purposes than to commemorate the public holiday on 17 November. [[18.30 hours]] It is therefore proposed that the celebration of public holidays, whose reminder is firmly linked to a specific place, be reserved on a specific day for a dignified commemoration of historical events in a particular place. This restriction will only apply to closely defined locations and public holidays which are inseparably linked to a particular location. This will therefore not be a major intervention in the freedom of assembly. If the purpose of the notified assembly were contrary to the celebration and reminder of the national holiday in question, then it would be governed by the law on the right of assembly, so it would be possible to prohibit such a meeting or, in the extreme case, dissolve it in its course. In this spirit, the following list of public holidays and associated localities is proposed, where meetings can be held only for the purpose of celebrating and commenting on the national holiday. In particular, it is the Day of Slavonic Convoys Cyril a Metoděj on 5 July in Velehrad, the Day of Burning mistr Jan Hus on 6 July in the territory of Husinec, the Day of Czech Statehood on 28 September in the territory of Stará Boleslav and finally the Day of Fighting for Freedom and Democracy on 17 November in the streets of the National Class and Albertov in Prague. In a detailed debate, I will then sign up for a specific amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-007-011.u9	I thank Mr Plíšek and now Mr Stanislav Grospič. [[A Member of Kalousek is reporting for the floor.]] Excuse me, colleague Kalousek with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-007-011.u10	Thank you. I would like to respond to the previous speaker in front of Mr Plíšek, who proposed to adjust the responsibilities of journalists in similar events. Basically, it just wants to complement the practice that we have witnessed with legislation. I think that we should move quickly in this and, given the information that is still appearing, we should also catch up on the practice legislatively. That is, it would be appropriate to propose to this law that the assembly is allowed only where the President of the Republic does not mind. And if the President of the Republic has already expressed disapproval over the permitted assembly, the Police of the Czech Republic is entitled to prevent the permitted assembly on the basis of engineering technical measures. I think if we approved something like this, we would bring the outrages that are happening here into line. I'm not suggesting it, but those who defend what happened should do it. At least then it would be governed by the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-007-011.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We'll continue to discuss points. Mr Grospič is duly enrolled in the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-007-011.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues, I think I will not be long. I will not submit an amendment. But the discussion that's going on here leads me to a few of these little notes. Firstly, I would like to point out that Law No. 84/1990, which we are changing here because it is not a brand new law on the right of assembly, it has worked here for a relatively long time, for almost 25 years. He may have caused interpretation problems at certain moments, but he was more or less functioning without problems. Yes, it is true that in some cases the judicial system, including the Constitutional Court, has also intervened, but this has not caused serious problems in terms of its operation. The problems - and I cannot defend myself - came particularly last year in connection with 17 November and the issue that took place mostly in the capital city of Prague. Thus, it can be assumed with a great degree that perhaps, in addition to some of the major cities or some of the places where these meetings take place, mostly from this point of view of the church, and these are excluded from this proposal, there should not be any significant problems and needs that are treated, for my taste too kausuistically, in this standard. I fully understand the proposal made here by Mr Plíšek, through Mr President. However, I would be extremely careful to put something so pucuistic into this law, because I think we will not be able to resist the situation that, in three months, six months, a year after some events, we will suffer - or those sitting here in the Chamber of Deputies will suffer from an urgent need to expand the list of places where, in essence, meetings outside the purposes for which these places are intended cannot be held. Finally, I am pleased that the working group, which has formed from political parties under the leadership of my colleague Vozka, has reached a compromise that has become the basis of the constitutionally legal committee. For me, this means that the right to collect in practice will basically be preserved in the form we know from 1990. I think that the other adjustments that are being made here are, of course, legitimate, they are justified, but, in their nature, they would lead to a significant restriction on the rights of assembly. From this point of view, if there were to be a restriction on the rights of assembly, I say frankly, it would be a big problem that would be created, with the possibility of supporting this law also by the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-007-011.u13	I also thank you and ask if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. As I see no one, I am ending the general debate and I am asking for the final words of the rapporteur and the appellant. It's not like that. In that case, I am initiating a detailed debate in which I register two applications. The first is Mr Lank and the second Mr Plíšek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-007-011.u14	Thank you for the floor. Have a good afternoon again. As I have announced, I would like to sign up for this amendment, which is in the system under the number of House document 4122. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-007-011.u15	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Plíšek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-007-011.u16	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, as I have announced in the general debate, I hereby subscribe to the amendment which is included in the system under House document 4114. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-04-12-ps2013-044-01-007-011.u17	Thank you, too. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. It's not like that. In that case, I conclude the detailed debate and ask the appellant or rapporteur for the final word. It's not like that. Since no other proposals have been made, I am ending the second reading of this proposal. Thank you. I'm opening another point, and that's it.
