ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-27-ps2013-050-07-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 9 o'clock and the next day of the Chamber of Deputies meeting begins. I'd like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, let me know who's applying for a replacement card. I agree that the following Members asked to apologize for their absence at today's meeting: Adam Vojtěch - health reasons, Adamová Markéta within 11 hours - personal reasons, Aulická Jírovcová Hana - personal reasons, Běhounek Jiří - foreign travel, Benešová Marie - medical reasons, Bezecný Zdeněk - working reasons, Brázdil Milan - personal reasons, Černý Alexander - personal reasons, Dolejš Jiří - personal reasons, Farskýý Jan - from 10 hours abroad trip, Fiala Petr - foreign travel, Fiedler Karel - medical reasons, Gabrhel Vlastimil - working grounds, Grospič Stanislav - working grounds, Havlová Olga from 12 to 19 hours - family reasons, Heger Leoš until 9.30 - working reasons, Holík Pavel - working grounds, Jakubčík Igor - health reasons, Kádner David - working grounds, Kořenek Petr - working grounds, Koskuba Jiří - health reasons, Petr Romancek - health reasons, Kubíček - medical Roman - medical reasons, Láško - working hours Lášlavová, from 10 hours Lobko - working reasons, Jaroslav Lorencová Jana - without any reason, Marková Soňa - personal reasons, Nykl Igor - health reasons, Nytrová Pavlína - personal reasons, Procházka Roman within 11 hours - working reasons, Rykala Adam - personal reasons, Seďa Antonín - foreign travel, Skalický Jiří within 13 hours - working reasons, Snopek Václav - foreign travel, Válková Helena by 10.30 - working reasons, Votava Václav from 14.30 - working reasons, Vozula Rostislav from 14.30 to 18 hours - working reasons, Vyzula Rostislav by 11.15 - working reasons, Wernerová Markéta - health reasons, Zemánek Jiří - working reasons, Ženíšek Marek - working reasons. The following members of the government apologize for today's meeting: Sobotka Bohuslav - working reasons, Babiš Andrej - personal reasons, Bělobrádek Pavel - working reasons, Herman Daniel within 11 hours - personal reasons, Marksová Michaela from the morning meeting - working reasons, Němeček Svatopluk - working reasons, Stropnickýý Martin - foreign travel, Ťok Dan from 17 o'clock - working reasons, Zaorálek Lubomír - working reasons. He also apologizes to Minister Valachová from today, within 13 hours for reasons of work, and also to Mr Opálka, who apologizes from 9 to 13 today for reasons of work. Today's meeting will begin at paragraph 261, which are the answers of the members of the government to written interpelations. Please note that applications for oral interpelations may be submitted no later than 11 o'clock and their draw will take place at 11.30 p.m. I'd like to inform you that he will be at the premises on Friday, October 28th. The Chamber of Deputies will hold an open day on the occasion of the Creation Day of the independent Czechoslovak State. I strongly urge you to clean all the materials from your desks or they will be shredded. I would also like to remind you that at 11 o'clock we will welcome Mr Jiří Brady to the Chamber of Deputies' meeting. We will now proceed to the interpellations.
