ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u1	257. Oral inhalation But before we get to the Prime Minister's first interview, I'll read the apologies. Mr Jan Sedláček apologizes today from 13:00 for reasons of work, Mr Jan Farský apologises today from 14:30 and tomorrow during the whole day for health reasons, Mr Martin Komárek apologizes today from 14:30 for health reasons, Mr Marek Černoch apologises today from 9 to 13 for reasons of work, Minister Marian Jurečka apologises from 14:30 for reasons of work and Mr Josef Hájek apologises today between 14:30 and 18:00 for reasons of work. Those were note cards. We're moving on to the interpellings. The first interview was drawn by Mrs Marta Semelová, who will interpel Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka in the matter of flats in Písnice. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u2	Dear Prime Minister, again and again, for several times, this is my party's interpelation of the Písnice, just as I intervened with Minister Babiš and the Representation of the capital city of Prague. If I sum up your answer, the public competition organized by ČEZ is transparent, Prague should apply to the competition, thirdly it is necessary to proceed with care of the proper economy and fourthly, the competition contains a social aspect, so there is nothing to worry about. But the reality is completely different. As far as transparency is concerned, it is not only the current tenants, but a significant private candidate who has already resigned from the competition, with the fact that - I quote from the statement: Trade does not offer fair terms for business, and in such a situation it will certainly not be able to compete for the purchase of the portfolio. The entrance of the capital city of Prague. It's true that it got to the council on Thursday, I myself suggested that Prague buy these apartments. Unfortunately it did not pass, however it does not change the situation that Prague would actually choose hot chestnuts from the fire for the state, because CEZ is a semi-state company where the state has a majority. At this point, the state is throwing it over to the city, the city is throwing it over to the city part, which was offered by the city a loan without the upper limit, but with such a term that it is difficult to participate. As for the care of a proper economy, it is not only linked to maximizing profits, but also with a good reputation of the company and unfortunately this whole case is increasingly reminiscent of privatization of OKD flats. I'll come back to the social point of view. I am asking you to change your attitude so far and prevent the repetition of the problem that arose during the privatisation of OKD apartments in the Moravian-Silesian region.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u3	Thank you, Madame Lady, for respecting the time limit. Please, Prime Minister, for your answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u4	Thank you. Dear Members, let me remind you that the Ministry of Finance is entrusted with the exercise of shareholder rights in ČEZ. Although the state is the majority shareholder of the shares, the government cannot intervene in the planned sale of the ČEZ energy group's flats in Prague's Písnice. CEZ is a business capital company, its activities are governed by Act No. 90/2012 Coll., on Commercial Corporations, and pursuant to § 435 para. No one is entitled to give instructions to the board concerning the company's business management. The mentioned law also provides for compliance with the principle of proper economic care, i.e. that the priority in the management of its assets is to maximize possible profits. It should be noted, however, that CEZ did not consult the government on its intention to sell the housing fund. On this issue, on the initiative of citizens and also on the basis of the interpelling of Members in the Chamber of Deputies, I have several times turned to the Minister of Finance, who, as I have already mentioned, exercises shareholder rights for the state in ČEZ. On 13 September 2016, I asked the Minister of Finance to justify the decision of ČEZ on the sale of flats and to provide information on how the tender dates were set, including checking whether their setting was appropriate. The Minister of Finance sent me his observations and also sent me CEZ's position on the matter. According to this opinion, which I have received from the Ministry of Finance and which the Member quoted after all, the Ministry of Finance concluded that, after assessing all the information I received for the tender, I believe that the procedure of CEZ is chosen not in a transparent manner and enables the participation of the broadest possible audience. This is therefore a quote from the Minister of Finance's position that I have received on this matter. I also contacted the Minister of Finance on the basis of a letter from Mr Adámek, who informed about possible irregularities in the negotiation of rental contracts in the housing fund in 1998. The Minister of Finance also responded to this letter, which sent me the opinion of ČEZ, which therefore claims in his opinion that there were no irregularities. I really want to draw attention to the fact that, as Prime Minister, I cannot interfere with the functioning of this joint stock company, the shareholder rights are exercised by the Ministry of Finance, and I have already referred twice in this context to the Minister of Finance to ask him to examine the facts with which I have been contacted either by citizens or by Members in this Chamber of Deputies. My view on this is that it would be good to create conditions for either the capital city of Prague or the relevant part of the city to be able to buy these flats. So, in my opinion, it would be the optimal solution if the capital city of Prague or the city part took part in this competition, and it was therefore possible for these flats to be bought out within the public sector. But, of course, even if the apartments were bought by the capital city of Prague or the city part, naturally they will also have to treat the apartments as a trust, which means they will have to take into account the economic treatment of this housing fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister. Please, Madame, your supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u6	That's all beautiful, Prime Minister, but tomorrow is the deadline and the deadline for entering the competition will expire. First of all. The rumors you've been repeating since the first interpellation I've given you won't help these people. The fact that you are quoting the position of ČEZ here certainly does not mean that, we all know the position. I would also like to say that the social aspect that you were wielding has also been violated, because the legal analysis of the tender has shown that the new owner can quite easily redeem himself from the responsibility of existing tenants. These conditions are clearly discriminated against by ČEZ and are contrary to the principles of the ČEZ Code of Ethics. So even these arguments you're using are completely worthless. Moreover, there was a doubt expressed by the lawyer whether this privatization of flats by ČEZ was in accordance with the laws of the day. These people have one last chance. I repeat, it's tomorrow. I am asking you, as Prime Minister of this government, to stand up for those citizens and to enter into negotiations, to ask for an extension of the deadline or cancellation of the competition. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u7	Thank you, Madame. The Prime Minister is not interested in an additional answer. Mr Stanislav Grospič, who will interpelate Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka about the completion of the competition ČEZ, apartments Praha Písnice, will give the second interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Prime Minister, allow me to follow up on my previous speaker on the same question on which I was asked by the tenants, by the residents of those flats in Písnice, to open this matter on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to point out here that CEZ's trading company has broken its promise to the residents of the Písnice housing estate that it will sell them out. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that the residents of the Písnice housing estate associated with the Moje Písnice initiative and the Prague-Libuš district were hereby denied the possibility to participate in the competition for the sale of the housing fund. Furthermore, the conditions of the tender were clearly discriminated against by ČEZ, as has already been said here, while at the same time they do not guarantee the residents of the Písnice housing estate declared social criteria. So I would like to ask you - the government is a collective body - whether the government at the level of its whole dealt with this issue or whether it focused only on your personal letter to the Minister of Finance. And how the government applies the State's share of CEZ, when it could quite clearly intervene in this case and in the form of aid either hl. the city of Prague, or the city part, or by stopping this competition through its majority in the general meeting of the business company CEZ to prevent this sale of flats.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u9	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Prime Minister, your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u10	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has not dealt with this matter, because the government as a whole cannot interfere with the functioning of ČEZ's trading company. I would like to remind you that ČEZ is, unfortunately, only 70 percent owned by the Czech Republic. Shareholders' rights are exercised by the Ministry of Finance. I did not quote any opinions here, but I quoted from the opinion received from the Finance Minister, whom I asked him to examine the matter. No one else can examine the matter from the point of view of the state, because it is the Ministry of Finance that exercises shareholder rights for the Czech Republic in ČEZ. Since the state does not own a full hundred percent, that is, there are other shareholders of ČEZ, so it is necessary to respect the law and to pay attention to the interests of other shareholders of ČEZ. In my opinion, the best solution would be to create the conditions for either hl. City of Prague, or part of the city could submit an offer and could purchase these apartments. So I'd expect an hl. City of Prague, the city section will act in this sense that in this sense they will negotiate with the management of ČEZ and will try to achieve such conditions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u11	Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u12	I would just like to point out that the city section, according to my information, has been discussing this. The mayor is prepared to report information on this town area. And I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, whether you see the government as a set of central government bodies of individual ministries or a collective body, as the Constitution of the Czech Republic predicts. And whether the government should not apply the State's representation, in this case the 70% share of ownership, as a collective body, to address this issue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u13	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u14	Thank you. First of all, honourable Members, I would like to remind you that the government can act only on the basis of law and within the limits of the law. That means we have to act in a way that respects the competences we have. The government naturally, if it were to act for example. about the privatisation of ČEZ or the sale of shares of ČEZ, so it would undoubtedly belong to the government of the Czech Republic if someone had come up with such a proposal. No doubt it would have to be a government to decide this matter. However, the government itself cannot replace the decisions of the statutory bodies of a public limited company, which are not yet 100% owned by the state. We need to conduct the necessary negotiations here. The negotiations must be conducted in such a way that there is room for the urban part or hl. City of Prague could submit an offer and could buy apartments. Here, of course, from the government's point of view, I would consider it the best solution if such a space were created here. And it is important to use the time available for such negotiations to be conducted. However, the government cannot, by its resolution, interfere with the management of internal issues in ČEZ or, in principle, challenge it, because we would really exceed the possibilities given by the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u15	Thank you. The third interview will be given by Mr Marek Černoch. He will intersect the Prime Minister on the matter of the detainees in Turkey. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u16	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Prime Minister, a couple of Čech were recently detained in Turkey who were accused of providing weapons to Kurd and also of terrorism. They're facing 20 years in prison for that. According to other information, however, their journey was humanitarian, and it is also clear from the statement of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that the Čech did not travel to Syria due to terrorism. I would like to ask you how the Czech Republic will proceed to get Czech citizens back home. And the second question is, do you have information about the treatment of detained Čech in Turkey? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u17	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u18	Thank you. Madam, honourable Members, first of all, I would like to make it clear that we are taking care of our citizens. That we will take care of our citizens in all cases. Even in those cases where these citizens obviously behaved unreasonablely if they traveled to some areas where war is raging. Logically. But we take care of our citizens, and it doesn't matter that these people behaved unreasonablely. We are simply looking for all the possibilities for citizens of the Czech Republic anywhere in the world, if they get into trouble and if we find out about it, we will, of course, try to help them. I am just pointing out that, of course, it costs some effort and it costs certain taxpayers' money in terms of the functioning of the state apparatus, which then needs to solve these problems. About the question he was asking about. Czech citizens, Markéta Všelichová and Miroslav Farkas, were detained on 13 November 2016 in the southeast of Turkey, at the Habur border crossing in the province of Sirnak, when attempting to cross the border into Iraq. According to the Turkish party, the reason for the detention was the fact that materials, videos and other publications related to the organization of the Syrian Kurds of the People's Defence Unit were found in Czech citizens. In the context of the situation in the area, there is strict control of foreigners, potential foreign fighters who want to go to Syria or Iraq. So it is logical that Turkey controls its borders because it has to do with the war zone. Any country would probably do that. Unfortunately, the People's Defence Forces in Turkey are considered a terrorist organization that is closely linked to the PKK, the Kurdish Workers' Party. According to information available to the Czech Embassy in Ankara, the mentioned Czech citizens are suspected of membership of a terrorist organisation according to Turkish data and laws, if I am based on the findings and statements of our Ministry of Foreign Affairs. According to available information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the purpose of this couple's trip to Syria was not to participate in any terrorist activity. In addition, the State Department stated that it does not have information that the conduct of the detained couple could be criminal as, say, a terrorist attack under Czech law. So we do not have such information in relation to the violation of Czech law. Regarding what else has been said by the State Department, as I have already said, the detainees have found materials of an organization that is considered terrorist in Turkey. From the moment the Czech Government learned about the matter, it has been intensively involved in this situation. The matter is solved by the Czech Embassy in Ankara, which provides consular assistance to the detainees. Attorney of the detainees has filed a request for release to the court of the higher instance, both Mrs Všelichová and Mr Farkas. Both arrests declare that they traveled to the area with the intention of setting up a mobile hospital here. The higher court is now reviewing the case. The Court of First Instance is collecting further information on Mrs Všelichová's activities and will probably need at least four weeks to decide on the case. [[14.50 hours]] At present, the appointment of an ex-offo lawyer has ended, and the detentions, along with their families, must decide on the selection of a new legal representative. The Embassy of the Czech Republic helps families of detainees in preparing their visit to the Turkish prison, has facilitated the transfer of money from Mrs. Všelichová's family to the prison and has provided the families with contact with an English-speaking lawyer who is willing to take the case. The Embassy is also on this subject on a daily basis - I stress everyday - in contact with the Turkish authorities. At the State Department, two consultations were held with the Ambassador of the Republic of Turkey. In both cases, the Turkish Ambassador was asked to ensure action against the accused in accordance with the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations and we also stressed the need to find an acceptable solution that would not harm relations between the Czech Republic and Turkey. The detention of those appointed is also one of the priority topics that will be discussed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs during his visit to the Republic of Turkey. A visit by Foreign Minister Zaorálek is scheduled for 13 December this year, which means it will be one of the things that will be discussed in Turkey.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u19	Thank you. The Member has an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u20	Although Kurdish militias are taken as a terrorist organization in Turkey, they are not in Europe. That's why I'd like to ask you one more thing. In case there is a conviction whether the Czech Republic will request the extradition of these detainees so that they can at least execute the penalty in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u21	Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u22	Thank you. Maybe I'll get some refills. Given that this was not really the first activity, such a similar activity of the detainees, I would just like to remind you that Mrs Markéta Všelichová has already been detained on 8 August 2016 in Iraq, specifically in Kurdistan, in an alleged attempt to cross the border illegal into Syria. She was transferred to Erbíle, questioned, and was released after proof of journalistic identity. She was again detained on 27 October this year, this time in Jordan, when she tried to accompany Miroslav Farkas illegally cross the border again to Syria. That's the data we have at our disposal. The Embassy of the Czech Republic in Amman, Jordan, was in contact with Czech citizens and on 10 November 2016 Mrs Všelichová and Mr Farkas were expelled from Jordan to Turkey. This means that these people have been moving in the region for a long time and are trying to cross the border into Syria from different directions. So it was not their first attempt to cross the border into Syria. As far as the development of this case is concerned, I'm sorry, but I really don't want to anticipate anything negative that might happen in this thing right now. I'm based on the fact that according to our laws and according to the prisoners, they didn't commit any terrorist acts. Therefore, there is no reason why they should be detained or why they should be tried. We are therefore trying to help them as much as possible in terms of defence, legal assistance, contact with their family members, and we will try to achieve a satisfactory solution so that these citizens can return to the Czech Republic. In the case of any scenario, we will naturally proceed to improve their living conditions to the maximum. But I really don't want to anticipate what else can happen in the decision-making process of Turkish justice now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u23	Thank you. Mrs Alena Nohavová, in her fourth interview, will intersect Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on the involvement of members of the government in the interventions. Please, Madame, intersect about the intersects.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u24	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, Members of Parliament, both from the opposition and from the coalition parties, may raise questions to the members of the government and to you by means of an interview. There is great interest in them by Members. There's about 50 of them, and you're in your 30s. At the same time, we want to fulfil our constitutional law. But how can we fulfill it when ministers are miserable? We just don't have anyone to ask. What are you going to do about it, Prime Minister? I remember from the last parliamentary term, when you, as an opposition MP, criticized the government of that time, when you said that you, as Prime Minister, would be able to secure the participation of ministers in the interventions. You're Prime Minister today, and the situation is the same. Waiting for a written reply to the oral questioning of the month is quite a long time. We might as well send those ministers a written interview. But even in the event of a dissenting written interpelation, we have been waiting for a few months for the minister or you, Prime Minister, to answer the question. For example, six months were not answered by written interpellation of a colleague Grebeníček or a colleague Filip. For six months, a colleague of Ondráček was waiting for Secretary Marksová. Oral interpelation serves to deal with the problem in an operational way, whether in the present laws or in the region. We Members are responsible to our constituents, you as a government are responsible to the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u25	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u26	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I, of course, do not want to apologise to those members of the government who have nothing more important, but I would like to mention the fact that it does not always work out so that a member of the government could be present here at the intercessions. I see it in my own experience that I have. I am among those members of the government who are mostly present here at oral interviews, but there will be situations where the European Council, when ministerial councils are acting, that is, ministers are not represented there and they have to take part in these events, because otherwise the voice of the Czech Republic would not be there. I'm trying to make the government's participation in the intercessions better. I have also drawn up a table concerning the participation of the members of the Government in the interventions between 6 February 2014 and 21 April 2016. The table shows that there really is a difference in participation in the interpellations. In terms of best participation, the first ministers to participate, which is above 68 percent, it is Minister Herman, Brabec, Ťok, Zaorálek. This means that there is no flat-rate talk of ministers not being here, because these four ministers were here at 68 percent when the oral question was put on them. Unfortunately, there are also members of the government who have a significantly worse turnout, and if we are talking about those members of the government who were under 50%, it is Minister Mládek, Minister Šlechtová, Minister Chovanec, Minister Němeček, former Minister of Health, and Minister of Finance. So these members of the government had a participation of less than 50 percent. I will certainly, when the House meeting is over at the end of this year, I would have it processed by the Government, which will also be received by Members of the Chamber of Deputies, about participation from 21 April this year. We will see if the participation of the members of the government has improved, and in any case, I will be talking to the members of the government now at the next meeting of the government to remind them, especially those who have attendance below 50 per cent, to improve their attendance at oral questioning.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u27	Thank you. Please, Madame, your supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u28	Prime Minister, I understand, of course, when ministers or you have a foreign trip. But every member of the government knows that on Thursday, two o'clock in the morning and Thursday, two o'clock in the afternoon, there are interpelations. It's only two hours in the morning and afternoon. And so I think they could count on it to plan their program. It's not every Thursday, it's, of course, when the House is meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u29	Thank you, Madame. Mr Pavel Ploc will interpel the Prime Minister on the extended coal mine Turów. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister, I am addressing you with a problem that troubles the people of the Liberec Region. It is an extension of the brown coal mine Turów, located near the Polish Bogatyna at the Czech-Polish border. The planned expansion and significant deepening of the mine will draw water from the wide area. This intervention threatens not only to damage the environment, but, in particular, the loss of groundwater in this large locality. Some sources of drinking water and wells dry up due to a decrease in groundwater levels. Therefore, in the future it will be necessary to provide alternative sources of drinking water for our fellow citizens living in this area, to complete the water network and so on. My question is who will bear the costs of the damage suffered in the Czech Republic by extending the brown coal mine Turów and what steps our government will take in this matter. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u31	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u32	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, there seems to be more conflict points in this region. I'm glad at least one of them has been solved. That was the question of shielding the greenhouses at Bogatyn, where, as I was informed, the operator or owner of these giant greenhouses, which are therefore heated from the power plant, which stands on the bottom of Turów, overshadowed a large part of the area. This means that light pollution has decreased significantly. This, too, was one of the topics that we discussed with Poland at a high level in order to improve the situation. I fear that the expansion of the coal mine Turów and the possible negative effects on the Czech Republic will be a significantly more complex problem than the issue of light pollution. I have agreed with the Minister of the Environment that an inter-ministerial group will be assembled at government level. The Department of the Environment put this group together. On 8 April this year we discussed the situation around the Turów mine with representatives of the Polish Government, which means we discussed both at the level of the prime ministers and on this issue separately the environmental ministers. We clearly signaled to the Polish Government that we see a strong risk of threats to water resources on the Czech side in connection with the planned expansion of the Turów mine. At this meeting, the Polish Prime Minister confirmed that Poland is aware of the gravity of this situation and will take the utmost steps to avoid the loss of groundwater in the Czech border. On 13 April this year, which means five days after the meeting in Warsaw, a newly established Czech-Polish expert working group met in Prague. You asked, Mr. Ambassador, what we did. We have started a really intense negotiations with the Polish side. Such intense negotiations in the past have not been conducted on this matter. A working group was therefore established. The second meeting of the working group was on 30 September in Bogatyni and the next meeting of the working group is being prepared for 22 December this year in Prague. At that last meeting, the Polish party informed that, contrary to the initial assumptions, the documentation for the EIA will not be prepared by the end of this year. Of course, the Czech Party requires that it be able to participate in the environmental impact assessment, and we therefore require that appropriate documentation be prepared from the Polish side and provided to the Czech side. In any case, we will proceed in those further negotiations with the Polish Party in order to achieve such behaviour of the mine owner, so that, as far as possible, groundwater on the Czech side is not threatened. If this fails, it will be necessary to negotiate compensation for the Czech party. In any case, in parallel with this process, this means negotiations with Polák and negotiations on possible compensations, if the expansion of the Turów mine could not be affected, the next step is to verify from what sources and how we as a government could help finance measures to address the loss of drinking water resources. The Ministry of the Environment is now looking into this matter, and I am counting on the fact that the material should subsequently be presented at the government's meeting. I will also meet with the Minister of the Environment tonight to balance the things that have gone well at the Ministry of the Environment and which will be a priority for the next 11 months. And I would like to assure you, honourable Members, that negotiations with the Polish Party and the issue of the impact of the enlargement of the Turów mine will be one of the priorities and it will be one of the key tasks to be given to Minister Brabec. We also need to move forward from the point of view of discussing those projects that are prepared in the region and which could ensure the availability of water resources for the people living in the region in this context. So it will be one of the priority tasks for Minister Brabec. I want to meet with the President of the Polish Government by the end of this year and also the extension of the Turów mine will be part of the agenda that we will be talking about. I will be interested in the reasons why Poland has not yet supplied the documents relating to the EIA requested by the Czech Party, and I will want to reach a new deadline to which we can get these documents so that we can assess them and, of course, comment on the impacts on drinking water sources on our side.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u33	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Ploc does not have an additional question. In the sixth interview, Mr Karel Fiedler will interpel the Prime Minister on control and supervision of execution. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u34	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, present, good afternoon, Prime Minister. I would like to follow up on what I have already said at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, and so far I have not been able to obtain the relevant answer. It was also because it did not happen today at my written interview in the morning. However, to you as Prime Minister. In the program statement of the government coalition in point 9.5, you have written: We will enforce rules that will strengthen the supervision of the executors' activities and prevent the abuse of execution and recovery of debts. Executors must not be competing entrepreneurs. I held a seminar some time ago, where it became clear that the executors consider it a business, especially those big executive agencies. I've done a written interview with Minister Pelikán. One of the points of his reply literally struck me off, where I learned that in 2010 the executor of Dr. Marek Frank of Český Krumlov had been checked for error that he had wrongly charged the costs of selling the property, which could happen, yes. However, the follow-up was carried out in 2014, in the months of May and October. The executor was found to continue this activity again. The minister filed a disciplinary action, the disciplinary court acknowledged the misconduct of the executor, and a written warning was imposed on the executioner. I find it absolutely shocking and terrible to find that a citizen who has to pay his debts if he doesn't pay them must pay every crown and is literally whipped out of it, and the executor, when he charges the costs unjustly, is only, for a period of five years, according to the report I have, so he is merely advised. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u35	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u36	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, before I can get to that particular example - because I have the documents on it, so I would like to take the liberty of drawing from these documents what the Ministry of Justice has sent me - I would just like to mention that I do not consider the matter of supervision, supervision and supervision of executives to be satisfactorily addressed. I think there is a need to continue to regulate the rules. The government approved, quite recently, this Monday, an action plan for a strategy to combat social exclusion. On the basis of this action plan, the Ministry of Justice should improve the frequency, content and transparency of controls, including mandatory disclosure of details on the Ministry of Justice's website. The Action Plan also assumes that sanctions should be tightened up and the possibility of complaining clearly. So, based on this action plan approved by the government on Monday, the Ministry of Justice will continue to address this task. [[15.10 hours]] As regards the current controls by the Ministry of Justice, the exercise of state oversight over enforcement activities is carried out by the Department of Enforcement Supervision at the Ministry of Justice. Physical checks of executives are carried out by authorized personnel, they are two-man, three-member teams, the department was staffed up during our government, i.e. that the number of people who take care of this matter in the Ministry of Justice has increased and a higher number of enforcement files are being investigated. In my opinion, more comprehensive control is being carried out and a more comprehensive profile of the judicial executor's activities can be found. This means that we have increased the number of people who go to check-in with one executioner, there is a chance to go through more execution files, so it is possible to get a more comprehensive picture of what happens at each execution office. Otherwise, as far as the particular example mentioned here is concerned, I have here from the evidence from the Ministry of Justice that it was proposed that the court bailiff be found guilty of disciplinary error and that a fine of CZK 500 000 should be imposed on him. Thus, according to my information, the Ministry of Justice suggested that this matter be dealt with with by a fine of CZK half a million, but the Supreme Administrative Court has actually ruled as has been said here by the Member, which surprised me personally also that, for the alleged disciplinary error, the Board of Deputies laid down Article 116 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (a) the order of execution of the written admonition and the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court has taken legal power 13. 5. The government here, of course, cannot influence the Supreme Administrative Court's decision. The Supreme Administrative Court decided, on the basis of a motion, on the basis of a disciplinary action by the Ministry of Justice, but assessed the matter in a different way than the Ministry of Justice assessed it in its proposal. However, what I said is true, on the basis of the action plan on the strategy to combat social exclusion, we want to continue to pay particular attention to improving the control activities of the Ministry of Justice towards individual enforcement authorities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u37	Thank you, Prime Minister. The additional question of the Member. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u38	I'll respond. So I did not have the proposal or mention in the reply from the Ministry of Justice about the motion for a fine of CZK half a million, it is new information for me from you, but the result is that in the finals it was decided otherwise, and I therefore consider the state to be completely unsatisfactory. However, according to the answers I gradually require, the frequency of checks given the number of executions is therefore very inadequate, in my opinion. And if you mentioned it, Prime Minister, the action plan, I have some information at my disposal. There is a commitment that the Chamber of Deputies does not support this very much until June next year, and I wonder if, if the amendment will be tabled, if I understand correctly, by the middle of next year, if it will be able to take effect by the end of this parliamentary term, which I see, Mrs. Ex-Minister Válková has the same opinion as I do, or I have great doubts about meeting this point in the coalition programme.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u39	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister, your follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u40	Yes. Thank you. In fact, I can confirm that the application to initiate the disciplinary proceedings against the judicial bailiff concerned was made on the basis that the bailiff in the execution order determined the executor's remuneration at an amount which, as a basis for calculating the remuneration, was contrary to the applicable executive tariff provision. This type of misconduct was found in nine execution files during the inspection. This means that the Ministry of Justice identified this error in nine files and filed a complaint against the cavalry and proposed a fine of CZK 500,000. So that's based on the information I have at my disposal. Unfortunately, the government cannot be responsible for the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, which has assessed the matter differently from its point of view and decided much more mildly. And I agree with you that a written reminder as a result of a process that undoubtedly cost the taxpayer a considerable amount of money, because something cost the control, checking the files, something cost the relevant negotiations, and so that the result is a written reminder, so it doesn't seem like a very good conclusion to this story.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u41	Thank you. In the seventh interview, Mrs Markéta Adamová will intersect the Prime Minister in the matter of compulsory mathematics graduation. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u42	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Prime Minister, by the amendment to the School Act, your government has introduced a mandatory math degree. It should have been introduced since 2020-2020. So let's look at whether to even introduce mathematics as a compulsory graduation course, which I personally am not an advocate, but I really don't want to talk about it right now. Last week, Minister of Education Valachová announced that the obligation of mathematics graduation from 2020/2021 will apply only to grammar schools and lycea. Only two types of schools have been selected from about 60 fields and others will be exempted for one or two years. That's for the government to decide. This completely uneven approach lacks logic. There are types of secondary schools in which the ability to pass the math exam is mainly an expression of the ability of a pupil to study further in tertiary education, i.e. in a university. It's high school. On the contrary, there are types of schools whose graduates must be able to graduate from mathematics and need it regardless of whether they will study at university or not, because it is important for their future profession. These are e.g. industrial schools, secondary technical schools etc. The delay is explained by the need for a change in the financing of regional education, thanks to which the teaching of mathematics, which everyone is calling for, should be improved. Even after the change in funding, the time grants for mathematics will be the same, the same will be the teachers. How, then, does mathematics improve through a change in funding? Can you be specific, please?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u43	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u44	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the good news is that there will finally be money for positive changes in our education. Next year, there is an increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Education by CZK 13 billion, which is the biggest year-on-year increase since 1989, so it is evident that the changes that the Ministry of Education is going through will finally be funded. As far as compulsory math graduation is concerned, this is just one of the steps to improve education in mathematics and also to promote the logical thinking of pupils. The approved amendment to the Education Act introduces three compulsory examinations of the common part of the graduation, namely from Czech language and literature, foreign language and mathematics, and the obligation to carry out three compulsory examinations will apply for the first time in the school year 2020 and 2021 for the selected fields of education. When approving this amendment, it was expected that from 2021 the mathematics exam would be compulsory for about six dozen disciplines, where mathematics is taught most intensively. The Minister of Education, Youth and Sports has presented two options. The first is that, from 2021 onwards, compulsory mathematics would be composed by students of grammar schools and lycees, and one year thereafter students of other schools. The second option envisages a two-year period of compulsory mathematics graduation at all schools except for grammar schools and lycees. That means compulsory graduation would start there in 2023. [[15.20 hours]] The consensus is that the obligation to pass the compulsory mathematics exam will first concern pupils of schools who teach mathematics intensively, i.e. they teach mathematics for at least ten hours a week in the sum of four years. The government has decided that compulsory mathematics graduation will be introduced according to the original plan at grammar schools and lycees in 2021, in secondary vocational schools the compulsory mathematics graduation is not yet established from 2020 to 2022. The exception will be the schools of artistic, medical and social disciplines, which will not be subject to the compulsory examination of mathematics. The introduction of compulsory mathematics graduation was planned as a phased project, according to the amendment of the school law. By decree of the government, they were merged into one wave of secondary vocational school and school. I would like to point out that the main reason for the proposed suspension of compulsory graduation at vocational schools are the upcoming changes to regional education funding, which should be launched in 2018. These changes will create conditions for successful education in mathematics in the form of a new system of divided classes, which could significantly contribute to the improvement of the quality of this course. This new system should allow the division of classes to teach mathematics into groups. I would also like to stress that the school changes will no longer be paid according to the number of pupils, i.e. They won't have to fight for every pupil. It is important that this reform of regional education funding is actually launched in 2018. The Union of School Associations of the Czech Republic also welcomes the change, which said that, contrary to the original proposal, there will be an extension of the obligation to all graduates of education, except in the fields of artistic, health and social services. This is a step he perceives. The Union of School Associations as a positive shift. On the edge, I would also like to mention that the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports has now announced an experimental verification of the knowledge of high school mathematics according to the catalogue of requirements for the selection examination of mathematics for the school year 2016 and 2017.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u45	Thank you. The honourable Member has an additional question. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u46	I'd like to thank you for your answer, but I'm not much for it, because the answer didn't contain what I asked. I asked how mathematics would improve specifically by changing funding. You didn't answer that much. If I can take class division for an answer, that can happen now, and it is not quite the explanation I expected. I believe that both you and Minister Valachová are simply using this argument as such to justify this delay and the unequal conditions you create for them. You will only create a situation where students of high school and lycee are at a disadvantage from the others. Indeed, these are unequal conditions for secondary schools, and in this case, I call on you to consider whether to do not, if it is already a delay, so for everyone, that this is a level playing field.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u47	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u48	Thank you. honourable Members, I am not convinced that we will solve all problems by putting them away. It's such a popular method in politics that we just don't know what to do with it, so let's put it off. The delay is not the solution. The solution is to launch a reform of funding for secondary education. We here need to approve reform in the Chamber of Deputies, we need to approve an amendment to the school law. If this goes well, we need to get funds into the state budget for 2018 so that the reform can be launched. And that's a qualitative change. The fact that the school will have more money for teachers, for more time, is a qualitative change. The fact that there will be fewer children in the classes because more frequent division into groups will be possible is a qualitative change. That's the obvious thing. The fact that schools won't have to fight for every failing pupil anymore, just when the student can't do it, he'll leave school and it won't have catastrophic economic consequences for the school as it does today, when the school is afraid of leaving school, even if he doesn't, even if he doesn't have academic results, it's a qualitative change. That's gonna change the atmosphere in the classrooms. It'll change the mood in school. Pressure will increase on the quality of education, on the results of education. So here I think the qualitative change is. It is only necessary for the Chamber of Deputies to support regional education reform. And we also need our government to have funding for this reform when it is planning the 2018 budget. Twenty years - twenty years are spoken of reform of regional education. And everyone just solved it by saying, well, let's put it off. The same applies to math graduation - so let's put it off. We're not gonna put it off. We're up for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u49	Thank you, Prime Minister. We're getting to the eighth interpellation. Mr Jiří Koubek will intersect the Prime Minister on the sale of the housing fund in Písnice. Please, Mr. Mayor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u50	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, thank you for being present at the patronage. I'm contacting you on the matter of the Song Housing Fund. As you know, time is running out, you've already been intersected by two colleagues before me today, and there will be others. It was remarkable yesterday's statement that the government cannot interfere with the planned sale of the ČEZ energy group's apartments in Prague's Písnice, even though it is the majority owner of the company. You think he should have a chance to get the capital or the city section. I am the mayor of the relevant city district, and we have this interest. Last week, the capital city of Prague promised us funds for purchase, respectively. On Monday, under the terms of the competition, we became interested in the competition. Thanks to us, Appendix 2 has changed the conditions of this competition so that it can participate in the urban part, because it has not yet been possible. Until now, only a legal or natural person could participate. And I don't want to believe what you're saying to your colleagues today. You're saying we can't interfere. Prime Minister, time is running out. The city section has the money promised, it has the opportunity to enter. Yesterday, it adopted a clear resolution that we want to do this. It is this resolution that I have sent you today and which you are familiar with. [[shows]] And you're here to tell the citizens that there's nothing you can do? We don't need those repeated litany from you. We just need one thing. Take the phone, call the CEO of ČEZ and say: the situation has changed radically since last week, the city part can be involved. And announce Appendix 3 that you extend the deadline for the submission of tenders until 27 June 2017 so that the urban part can also be involved. Prime Minister, don't you want to do this or can't you?!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u51	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u52	First of all, I would like to say that the government cannot interfere with CEZ's activities, although I would like it. It would be beautiful if we could adopt resolutions on the government and instruct ČEZ. This is not really possible. The only person exercising shareholder rights in ČEZ is the Ministry of Finance, which performs them at the general meeting of ČEZ for the Czech Republic. So I informed the Finance Minister about all the facts and asked him to discuss it with the management of ČEZ and to check all the facts with ČEZ. In the event that I receive a letter from the mayor who mentioned it, I shall refer the letter to the Minister of Finance to investigate the matter. I haven't had the letter in my hand yet, so I don't know what its contents are. But if the mayor sent the letter to the Office of the Government today, I will find out if the letter has arrived, and if it has arrived, this letter will still be referred to the Ministry of Finance today, and I will ask the Minister of Finance to comment on it quite specifically. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u53	Thank you. Ambassador, please, you have an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u54	Additional question and information. Your assistant confirmed that you had the letter. You're saying that you can't participate, that you can't participate, that the shareholder rights are exercised by the Minister of Finance. Did you know that last week another minister of your government met with Mr. CEO Daniel Beneš on this matter? You know that? Will your ministers inform you that they are engaged in this matter when you say you can't? How can you even say that in here? You're absolutely untrustworthy! And I would like to point out that in the last issue of the Reporter, we were all able to read that Mr Babiš, as Minister of Finance, instructed the management of CEZ not to apply for the purchase of shares in Slovak power plants or for the purchase of coal assets from the relevant company. Prime Minister, so it's obvious that if you want to, you can do CEZ! And if you're supposed to pick up the phone and say "extend the deadline so the city part can get involved," you just don't want to!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u55	Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u56	I'm sorry, but I think it would be good not to mix things that have absolutely nothing to do with each other. What the Member quoted here about some purchases of ČEZ and some instructions from ČEZ is a quote from the media. And I can hardly speak here for the Finance Minister if he has given or has not given instructions in this regard. Here I would recommend, Mr President, contact the Minister of Finance and Vice-President of the Government with an interview and ask him whether the claims in Reporter magazine are true or not. As for the meeting, yes, I was informed by a letter from the Minister of Finance that a meeting had taken place at the Ministry of Finance, which was attended by the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Agriculture and the CEO of ČEZ.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u57	Mrs Věra Kovářová, who will interpel the Prime Minister in the RUD and EET case, will give another interview. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u58	Dear Prime Minister, I am addressing you with an interview on two issues, the common denominator of which is the Minister of Finance Babiš. The first issue is the issue of budgetary determination of taxes. Following the meeting that took place at the beginning of this week at the Ministry of Finance, which resulted in a clear request from organisations representing the interests of municipalities and cities to increase the share of municipalities and cities in the return of value added tax to 23.58 %, Minister Babiš stated that the increase in this share is not hindered. From his speech, I concluded that the problem may be the will of the coalition partners of the Minister of Finance, so I would like to ask you whether my assumption is correct and in the way of increasing the tax revenues of self-governments, which are the best economic operators, really stands social democracy or the People's Party, or I am wrong and you are willing to support any proposal increasing the incomes of municipalities and cities. Thank you for your answer and I'll save the second question for an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u59	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u60	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a working group in the Ministry of Finance dealing with the reform of the budgetary determination of taxes for municipalities. Our government has already increased its own budget revenues for the regions, we have increased budget allocation for the regions, and this has clearly supported social democracy. I am convinced that we need to quickly complete the debate, which also concerns the budgetary determination of taxes for municipalities. In my view, first of all, the issue of local communication care must be taken into account, because it is obvious that at state level, with the exception of a small subsidy title at the Ministry of Regional Development, there is no subsidy programme to address repairs and reconstruction of local communications in the long term. So here I think we need to make a deal with municipalities and cities and look for an option. And if there is no grant title, I think the issue of repair and maintenance of local communications should be addressed within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes. Similar discussions are also being held with regard to the financing of school facilities. This means that we need to complete the technical debate, we need to find the necessary coefficients. And I can clearly say that if the Finance Minister comes to the government with an adjustment to the budgetary determination of taxes, which will address the financing of local communications in municipalities and will also address sufficient funding for schools where municipalities are responsible for schools, where schools are setting up, I do not see any problem in not supporting such a proposal at the government's meeting. But it hasn't happened yet. So far, no proposal has been made for government negotiations, or the government has not been confronted with such a proposal. And once again, I stress what I care about is that we solve the problem of financing local communications in order to solve the financing of education. I know there are parliamentary proposals here that are trying to solve the problem as well. However, for us as a government, an exit from the working group at the Ministry of Finance is important, and I would like that working group to give the government a clear opinion on how to proceed, how the coefficients will be adjusted. This is not only about the amount that should be increased by the budgetary determination of taxes for municipalities, but also about the problems that we can solve with this increase in the budgetary determination of taxes for municipalities. At the same time, it's not a question of accounting tricks, but if we raise the RUDs by, say, eight billion, we have to take that eight billion somewhere at the same time. So that's the last thing we need to figure out. Those who say we're going to increase the RUD, I'm in favour, but we also need to say where we're going to take the eight billion so it's not gonna go down to an increase in the state budget deficit. If this solves the problem of local communications in the long run, if it solves the problem of funding primary schools, then it is definitely something worth thinking about. I'm in, but let's also figure out where we'll take the eight billion crowns in the state budget balance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Thank you, Prime Minister. Please, Madame, a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u62	I was on that task force yesterday, Prime Minister. The agreement was 23,58% with the possibility that this could be resolved from 2018 onwards and the state budget could prepare for this. And given what numbers are falling here about tax collection, I think it's definitely gonna come for those municipalities. Local communication and school financing can be dealt with at other times. I'd just be quick to follow up on the second question. The Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš admitted yesterday that there is a group of businessmen who have already spent the costs of involving the EET system in confidence in the form of the Act adopted, but ultimately, if his parliamentary amendment is approved, they will be excluded from this system. The unnecessary cost of engaging in this system is from the point of view of these tradesmen the damage that Minister Babiš is supposed to replace from his own pocket. At least he promised yesterday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u63	Ask a question, Madame, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u64	Prime Minister, do you consider this way of preparing such important legislation to be professional and follow-up? From the point of view of the public concerned, these are indeed difficult to predict legislative highs, which should not be repeated again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u65	Thank you, too. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think it is entirely happy to submit amendments to the e-booking of sales at the last minute. I also do not think it is good to do this in the form of a sticker here in the Chamber of Deputies. I have been informed that many amendments concerning electronic sales records have been read here in the course of the discussion of the tax package. However, the law is not open. The tax package did not include an amendment to the e-booking of sales law, so I am afraid we are returning to an old, well-known discussion of the stickers here in the Chamber of Deputies. And it's kind of a label festival here in the Chamber of Deputies that we're experiencing in connection with the EET. In my opinion, changes should not be made at the last minute. If the Treasury had arguments and reasons, it should have come up a year ago. At a time when the relevant legislation was approved. It is not possible to modify the rules during the game and to introduce business entities into uncertainty. So, in my opinion, the less exceptions, the better. Because every exception means injustice to whom the exception will not apply. And the more these exceptions will be, so those who will have to keep electronic sales records, no one will get rid of them, so, of course, they will feel every such change as something that is unfair to them. Moreover, when these things are late, when the first stage starts, when entrepreneurs are logically dealing with the second stage, it is not so far, it is in March. So I think it's important to think about those entrepreneurs who already have to make decisions about it, and they're already buying systems, and the cash registers they want will have to apply from March. So I don't think that's a happy move by the Treasury.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u67	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mrs Helena Válková will now speak with her intervention. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u68	Thank you. Prime Minister, I originally wanted to withdraw my intervention because a number of these questions have already been answered by you. But the answers are too general for my taste, in a number of cases they place responsibility for the current situation in the case of privatization of the flats of the people of Písnice to another, namely the Ministry of Finance, and especially from it somehow escapes the basic answer and, at the same time, the taking of responsibility for why you let the situation get so far. I myself met her on the agenda of my parliamentary office, where I, too, as a lawyer whose opinions she values, have been turned over by the representatives of the citizens concerned by the unfortunate privatisation. After studying the materials, I come to the conclusion that it really is not true that it would be a transparent public competition, that there are a number of ways to avoid the obligations arising from who would win it, that I certainly, and I know this very well as a former member of your government, was to place this matter on the agenda of the government's negotiations at least as information. And certainly, if you're here by saying you don't like to postpone things, then why have you put this off for so long, and why have you been content with just that kind of thing, I'd like to be told by the Sexless Statement of the Ministry of Finance? Moreover, it is not true either, because I know that the Ministry of Finance has continuously developed a number of activities which have led to precisely what Mr Koubek has been talking about or at least contributed to this. And as far as I know, yesterday or today, they were dealing with residents.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u69	I'm sorry, Madame, your time. Question, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u70	My question is quite specific to you. Why have you put this matter on hold for so long, and why haven't you made an extraordinary point at the government's meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u71	Thank you, too, Madame. I'll ask the Prime Minister to answer us. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u72	Thank you. I just want us to move in precise terms, honourable Members. Those apartments are private. Those flats aren't state. Unfortunately, they're not even municipal. Those flats have been privatized in the past by being historically inserted into ČEZ, and this was not the government, that is, those flats are the private property of ČEZ today. CEZ is 70 percent owned by the government. And certainly there was no delay or delay, because as soon as I learned about this matter that flats were being sold, I learned about it from public sources, and I learned about it on the basis of the interviews and letters I received, so I turned to the finance minister and asked him to examine the matter, and I turned to him twice in writing on this matter. And if there's a meeting going on at the Treasury Department, that's fine, because the Treasury is supposed to deal with this. No one else can do it because it's the Treasury that exercises shareholder rights. I just want to remind you that, with the exception of selected companies, the Ministry of Finance is exercising shareholder rights for all other companies where the State is to participate. At the time the National Property Fund was abolished, most of these rights were transferred to the Ministry of Finance. So if I have received a letter from the city district of Prague-Libuš, I will certainly also address the Minister of Finance in this matter and ask him to examine the matter and give an opinion from the point of view of the entity exercising shareholder rights here for the state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u73	Thank you. I would like to ask you whether you will ask an additional question, Madame. [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u74	I repeat a question I didn't get an answer to, or I got it in a form that I didn't understand. Why was this point not included or designed to be included in government discussions at a time when there was even more room to look for constructive solutions than now, when we are on the brink of time? As we know, the deadline will expire tomorrow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u75	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u76	Thank you. honourable Members, I believe that the deadline for submitting offers has been extended, that it was precisely a question of the fact that the ministers began to deal with the matter, that the government became interested in it, that is, that we have addressed questions towards ČEZ. And I suspect there's been an extension of the bid deadline. But this is a matter of CEZ company decision making. That's not for the government to decide. And to be honest, we have never replaced the decision-making of the authorities of the company in those three years at the government's meeting. I don't think we can be dragged into violation of the laws of the Czech Republic. In this respect, the government must respect that it acts on the basis of the law, acting within the framework of the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u77	Thank you, Prime Minister. I will therefore now request an interview by Mr Pavel Plzák on the CETET trade agreement. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Dear Prime Minister, 31. 10th of this year, a CETA trade agreement was signed between the European Union and Canada. The signature of this Agreement delayed the refusal of the Regional Belgian Parliament's position, without whose consent the Belgian Government could not sign the document. I ask you to explain why, in the case of the Czech Republic, this agreement was not discussed before the signature at all in the Chamber of Deputies, although its application may have a significant effect on the Czech Republic in resolving trade disputes, I mean primarily arbitration proceedings. I also wonder when it is planned in our Parliament and what will happen if it is not approved in the House. I have asked our MEPs the same question, and I have been told that it is only a matter of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies whether they will request to negotiate such an important agreement before signing it. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u79	Thank you for your intervention, Mr. Ambassador, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u80	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the CETA Agreement has been negotiated for seven years. Our government has been there for less than three years. That means we inherited the negotiation of this treaty from our predecessors. And that negotiation was concluded during our term of office, which means that the process has now reached a stage where the agreement will be approved by individual national parliaments. This means that the Government of the Czech Republic will submit an agreement here to the Chamber of Deputies and also to the Senate. I suppose we could present this agreement by the end of this year or next spring, so that the ratification process can be implemented. The Ministry of Industry and Trade has commissioned a study of the impacts of the CETA agreement on the Czech economy. This study will be available to Members and Senators for Parliament. And, of course, it depends on the decision of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate whether or not they ratify this agreement. It is a so-called mixed agreement, which means it will be ratified in individual Member States, in individual parliaments. As far as the blockage from part Belgium is concerned, therefore, the conclusion of an agreement at European level, but now it will have to follow the ratification process in the various parliaments of the Member States. According to the previous analyses available to our government, the CETA Treaty significantly reduces the burden on trade between the European Union and Canada and for the Czech Republic, which is significantly pro-export oriented, that is, exports goods and services, the CETA Agreement could mean a number of new opportunities from the point of view of our exports as such. However, the government cannot anticipate the outcome of the ratification process, and that will be the decision of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u81	Thank you, Prime Minister. There won't be an additional question. I will therefore now ask Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová to ban institutional education until the age of seven. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, I am interrogating you on the Government-approved initiative of the Council of the Czech Government on Human Rights to unify services for vulnerable children and to regulate the conditions for providing residential services to these children. In this resolution, you are ordering Minister Marksová and Minister Valachová to cooperate with both ministries by 30. 6. 2017 submitted a proposal for legislation on the harmonisation of social prevention services, services providing residential care to children, social health services or educational services, and other services for vulnerable children and their families under their responsibility under one department, further submit a proposal for amendments to the relevant laws, which will limit the possibility of placing children under seven years of age in collective care facilities. I am very sorry that, as Prime Minister, you will approve a project that is presented to you, and all the documents submitted to the government are unprofessional, written unilaterally and effectively. For several times, the government has decided on the basis of non-profit-making organisations rather than on the basis of professional expertise in the field. However, this is not particularly appropriate for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which constantly rejects any arguments made by experts. Dear Prime Minister, I would ask you, first of all, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, to request documents which are processed in a professional and qualified manner. I also ask you, as Prime Minister, to consider your approved intention and reconsider your position. Your decision is aimed at the complete liquidation of institutional education in the Czech Republic, and thus also professional and highly specialised care for children in foster family care, which is envied by the whole world. Do you really want to join the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs' intention, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u83	Thank you, Madame. I'll ask the Prime Minister to answer your question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u84	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I wish to reject the fact that the government would be wounded by institutional care. I think it is important to realise that this is a transformation of care for vulnerable children. In the resolution adopted by the Government, when the question of the prohibition on institutional education under the age of seven is that it can and must be defined the conditions under which this will exceptionally be possible. That is, we want the rule for raising children, which must therefore be taken care of, to be raised in a family environment. Primarily, therefore, we want to use surrogate families, which means reducing the number of children who grow up in constitutional education, and for those who are unable to use alternative families, they should continue to be in residential facilities, but only if, for example, they are needed on the basis of their health condition. We expect that in the coming years - and this will not be a process that lasts one, two, three, four years, it will be a few years - these residence facilities should be reduced, they should gain more community character, there should be as few groups of children as possible to make it as close to the family environment as possible, but there is no way we can do without such accommodation facilities in the future. We are merely trying to ensure that more and more children are gradually placed in a family environment. Here's a match between the relevant resorts. At the same time, there will be a uniting of services for vulnerable children and their families under one resort, which has not yet happened here in the past, which means that this thing should be united under the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the relevant legislation should be processed. This legislation will be renegotiated at the level of the government and will, of course, also be discussed at the level of the Chamber of Deputies. These draft strategies should be submitted by 30 June 2017. Rather, it can be expected that then Parliament will not discuss legislative proposals until the next parliamentary term. Nothing will be done without agreement being reached on the amendment of relevant bills. However, the government has confirmed the trend that has been going on for many years, and which is widespread in many other developed countries, we are trying to ensure that as many children grow up in a circle of foster families, that is, in a family environment, that as few children are forced to grow up in institutional care as possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u85	Thank you. Madam, would you like to ask an additional question? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u86	Thank you for the floor. I must say that this time, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has also written you very well and exactly as they argue. The fragmentation of the system, as you're arguing here, is what you're approving here. That's one thing. As far as institutional care is concerned, I must say that in the Ústí Region, we have 100% fulfillment in institutional care. Of course, we have a different group of people, we're a little special, but no one takes our arguments into consideration and, above all, doesn't take into account the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Don't be mad at me, but take examples from England, USA, you're really joking. Is that what you really want, Prime Minister, to go so far as to stop knowing about our children and find them on the streets and God knows where else?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u87	Thank you. Prime Minister, I'm going to ask you for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u88	Thank you. I am convinced of this, and of course I have visited many of these institutions and I visit that the children in these institutions are well cared for. I don't criticize care in these institutions, I just think that the children who grow up there, if they had the chance to grow up in a family environment, in an environment that would get as close to the family environment as possible, that it would be better for them. It's just not something we should envy or wish for, spend our childhood, grow up in an institution, grow up without family background. I think that the trend that is in the Czech Republic, and you know that since 2006, there has been a possibility of placing a child in foster care for a transitional period, since 2013, this thing has been widely used, gradually strengthening and increasing the number of children who are placed in foster families, and I do not think that in the Czech Republic children end up on the street because they are placed in spare families. And I think that the situation in each region needs to be taken into account. And once again, I stress that this government will not approve any documents that forcefully disrupt the capacities that are needed from the point of view of society. These capacities need to be used, but at the same time look for alternatives, and if the need for these capacities is really reduced, we can gradually remove them. But today we are not in this situation, the process may take five or seven years, we are preparing legislative proposals that would lead to this, the many-year process of transformation and the strengthening of the number of children who will have a chance to grow up outside the constitution and have a chance to grow up in a foster family.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u89	Thank you. We have two minutes until 4:00. I ask Mr Novotný whether he wants to submit his intervention. There is a risk that it will not be answered on the grounds that from 16 o'clock individual members of the government will be intersected. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u90	Hello. The only wording I can ask the Prime Minister to make it is: Mr. Prime Minister, what do you say? You know what for. [[Glee in the hall.]] I mean, therefore, the condolence statement of the representatives of the European Commission to the death of the dictator Fidel Castro.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u91	Thank you. Prime Minister, you have about a minute to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u92	Thank you. The MP asks if Fidel Castro was a villain or a hero. [[Resurrection in the O.R.]] I have to say, both. Probably both, as they usually do. Started out a hero, ended up a dictator. Unfortunately, that's reality. I think he was hurt, and he was also very hurt by the bipolar division of the world. So he started out as a hero, unfortunately he ended up a dictator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u93	Thank you, Prime Minister, for keeping your time in order. I would like to inform the House of Honor that it is 16 o'clock, i.e. the time has passed when it is possible to submit the last oral question to the Prime Minister under the Rules of Procedure. Now there will be oral interpelations on other members of the government. I call on Mr Jaroslav Holík to present an interview to the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán and thus launch a block of government members' replies to the interpelation of Members. Member Petr Bendl will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, hello. And I can start the interpellation. Dear Minister, what will be the next fate of the building of the former Children's Home in Rabbit? In the past, citizens have taken a hard stand against the establishment of a refugee camp because it is in the vicinity of primary and kindergarten schools. A referendum recently took place, where 85 percent of the votes voted for the same reason rejected the establishment of a women's prison and wanted to establish a retirement home. Dear Prime Minister, before the referendum, you said in your speech that you would honor the results of the referendum. My question is, how will this building be used?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u95	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the Minister, allow me to welcome the Minister of Health, Miloslav Ludvík, among us. [[The Minister has risen. Let's hear it.]] I thank you and ask the Minister of Justice for an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u96	Thank you. First of all, I would like to set two things straight. The first is that there could not be a municipal referendum in Kraliky, because the law clearly states when a municipal referendum can be held, only on issues which fall within the separate remit of the municipality, which is certainly not whether there will be a prison in the state-owned building or not. So what happened was a kind of expression of the opinion of the citizens of the community, but it is not a referendum in the true sense of the word. I have also never said so easily that I will respect the results of the referendum. I said that if the vast majority of the citizens of the city expressed their opposition in this way to set up a prison facility there, then I would consider it a serious argument. That's a lot less. And what happened? A total of 38 percent of the eligible voters said they didn't agree to have prisons set up there. Thirty-eight percent, I don't think, is an ordinary majority, let alone a significant majority. That's an introduction for refinement. And now the context. Ladies and gentlemen, the current state of custody is 22 445. If we are to comply with the legal standard of four square meters per person, which is, for your better understanding, about two benches, the maximum capacity of our prisons today is 20 853 prisoners. So at this point, we're exceeding this capacity by almost two thousand people. And unfortunately, the outlook is negative, we still have the number of prisoners rising under the new 2010 Penal Code. In women, the situation is even worse in terms of dynamics. At this point, we have 1,458 prisoners, imprisoned women, and the increase is much more severe. We also have exceeded - we prefer not even to watch by how much, but also by exceeding the capacity of four meters, but in the law there is a second border, and that is the capacity of three meters, we must not go under there anymore, then we must not take to prison at all, and this border is 1,626 potentially imprisoned women. As I say, today we have 1,458 there and according to our models the border will be reached in August 2018, i.e. A year and a half. As Minister of Justice, therefore, I have to increase the capacity to imprison convicted women by the year and a half, if I am not to embezzle my legal duties. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the context in which I will make my decision. And, you know, I was sorry that some of the representatives of our parliamentary parties who stood there supported the movement against the prison, although there was no rational argument why prison couldn't be there, although we did quite a lot to show that prison really wasn't something to be afraid of. We have over 30 prisons. We don't have a village where there's a problem with the prison. We have prisons in tourist exposed places. Valdice are needed in the Czech Paradise, not to mention others. I don't know. I don't think prisons are something we can decide whether or not we will. We all want to catch the perpetrator of a serious crime, so we can put him in jail. And that prison can't be on Mars. The prison just has to be in some village. And -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u97	I'm sorry, Minister, your time. [[Min. - Okay.]] You'll still be given room in case of a follow-up question. There won't be an additional question, in which case I'm sorry, but the answer time is up. Now, then, Mr Bendl, with his intervention on the Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek, on Mr Juncker's observations. Mr. Juncker's statement, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u98	Thank you for the floor. I have a similar question, which my colleague Martin Novotný had just moments ago to the Prime Minister, who brought about a joy here, although I am convinced that the names such as Fidel Castro, Josif Vissarionovič Stalin or Adolf Hitler should not cause such a festivities as it was here a moment ago, because it affected the fates of thousands of people who died in an incredibly scandalous way, were abused, imprisoned, etc. European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker, in connection with Fidel Castro's death, said, among other things, the world has lost a man who was a hero to many. And the European Commission then gave its statement. I want to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs whether the Czech Republic has in any way opposed this matter. If so, how and where. If not, why did she not do so, for, apart from the thousands of human victims that Fidel Castro had committed, he also approved the invasion of the Warsaw Treaty troops into Czechoslovakia in 1968. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u99	Thank you. Please, Minister, give me an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u100	Yes, thank you. So I would like to remind myself of my own position here, which I published in connection with Fidel Castro's death. When I put it simply, I expressed myself that maybe Fidel Castro fought for freedom at some point and gained support in his own country. Perhaps he had some remarkable ideas about fighting colonialism, apartheid, which even linked him to Nelson Mandela and others. On the other hand, for me was a very important experience of the 1968 press conference, when Fidel Castro approved and supported the invasion of the Warsaw Treaty troops into the Czech Republic and stood up for the Soviet Union. And I said in the same way that his ideas lost the emancipation potential, so I think the same thing that happened to the Czech Republic happened to the Cuban people. It just bothers me that the freedom fighter, when it came to supporting a country that also wanted to grab its piece of freedom, or to fight his piece of freedom, didn't help us, even opposed us, and I think that he also stood up to his own people, when he actually prepared censorship, persecution of opponents, persecution of minorities, homosexuals, and also what we know well, the ban on emigration, the ability to travel out of the country. So he actually created a mode that is in complete contrast with freedom. This performance of mine has come into confrontation with Mr. Jean-Claude Juncker's performance as well as at a press conference. The press spokesperson of the European Commission said that the view of the Czech Republic is too narrow. And I'm glad that I got this interview, that I can respond to it and say that I believe that it is not too narrow, that the lesson given by the Czech Republic was actually given by the Cuban people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u101	Thank you. The Member seems to ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u102	Thank you for your personal attitude, however, I would expect that there will be a clear position of the Government of the Czech Republic, that the Prime Minister will appear and at least protest at the level of the European Commission and protest against such a statement. When it comes to China's interests, the President of the House, the President of the Senate, the Prime Minister and the President can immediately meet and sign something that is not a debate at the moment. When it comes to such a thing, I think that at least the government should have the ability to express protest against such a statement of commendation to Fidel Castro.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u103	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u104	I would just like to express my opinion that if we looked at the foreign press monitor, the position I said was understood as the position of the Czech Republic, it was quoted quite a lot in the context of the collision with Jean-Claude Juncker's opinion, and I feel that at this point everyone knows what the position of the Czech Republic is, thanks to the debate that has even been going on in Europe. So I believe that such things can be phrased differently, but in this case I am convinced that what we think has been said very loudly at this time, and a large number of representatives of various countries have quite noticed this. I think the result is significant. You know how it is in politics - you can give opinions that no one will notice. I'm sure this was not only noticed, but even discussed at press conferences.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u105	Thank you. Mr Radim Holeček, who is intersecting the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government of Andrej Babiš on the EET, will now speak with his intervention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u106	Dear absent Minister, my interpellation is beginning to remind you of the audience's letters. You write something, I write something. Among other things, I have been interrogating you for the second time on the issue of extremely failed television advertising on electronic sales records. On September 15, I criticized the fact that there was no mention in the advertisement of who EET was going to concern. Secondly, I criticized the amount of 18 billion, which, thanks to bondage to waiters, will save all the characters of the commercial spot. Your answer 4. 10. was: 18 billion. is a conservative estimate of the Ministry of Finance, which was carried out following the analysis carried out. Secondly, for advertising, you have told me that, besides me, there are two other advertisements aimed at entrepreneurs and informing the broad, not only do you consider the business public to be right and necessary. What was my surprise when the first lady of the EET project, your Deputy Minister Alena Schillerová, said that 18 billion in public television in the morning. is the amount that could, but with a good constellation of everything, be collected after the launch of all parts of electronic sales log. The first phase will only bring 4 billion to the state register. extra crowns. Now, questions. Was this the reason why misleading and false advertising was withdrawn and replaced by another, I would say soft roving version? Secondly, the test operation of the EET showed many times the error, the response of the Financial Administration server was so large that individual entrepreneurs could not send receipts. How is it possible that the Treasury has prepared this so badly? And thirdly, as chairman of the Sub-Committee on Personal Data Protection, I ask again: Are our data from the EET well protected? You think it's analytical, I think it's still a snoopy-bonzac system that's ordered not against the dishonest, but against everyone. And it's been said.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u107	Thank you. Your interpellation will be answered in writing. I will therefore now ask Mr Ludvík Hovorka, who intersects the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok on the current state of the contract between SŽDC and Grandi Stazioni. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u108	Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, thank you for the floor. Czech Railways in the past, I think they rented the main railway station in 2003, and I think other railway stations in the Czech Republic, some of the larger ones, Grandi Stazioni. It was a long-term lease, when the Italian company actually committed itself to repairing the main railway station and the other railway stations, and then actually for the rentals that it would use in the main railway station's premises, it would compensate for the investment it invested. As far as I know, 16. 10. SŽDC took over the main railway station with the fact that the contract was not fulfilled in the spirit that the whole building was not reconstructed, and Grandi Stazioni refused and said that it was entitled to an extension of the contract for another thirty years, and that therefore there was a breach of the contract by SŽDC. I would like to ask you what the legal situation is, if there is any arbitration, or what the income of these leases is, because, as far as I know, the company is asking SŽDC for 1.2 billion. CZK as compensation for construction costs plus lost profit for rentals from the main railway station premises. So if the Minister could answer the current state of affairs, if there's any arbitrage, or if SŽDC gets money from the state to pay for the construction costs, if it's equal to 1.2 billion. CZK and how much of the entire operation, if there was an out-of-court settlement, whether or not it would be worth what was invested in the main station over the years, over 13 years. [[I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u109	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister to answer your question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u110	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, allow me to briefly recapitulate the transfer of the train station to the Railway Infrastructure Administration. A contract was concluded between the Czech Railways, a joint-stock company, and the Railway Infrastructure Administration, a state organization on 24 June 2016 for the purchase of a part of the plant, the subject of which was the sale of a part of the České dráhy plant designated as a railway station. The Railway Infrastructure Administration acquired ownership of the part of the plant on 1 July 2016, this is the date of publication of the document on the purchase of the part of the plant in the Collection of Commercial Register documents kept by the Municipal Court in Prague. The part of the railway station's plant includes the lease agreement No. 151/03 of 17 December 2003 concluded between České dráhy and Grandi Stazioni SPA. [[16.20 hours]] On 1 July 2016 SŽDC became a Contracting Party to this lease agreement in the position of landlord. The object of this lease contract is also the obligation of the tenant to revitalize the object of the lease, the specified premises of the railway station Prague Main Railway Station, where the revitalization means in particular reconstruction, modernisation, reconstruction and repair by construction works, or assembly works, including supplies of materials and technological supplies, including works necessary for the relocation of equipment and engineering networks. The duration of the contractual relationship established by the quoted lease agreement ended on 16 October 2016 with the expiry of the lease period. Following its termination, SŽDC was obliged to deal with the tenant with technical assessment and other liabilities in the form of financial performance. The current situation is that Grandi Stazioni called on the Railway Infrastructure Administration to terminate the lease contract to cover a total of 776 million. 503 thousand. 99 kroner. The amount of this requirement is questionable at the moment, as both sides do not agree with the same interpretation. Grandi Stazioni brought an action to the District Court for Prague 1 seeking the abovementioned financial performance, and at this time SŽDC has a financial reserve for payment due to termination of the lease agreement. With regard to the other contracts concluded, I can state that Grandi Stazioni had originally entered into contracts at three stations. Prague main railway station, Karlovy Vary and Mariánské Lázně. The contract for Karlovy Vary was terminated on a proposal from the company. A penalty from the Grandi Stazioni was paid. And the contract for Mariánské Lázně runs on. The reconstruction is complete. If I may add, the situation is that Grandi Stazioni had a ten-year contract. She didn't meet her terms in ten years. The contract was extended for another three years. She didn't meet the conditions for these three years. The situation is that the Railway Infrastructure Administration has already paid the proven costs of Grandi Stazioni, and we are likely to sue for the rest. Today, the Railway Infrastructure Administration says that it is certain that the things that are faked or determined there are not verifiable construction costs. The plan is that the main railway station will continue to operate the Railway Infrastructure Administration. We're not looking for any more middlemen. The income from the rents of the premises that are there today is about 100 to 120 miles. per year. This means, from the point of view of the state, it is very worthwhile when these revenues go directly to the Railway Infrastructure Administration and will be used to repair both the main railway station and other stations. Otherwise, the Railway Infrastructure Administration has the task of preparing a comprehensive reconstruction of what the Italian party was unwilling to repair. They only repaired the parts that brought them money, and for the rest, how do you put it nicely? They just didn't deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u111	Thank you for keeping time. I ask Mr Hovorka if he wants to ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u112	Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. I would still like to ask how much is the amount of eligible expenditure invested. If it's not a secret. And then, of course, when it comes to rentals, it is of course more advantageous for SŽDC to operate on its own, because the ratio of invested money and profit from rentals, there is a great discrepancy between what an Italian partner could obtain in thirty years of rental. I'd also like to know at Mariánské Lázně if it's there, if it's going to happen, if it's going to be fulfilled in due course. And if the lease of space also means that Grandi Stazioni will probably continue again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u113	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u114	Mr Vice-President, Mr President, I will say a loss of profit. According to our lawyers' analysis, Grandi Stazioni is not entitled to any loss of profit. We didn't terminate her contract. The contract was concluded and it could not be extended. So, from this title, no claim was ever made to them. They can judge it, but we assume they shouldn't be judging it in any way. As for the amount we paid, we paid about 560 million, which is the real cost that we believe they put there. We'll probably sue for the rest, or there'll be a deal. We'll see about that. Let's leave that to the next development. As for Mariánské Lázně, there they fulfilled what the contract assumed, so there arose a claim for extension and there it will probably go in this direction. But I wouldn't want to... I don't have all the information, so I'd like to give it to you in writing. As far as the overall case is concerned, if I count it this way, even if we pay Grandi Stazioni the 780 million they want, so if we count 30 years over our thumb, times 100, 110 million, yield or profit - not yield, because there's a profit in this case, I think it's clearly better to take care of it ourselves. And I think it's going to reflect on the looks of both the main station and other stations where we're going to use the money to fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u115	Thank you, too. There will now be another interview by Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová on the Minister of Education. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u116	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Madam Secretary, I am interrogating you on the Government-approved initiative of the Czech Government Human Rights Council to unify services for vulnerable children and to regulate the conditions for providing residential services to these children. I must say that I am very sorry that, as Minister of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, you will allow this intention to be approved and de facto you will not stand up for your department at all. At least I didn't notice it anywhere. In the field of foster family care, this report caused considerable indignation, misunderstood and, above all, disappointment. I don't know if you've noticed this at all, but all the representatives of institutional care fundamentally disagree with this intention. He's trying to present his position to you. Unfortunately, they are not heard. Madam Secretary, why don't you listen to your people who are experts and have professional education? Representatives in institutional care have special pedagogical education and other necessary special education. They've had years of practice. Why doesn't your ministry ask your people in particular and have them submit documents that are unprofessional, written unilaterally and above all effectively and largely from non-profit organizations? Why are you willing to allow children's homes to be transferred to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and keep only educational institutions and diagnostic institutions in your sense? What professional decision led you to make, and what makes children's homes different from other institutional care? Have you discussed this with the County Association? The last position was fundamentally negative against the Government's approved intention. A reminder, from July 2016. How do you want to deal with e.g. sibling groups that are constantly growing? And where are the children above and below seven years of age? Do you approve of their distribution in the future? What, for example, will happen. with a child that was taken before the seventh year and was e.g. will not be in temporary foster care and subsequent foster care? So will constitutional education be ordered? [[Attention on time.]] And how will the courts deal with children for whom they will not be foster parents? Where will it be placed and under what interim measure? And how many times will the court have to extend it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u117	Thank you, too. Madam Secretary, I'm going to ask you for an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u118	Madam, honourable Members and other Members, Mr President, allow me to answer. As far as the situation is concerned, I, of course, reject the suspicion that arose with the honourable Member. As regards what the Government approved, it was a material submitted by the Minister for Human Rights. It is the approval of the complaint. That means it's not the approval of the final, final solution. What the Member is responding to is therefore a media message, because I have already made a reservation at the Government's meeting that it is in no way possible to subservient the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to diagnostic and educational institutions. And now I see the difference. The point is that it is quite clear that, in the case of diagnostic and educational institutions, children who already have much more fundamental needs are required to take educational functions into account. It can therefore be said that I do not agree that they would be the same children with the same level of support as in the so-called quotation marks for vulnerable children, because, in the case of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, such children are, in particular, children who have lost their family background for social or housing reasons and are in institutional education. For these children, who have lost their family background and are in institutional education, that is, in children's homes, and are therefore in constitutional education by the words of law and are therefore done for social and housing reasons, I fully support that their family should be supported or that their foster family care should be chosen. I note that there are 8 percent of such children in our facilities. What I refuse, however, is that it is the fault of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports or perhaps the directors of the given facilities. On the contrary, we have processed the positional material of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, which is very detailed, sent to the future Gesturer of Transformation, meaning the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which summarizes the analysis that it is a failure of the institutions of socio-legal protection of children, because, of course, these children are not part of institutional education at all. I certainly reject the fact that I would not listen both to the founders and the directors of the given facilities or that I would not be aware of the position of the Association of Regions. However, I believe that it is necessary to distinguish these two groups of children from each other, and this is what I raised at the government's meeting. Colleagues and colleagues voted with the knowledge of my position. I would like to make sure that all ministers - and here we must not forget the Minister of Health - will proceed in the best interests of the children. This is the beginning of the process. Of course, it will depend on the proposal of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. There is no doubt that this debate will take place with the participation of the general public. In the past year, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports has developed detailed analytical information on the situation in institutional facilities and within the framework of constitutional protective education, including how judicial decisions are being developed, because we know - and I have therefore stressed the importance of diagnostic institutes and educational institutions - that, on the contrary, the level of judicial decisions is increasing dramatically, which, in children with serious behavioral disorders, order as alternative penalties for constitutional education or access to protective education, and vice versa, in these children, the capacity of our educational institutes and diagnostic institutes is insufficient. Similarly, the analysis of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports found that children are placed in these facilities without diagnosis. But it is also not a matter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. At this point, this serves as a safety net for such children. That means, of course, I'm behind my colleagues. However, I would like to emphasise once again that I fully support that we start taking such steps immediately so that those children who are in institutional education for housing or social reasons are immediately supported, supported by their families, and looked for a way of support other than institutional education, because that is the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u119	Thank you. I ask the honourable Member if he has an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u120	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Of course, there are also precise resolutions in this approved plan that Mrs Marks and Mrs Marksová impose on you and on what date, and, in fact, that legislative intentions will be drawn up. But I would just like to say that I am a little lacking in you - now I am sorry, maybe I will say this wrong - an overview of what children are like in those children's homes and what it is like to have employees' education in those children's homes and facilities, because there is a need for special education and psychological support. They do not need social workers, of course to some extent, but to a minimum. The point is, you're saying that children are being placed for social reasons and for housing emergencies. It's minimal for the housing emergency. Social reasons hide a very broad concept, and those children are often from families where they are abused, from parents who are simply under addictive substances and are -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u121	I'm sorry, Madame, ask the question, your time is up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u122	Yes. I'm just missing the attitude and the stand right here at the children's homes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u123	Thank you. I'm sure Madam Secretary will be happy to answer you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u124	Once again, I dare to dissuade suspicion. I have a very detailed overview of what needs and what children we have in the framework of directly subordinate organizations, those that are directly under the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. We have precisely divided the needs of children, the degree of their threat and the degree of their needs. It is precisely because the educational element prevails there that I have raised the reservation that has been mediated here. We also have a very precise idea in terms of academic workplaces. I have prepared the opinions of the academic workplaces as to what the situation is. And here I would probably dare to prevent further overdrawing and rather offer the publication of the position of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, because it is nothing secret. After all, there are several committees on the House at the moment, several committees on the subject of constitutional or protective education for various reasons, and I have no problem with the position of the Ministry of Education being referred to these groups and let them be discussed on these groups. I'm not defending myself. On the contrary, I am very happy to visit both commissions and committees and present in detail the position of Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. Finally, I would just like to say some words of calmness towards colleagues in the framework of constitutional protective education. It is a start of work and, of course, nothing will happen without expert and open debate, which will be attended by both us and the Ministry of Labour and the Minister of Human Rights and the Minister of Health. The very list of these resorts shows that it is not possible to choose any hurried solution. No doubt all ministers are guided by the child's best interests. However, I stress once again that I insist that the 8 percent of the children do not belong in the facility, but I insist that these actions by the state should be much faster in terms of their support, so that the directors are not in a situation where they do not have the competence to change the situation of these children. [[Time warning]] Because they don't have those powers. It's not their fault.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u125	Thank you. Mr Marek Černoch, who is intersecting the Minister of Transport, will now speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u126	Thank you for the floor. I, too, would like to welcome new ministers to interpellation. My interpelation is on the issue of an opaque order for registration marks, which took place at the Ministry of Transport. Hicon has been supplying registration plates for 26 years without coming out of any competition. During this period she collected about 4 billion. Crowns. And now a few at least odd coincidences I'd like to ask you about. The tender in 2014, which was cancelled in 2015, was then offered by Hicon for one piece of the 61 CZK brand. However, the Ministry of Transport closed in 2015 with Hicon supplement number 9, in which the price is set for one piece of CZK 77, i.e. less than CZK 16 above the price offered by Hicon in the tender procedure. In 2015, the tender was cancelled, in 2016, there was a price of CZK 59 per piece and Appendix 9 remained valid, i.e. CZK 77. The difference between the price of Hicon offered in tender and the price of the supplement is CZK 18. [[16.40 hours]] In 2015 was also appendix number 10, brands on request and bike carriers, which was closed with Hicon, which extends the existing delivery of brands on request. Only the supplement was concluded outside the Public Procurement Act regime when the Ministry of Transport established the estimated value of the supply just below the limit of 2 million. CZK 15,500. However, in the summer of 2015, this quantity was increased to 24 300 brands by the Ministry. Otherwise, I would like to add that in this context it is also interesting to point out that the contracting entity has been mentioned that Hicon will deliver 12 million. pieces of brands and until then the contract cannot be terminated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u127	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, your time is up, ask a question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u128	Yes, I'm already asking a question. I would like to ask how it is possible that 26 years the company has made registration marks without coming out of a proper selection process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u129	Thank you, too. I ask the Minister to answer your question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u130	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to answer that last question and start with it. I just don't know. If I'm familiar with the history that I've had to explain, the brands were entered at the Ministry of the Interior a long time ago, the whole agenda went to the Ministry of Transport, and by 2014 there was no attempt to compete again. The first contest was announced by Minister Prachař. Unfortunately, the competition didn't go well, it was canceled by the Úohs. Based on the results of this competition, I entered negotiations with Hicon and from the original price, which was originally somewhere on 160 crowns per brand, for the standard brand 101, it then decreased to 120 and my negotiations reduced the price to 77 crowns, because we argued that Hicon's subsidiary, because Hicon did not offer it himself, was able to offer the price you mentioned. We didn't give up this effort, we competed again. Unfortunately, the tender was cancelled there again for formal reasons, but the entire anbase ends this year. The third competition, it was no longer cancelled, four candidates entered the competition. Hicon did not compete at all, yet it attacked the ÚOHS and asked for interim measures to cancel the competition. So I note that the winning bid was CZK 45. The good news is that the ÚOHS did not comply with this objection or this proposal by Hicon and did not give preliminary measures. We have taken advantage of this situation. Yesterday, a contract was signed with a new firm, a company called Security Paper Mill, for which a large international company that makes brands is responsible. We have the brand originally supplied by Hicon for CZK 160, for CZK 45. That means, from now on, the price is very standard and normal. Why it didn't compete before, I don't know, and I don't want to speculate why we did it for the third time. However, I would like to appreciate the third time it has succeeded. We have a new contract, and we'll be saving about 100 miles. each year on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u131	Thank you. The Member is on his way to an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u132	I'm sure it's commendable that the current contract is for the money, the company Security Paper Mill, which offered 45 crowns. However, it is a little startling that during all this time it took place in the order of days, although the contracts had been dealt with for a long time before and the additions were signed there. So only if I can ask the additional questions: Why were additions signed when Hicon offered a smaller amount, and it was still CZK 77. And second, if you, Minister, draw any consequences from this, because I don't think it should just be let down that there's actually been years of stealing from the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u133	Thank you. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u134	So I'm going to go back to the additions. The additions were two or three. One was to lower the price, I negotiated it. The second thing was that we were actually getting paid by an amendment to the law that introduced brands on request. Wish signs were part of the previous competitions that were unfortunately cancelled by the Úohs. So we were in a situation where we had a valid law and we had to secure the brands on request. According to all assumptions, we expected that the brands on request would be a lukewarm interest. The interest surprised us, so the original contract, which was sublime, which we negotiated with Hicon, because no one else was available at the time, was actually securing these brands. After a short time it turned out that it was not possible, I would say, to solve it in another way. That's how we extended it. On that occasion, we dealt with Hicon, but they appreciated the brands on request at a different cost than the standard brand. We haven't been able to agree on a better price. So that's one thing. As far as you're concerned, personal responsibility. People who were in charge of this area at the time the old contract ran and who didn't compete are no longer at the Ministry. The new team did everything they could to compete with her. I don't know how to deal with people who aren't there. But I don't think what they did is called stealing or a crime. They simply used and acted on existing legislation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u135	Thank you, Minister. You almost kept time. Thank you. Now, Mr Leo Luzar, once again, will interpel you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u136	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Lords of Ministers. Thank you, Minister, for being here, and I can ask my questions. Winter break for construction companies started. I hope that there will also be time to solve problems without pressure and fear. Therefore, my questions point to the situation of communication from Třinec to Slovakia, when the Portuguese company was interested in ending, and you promised some negotiations with them and the continuation of construction. So whether this construction will continue with the same company next year or if you are looking for any alternative solutions. First question. The second question is whether the Road and Motorway Directorate already knows how to bypass Opava, tracking and continuing. I know that there are quite a lot of pressure from civil initiatives, environmentalists and others. So if anything has already decided on this matter, or if any winter offensive is being prepared. And the last thing concerns the completion of the extended Rudná in Ostrava, which means connecting to the already open part of the communication to Opava from Ostrava and thus avoiding the city. In the last few days, I have received information that both the Deputy Mayor of Ostrava and the Deputy Governor have entered into some negotiations with the owner of the land that has so far blocked. Once again, we hear from politicians that this is just before the matter of property is resolved. In this context, of course, the Road and Motorway Directorate has asked for the expropriation of the land within the line construction, and I fear that there will be no conflict. If this happened, the court will decide and say that there is some kind of sign of a deal, and it would suspend it. So if it doesn't slow us down. And the last thing is the EIA. That means it went beyond the exceptions. How it looks now, whether it's moved or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u137	Thank you. I'm going to ask you, Minister, to answer this question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u138	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, there have been a lot of questions here, I will try to respond briefly to all of them. First, good news. Mota has officially sent us a statement from the contract that it does not want to carry out the construction of 1/11 or Oldřichovice and Oldřichovice - Bystřice. I had a meeting with them, invited them to the meeting of their international CEO and the owner of Mr Mota. We agreed that Mota would come back, that she would do the construction again, and that she would take over the obligations of her failing consortium partner, and that she would guarantee that she would finish the construction in time, which is, i.e. half of 2017. According to my information, they've already mobilized the building and they're back at the construction site and they're working there, intensive meetings are going on with the Road and Motorway Directorate. I think we still have a lot of work to do, but because of the negotiation where I pushed them to make them feel really ashamed, that there's no point in the world-famous company just running away from the fight, and that, if they put that price on them, they have to do it at that price, then eventually we agreed to stay there. We've made a concession, which is within the entire structure, I think, okay, that we won't insist on penalizing the ongoing milestones, but we'll target the penalization to end the construction. As for the Opava bypass, the northern bypass, the eastern part will be launched in the event of a smooth completion of the tender at the beginning of 2017, so we are working on it there. I hope that we can overcome all the objections of the public concerned. As for the extended Red, there's another interpellation for that. The situation is as you say. The new regional representation says that it is close to an agreement with the troubled owner who wants to increase the noise barriers there, which we are willing to do, so he also wants some high financial compensation that we are no longer able to do, but it is about how it is solved. And I've been informed that they may be close to a deal. The expropriation process is running parallel. As far as the EIA is concerned, there has been an investigation procedure, so there is no need to repeat the EIA, and we just need some reasonable agreement. I firmly believe, and I will knock it in the wooden counter here, that we will manage to arrange it so that we can continue on the extended Rudná, because there is about 200, 300 meters missing to make this communication work, and it is an eternal shame that it is no longer there. We'll do everything we can. Now I've dealt intensely with the Governor, and I will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u139	Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u140	I'm just a follow-up. I will be very happy, Minister, if this succeeds, and if there is any new information in the context of this development from Mr. Governor, or in the context of the purchase, I do not know how far the region, or possibly. the city will want to invest its funds, because the method is also known. [[unintelligible]] I'd be happy to have you keep us informed to avoid any disputes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u141	Thank you, too. Now, Mrs Jitka Chalánková, who will interpel the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u142	So, dear absent Madam Secretary, allow me to ask you a question that concerns the replacement care of children at risk. Since the alternative family care system has been affected since 1 January 2013 by changes to laws such as the new Civil Code and the Law on Social Law Protection for Children, we also have problems in implementing these laws during the two years that I believe would be good to remedy. Under Section 817 of the new Civil Code, young children can be kept for unnecessarily long either in institutional care, i.e. in children's centres, former infants' homes, or also as non-diagnosed children can be transferred to foster care for a transitional period before they reach a permanent option that is always more advantageous for them. What caused this? This may be due to Section 817 of the new Civil Code, which I am about to ask. Even in those children's centres, the employees of these children's centres do not want these children to be kept in institutional care for too long, but this paragraph allows the adoption to be withdrawn for a period of three months from the date on which it was issued. Previously, such a paragraph was not contained in the Civil Code. I wanted to ask you, Madam Secretary, how many times it has happened that this section 817 of the new Civil Code has been implemented since 1 January 2013. How many times such a situation has actually occurred because it has really put children in institutional care for too long, or they travel from one foster family to another until their situation is resolved. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u143	I thank you too, you will be answered in writing. I will now ask Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, who will interpel the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u144	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, before this interview, I considered who to ask this question, because if there are many unknowns, I do not know whether to ask the Minister of the Interior or possibly. Minister of Foreign Affairs. But since the Hradec Králové Region is known as a safe place to live and we citizens of this beautiful region want to have enough information about everything that could endanger the safety of our fellow citizens, I chose you for interpelation and I believe that you will try to answer me so that the information is sufficient. Cirka released information in media space two weeks ago that two Afghánec aged 20 and 26 had disappeared from flight training in Hradec Králové. After the police search was announced, police colleagues in the Federal Republic of Germany arrested them and returned the two Afghánec back to the Czech Republic. I'm going to ask a fairly simple four questions. Who are the Afghánec, who invited them here to the Czech Republic, what they are doing here and who are organizing and paying for it. Just to make sure those questions were simple, I wrote them down, and I'm gonna leave them on the table, so we can answer them all. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u145	Thank you, too. Please, Minister, give me an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u146	Mr President, honourable Members, I apologise to Mr Ondráček for your assistance. My answer will be very brief and, unfortunately, will not answer one of those questions. And the answer is that this is not within the competence of the Ministry of the Interior. I don't even have the room or the opportunity to talk about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u147	Thank you. Would you like to ask, Mr. Ambassador? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u148	It's a very interesting answer. In that case, I ask if the answer is under the classified information regime under the Secret Information Protection Act, and if not, to whom I can ask such a question, because the citizens of my region would like to know what the Afghánec are doing here, who are practicing on helicopters, who invited them here, who is funding it, what are they doing here, and why, when they are invited here, they will pick up their cracks and disappear immediately at the first opportunity to the Federal Republic of Germany. So at least the answer is, is that classified information? And eventually, there's nowhere I can look for an answer. Who's gonna give me that answer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u149	Thank you. Will you try to answer that, Minister? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u150	I can only repeat that this matter is not within the competence of the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u151	Thank you. I will therefore now request an interview by Mrs Anna Putnová, who will interpel the Minister of Youth, Education and Sports on the financing of universities. Madam Secretary is sure to be present, Madam Secretary, you will be intersected. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u152	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk today about the funding of higher education, a very narrow circle of universities, virtually. faculties, however significant for our creative industry and for industry in general. This is about funding art faculties. When art faculties were created in universities, students were evaluated by a coefficient, so called. KEN 3,5 while students at the academies were subsidized by a factor of 5.9. Students and faculties of art in universities were promised that over the years, as will their ability to prepare doctoral students, professors, professors, will increase this coefficient. This has not happened, and therefore the gap in the funding of art faculties in universities is still growing. It concerns faculties in Zlín, Brno, Ostrava, Opava, Liberec, Pilsen and I may have forgotten someone else. I would like to ask, Madam Secretary, whether the financing of art faculties for the future will be dealt with by some systemic measure and, if not, whether it is envisaged for 2017 with a settlement through a special fund, as it was last year, respectively. This year, because these faculties provide the same results, very comparable to the academies, however their financing is actually halfway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u153	I will thank you and ask the Minister to answer you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u154	Mr President, honourable Members, as we did this year, we are also assuming next year through the so-called 'Supreme Council'. the grant programme F, which is the only instrument that I have to take into account the peculiarities of education in universities, that art faculties will therefore be supported by further subsidy in order to take into account the fact that these faculties do not have the same recognition as those of large universities or universities, the so-called. scientific outputs. So we're aware of that and we're going to deal with it this way. The system solution of these fields, as well as others, will be in the framework of three-year contract financing from 2018.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u155	Thank you. Your follow-up answer, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u156	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I think it's a good message for next year for all the arts faculties. This means, therefore, that they can apply to this fund, which will enable them to contribute and support them. Especially art faculties, because in the past the support was spread out among the academies, which is possible, but you subsidize those who are already subsidized enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u157	Thank you. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u158	Yes, the arts faculty will be supported, as I said before. Perhaps just for those who are not fans of artistic education in universities, I just want to stress that art faculties are, for example, art faculties. and faculties of design etc., it means there is a great connection and connection with technology and technology. So much for those who, on the contrary, support technical education, that the Ministry's approach is completely balanced.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u159	Thank you. Now, Mrs Zuzana Šánová will interpel the Minister of Health. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u160	Hello, folks, hello, Mr. Secretary. I'm pleased to be the first to interpel you. And now for the interpellation. A new § 138b is introduced into the sickness insurance law, in which the obligation is imposed on midwifes in paragraph 1a, under the threat of committing an administrative offence, determining the expected date of childbirth on the prescribed form and other obligations related to the issue. I find it absurd that a high school-educated midwife can do the same. according to Decree 55/2011 Coll. § 5 to diagnose pregnancy without professional supervision. The date of birth is determined most accurately by ultrasound examination during the first trimester of pregnancy, in practice at the 10th to 11th weeks of pregnancy. According to the calculation according to the last menstruation, the date of birth can only be determined ideally, which, as we know, may occur very rarely. At present, the condition is that a doctor who does not meet a woman during pregnancy confirms her term of birth, which is also absurd for me. So, Minister, are you assuming that every midwife will own an ultrasound machine? Which I still consider feasible. But how will you ensure the expertise of a high school-educated midwife when assessing the outcome of the examination should always be a university-educated specialist, a doctor, and that is with a specialization? I also ask, where do you get the assurance that health insurance companies will enter into a contract with these business individuals - or have you already consulted with them? And what will be the reward of the midwife for her activities? Will he be equal to the doctor's reward? I also ask whether you have this proposal discussed with the Czech Medical Chamber, with the Gynecological Professional Society and whether these agree with your proposal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u161	I'm sorry, Madame, your time is up. You'll be able to put the rest on follow-up questions. I'm going to ask the Minister to answer your first response to the interpellation. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u162	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, I am truly happy that you are the one who will wipe the crap out of my innocence as Minister, because I am the Minister at this point in the seventh hour. So I can only answer the question at this point that the midwife is now regulated by the First Act of 96/2004 on professional qualifications in nonmedical health professions, where they are regulated in Section 6 paragraph. 3 where it is directly stated that the profession of midwife is considered to be the provision of healthcare in the midwife's assistance, which is to ensure the necessary supervision, provision of care and advice to women during pregnancy, childbirth and six-days, as long as they are carried out physiologically, and the conduct of physiological childbirth and the provision of newborn care. This health care also includes nursing care for a woman in the gynaecology section. Furthermore, the activity of these workers is regulated by Decree 55/2011, where it is actually written in § 5 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (d) that the midwife may diagnose pregnancy. At this point, I can only say that the practice is, and as I know it a little bit from the hospital, that the midwife will perform a pregnancy test and, at a positive result, send a woman to an ultrasound, which, of course, is only qualified to perform by a doctor who has the appropriate specialization, which shows, in a way, that the final result of pregnancy will be performed by a doctor, and I know, of course, that the calendars are very popular, which calculate exactly the date of expected delivery. So basically, a midwife can only issue a pregnancy card today based on the instructions. I hope that I did not grieve you too much for my first answer. Otherwise, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u163	Thank you. I wonder if the honourable Member will still ask her additional questions. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u164	Thank you for your answer. But there's no indication that a woman has to visit that gynecologist. That's the problem. That she could only confide in the midwife. And I would also like to ask how the possible responsibility of the midwife for complications is solved, when according to § 67 it is based on the equivalent of a doctor. Minister, are you okay with the fact that these changes in several legal standards degrade medical education and occupation?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u165	Thank you. Please, Minister, your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u166	Mr President, Madam President, and now I will have to refer to a written reply, because at this point I am not able to answer so precisely. However, as stipulated, you will receive a written reply. And thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u167	Thank you, Minister. The reply will therefore be delivered in writing. I will now ask Mr Josef Kott to interpel him to the Minister of Foreign Affairs on business cards. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u168	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, based on the personal experience of a representative of the production company from the Highlands, I would like to allow you to interpelate the following. The manufacturing company has identified 50 future Vietnamese workers with whom it has entered into employment contracts. She secured the necessary confirmation of their accommodation and all on the basis of the assigned number from the MPSV registry. With these documents flew their authorized worker to Vietnam, where he provided the other necessary documents for submitting a job card application from the Vietnamese authorities and ensured that their own applications were completed and prepared for submission at the Embassy of the Czech Republic in Hanoi. The accuracy and completeness of all matters subsequently verified in person with the consulate's staff in Hanoi. However, he received information that the actual act of filing an application was a simple and, in particular, a long-term problem. In his opinion, he believes that the Czech Embassy's lack of personnel equipment is needed to manage the smooth reception of these applications. My question, then, Minister, is whether you can please confirm this assumption or this fact that the situation at the consulate in Hanoi is so complex. And how can we proceed so that everything can be settled faster and the required work cards can be exposed in time. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u169	Thank you for your intervention and I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u170	Yes, thank you. I suppose it was therefore a request to grant long-term visas, work cards or employee cards. And apparently here it comes down to the fact that the VISAPOINT system does not allow those concerned to log in at some imaginative time and that they have encountered this obstacle. We have VISAPOINT at 31 representative offices. It's more or less working. The problems are in three offices: Ukraine, Mongolia and Hanoi, Vietnam. That's the one you're talking about. It can be said that because the system works based on the fact that you can log in online, but you are depending on whether there will be an opening. It's bouncing at a certain interval, the capacity is limited. That means getting into that system may not be easy, because you won't be able to log in just when the vacancy comes up. That wouldn't mean that the VISAPOINT system is failing, it's just like a queue system that's long and that they've logged in to - it's like it's not standing outside here, but it's more or less creating a queue on the VISAPOINT system. We are able to sort it out now, or we are looking for a solution in Ukraine, where we have actually increased the number of workers who are there. I will even submit another request to the government for further increase of workers in Lvov. We've already added four, now we'd be adding more. So in Ukraine we created a system because there is also a similar situation and a certain high interest. So if we want to process more requests and if the interviews are to work faster, we have created a system in which it works as you indicated. That the company is picking employees, and based on that we have created such a fast track, such a quicker procedure for those who are already identified, where the companies have the people found. And that's where we're able to get, say, 330 a month today. Now, I'm gonna put a motion in the government to increase the number of workers, and then we could hire, like, 550 a month. But that's Ukraine. In the case of Vietnam, it's a strange story. That's a different situation. And we're also thinking about choosing a way to speed things up. But I can't promise you right now that I would be able to just hire new workers to Vietnam because we don't have new buildings there. In Lviv, Ukraine, there was an advantage that we have an object there, we don't have to buy, we have somewhere to put these people. And it would probably be even more expensive in Vietnam. To give you an idea, in the case of Ukraine, that means another 20 million I'm asking of the Ministry of Finance. We've probably already made a deal here, so we'll be able to get it approved by the government, and we'll be able to strengthen it, and we'll be able to increase the number of employees that will find those businesses there, and we'll be able to actually accept them with that fast track. In the case of Vietnam, it would be much more expensive. Just because we don't have objects, it wouldn't be enough for the workers and it would be much more expensive. So I can't tell you here that, in Vietnam, we're able to fundamentally reverse the situation or change it in a short time, like we're doing it in part, and it's probably going to be even more in Ukraine. And the reason why it would be a bigger, more complicated discussion, because we need several ministries to expand it. It's not just a matter of the State Department. For this we need cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior and expansion of even its capacities. These are not only our capacities, but also their capacities. Cooperation between the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Industry. That's where we're communicating with the employers that make the deal. So it's not just a matter of the State Department. And to create a similar project for Vietnam - I say some things we are planning there, but going this way is not easy, because the costs would probably be much higher than the costs we have today in Ukraine, where we are trying to make the system more transparent. And one more reason to suggest why - and I might even be able to say - why it's more complicated is that we also have to consider certain safety risks. And let me tell you that unfortunately there are some factors here that are also causing it to be more complicated, because there are certain risks that we also need to talk about, and which actually limit the fact that we would only make it clear so quickly, because we would also have to guarantee that we are able to manage security aspects. So I know that there is a situation in Vietnam, perhaps I can say, a little more difficult than in Ukraine. But I understand. Over.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u171	[[He's laughing.]] Right. Ambassador, I'd like to ask you a follow-up question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u172	Thank you so much for your answer, and basically my follow-up question was supposed to be the way you were talking about it at the end. Whether it would not be possible in Vietnam to use the pilot programme or project that you have worked towards Ukraine. But you basically answered that question for the most part. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u173	Thank you, too. So let's keep talking. Another, in the 13th order, was drawn by Mr Karel Šidlo, who interpels the Minister of Transport. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u174	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, I am addressing you with a problem concerning the Road Traffic Act No. 361/2000 Sb. In particular, it concerns compliance with Article 25 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union with Article 25 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2 when drivers of trucks and buses cannot and are forced to break this law in this particular section. They break it every time they want to fold or load cargo for shops and restaurants or let passengers get off or board at hotels. They have nowhere to stop, and the only option for them is to stand in the second row of vehicles. Unfortunately, this problem concerns not only Prague, but also other regional cities, former district towns and some municipalities. Since the exception from the law does not apply to all professional drivers in the supply and transport of persons, why should the profession of taxi driver be preferred to others when de facto it is a similar activity and at the same time the applicable provisions of the law cannot be regarded as an open discrimination against listed or mentioned drivers? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u175	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u176	Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members, Mr Šidla, through Mr President, a special amendment to Act No. 361/2000 Sb. in § 25, respectively. in the area of parking vehicles, is not going to happen at the moment. However, an expert group consisting of representatives of the Ministry of Transport, Police and BESIP was established at the Ministry of Transport, whose aim is a comprehensive revision of Act No. 361/2000 Sb. and simplifying it and declaring it. The discussion of the area of administrative punishment, offences, points, etc. has now been completed. and now the group will start discussing the revision of the operating rules, among others. the areas mentioned. [[17.20 hours]] The limitation of stoppages in the second row to taxi cars and not to vans of supply is based on the fact that the taxi service vehicle is generally of smaller dimensions than the vehicles of supply and the period of stop is also shorter. Entry and exit of passengers vs. loading and unloading of goods. This is what the Bureau wrote to me. I promise you, we'll look into it, we'll discuss the matter. We do not want to base this on discrimination against certain types of drivers, and we would like to bring this into line. Anyway, I'm assuming that this exception for taxi drivers got there in the form of an amendment, so we're going to try something complex to solve the matter, and I'll keep you informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u177	Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u178	Thank you for your answer. I don't know how it got into the law. But you feel alone, and from your answer, it turns out that you see this as a major problem. I understand that vehicles supply are usually bigger and buses, which I am not talking about at the moment. But it's true that it can be solved by a minor modification in the law, because it's a stop-of-vehicle, that is, for the necessary boarding, performance, quick loading, quick unloading, and it can be limited in time so that it doesn't exceed a certain time, so that we don't say that if it's a big vehicle, it's gonna take a long time. I'm glad you'll be able to do that. If the working group offers some serious solution, I would only ask that it be in real time, because my question and the reminder of the law, when these drivers are taking risks today, because they often deliver directly, so they can't leave the car open, they can't move away from the vehicle, either they rob their goods or they rob their cash. It's a very problematic matter. And I think we should help them do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u179	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u180	Just for a very short time. I'll try to look into it so that it can be resolved as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u181	Thank you, too. Interpelations 14 and 15 of their submitters have been withdrawn. We will now go to the interview with order number 16, which Mr Antonín Seďa has on the Minister of Defence. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u182	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear absent minister, for a long time we have been working together to increase the budget of Chapter 307 of the Ministry of Defence, especially in connection with the solution of insufficient number of professional soldiers and due to obsolete techniques, equipment and equipment. And even though the DOD gives less money to reward, there's an exception. This is your advisor, Zuzana Lieblová, who has a monthly reward exceeding the salary of the deputy or chief of staff. Last year alone, it was said that it cost almost CZK 1.3 million. According to information from the media, the consultant solves the simplification of organizational structure and process optimization. Minister, I understand she's capable of paying the managers. But even that should have its limits, regardless of the comparison of wages with the rank soldiers or commanders of combat troops. That is why I want to ask two specific questions. What exactly did your counselor do last year, which means what particular work did she do for the Department of Defence? And do you really think that such a high reward corresponds to the Ministry's options, and isn't it rather demotivating to other members and employees of the resort? Thank you for your answers. [[The speaker looked around and saw the incoming minister.]] And I apologize to the Minister because he just arrived.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u183	Thank you. Anyway, the Minister is going to answer you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u184	Thank you, Mr President. I'm sorry, it kind of went faster in time than I thought. But I'm here in the foyer. The engineer was approached after a certain time, now I won't say the number of months after my colleagues and I joined the Ministry of Defence. 94 (?) when we found out how various decision-making and procedural mechanisms were set up there, and we had very mixed feelings about it, we tried to deal with it somehow with our own efforts for several months. But the Ministry is famous for its complexity, let's say, even on the personnel level. So it seemed like a good solution to take on this particular job, to sort of clean up and re-set those procedures, an externist, which was the idea of the deputy at the time, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter anymore. And we reached for someone who did not only appear to us, but also proved to be an expert with many years of experience in organization and management, increasing the performance of corporate functions and restructuring organisations. This lady joined the Ministry at the end of 2014 and was entrusted with the development of an optimization programme for the operation of the resort as a whole, which is a long-term work with the scope of the resort. The programme includes the implementation of extensive external audit outputs, focusing on the performance of key internal agendas and taking into account the planning and implementation of strategic projects. And now we're in a situation where the work is coming to a close. I assume the engineer will end up working with us at the end of this year. She worked in a transnational environment. He's an extremely experienced man. She worked in the environment of the audit and consultancy firm KPMG. She graduated from the Worcester Institute of Technology and ČVUT Prague. He was at the time as he was in similar situations, and anyone who only knows a little bit about running from the government, as such people are offered for a table salary, is not only difficult but practically impossible. So we agreed on a compromise. She wasn't and she wasn't honored the way she was in that position before, where she worked, but she was willing to just work for that particular time for us under conditions that are slightly above standard for the state administration. But I don't think they're against good manners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u185	Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u186	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I'm not questioning Ms. Lieblo's professional Lieblová. And I agree that there is a complex mechanism in the Ministry of Defence, whether decision-making or even those activities that intersect each other, and even the responsible person who is responsible for the particular activity is often sought. I wanted to ask if there would be a better personnel or process audit within the entire Ministry of Defence. And I would like to ask what will be the concrete output of the engineer's work in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u187	Thank you. Minister, I'm going to ask you for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u188	The particular output that he has already discussed in his pre-final phase at the Chamber Hrádek actually team of deputy and chief of staff with the engineer, and I have to get the result within about ten days, so that we actually untie the working union at the end of the year, virtually. I'm done. This is mainly an acquisition process, which is actually the main component. What we're trying to do is make all the individual steps there as rational as possible, and so on. I don't want to worry about that right now. But that was the gros. We did not discuss the operation of ordinary paper, so to speak, or the number of the case, but it was really interdisciplinary, or what to call it, where there are so many subjects where, Mr President, alone, there are things that need to be changed. So I firmly believe that I have some news so far that it should contribute to this. So it's going to be a project, let's say, that's going to be focused primarily on acquisitions. I would just like to point out that the engineer was roughly - roughly - honored at the level of the Deputy Minister, and I would like to point out in this context that, as the Ministry is large, I do not have any overhang of the number of Deputys and I have two political deputys systemized and neither of these seats is occupied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u189	Thank you. The next is Mrs Věra Kovářová, who withdrew her intervention. I will now ask Mr. Jiří Zlatuška, who will interpel Mr. Vice Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u190	Mr President, Mr Vice Prime Minister, I am intersecting the information system for research and development again. You replied in writing that the component of data entry into this system was not part of the system, but apparently it was switched off the same day as the rest of the system, as well as the CEZ component with data from 1999 to 2003, which is also missing. And just as today is poor data export from RIV, before there were more than 70 data, today only 19. But the big problem is the slow functioning of the system. The system is more than 60 times slower than the original. Simple last name test The Procházka gives an answer whose search takes more than a minute, 67 seconds, before it was under a second. It's not accurate. The search condition for seven years in the gulag gave a value of the number of occurrence one, but there were two in the listing. So it doesn't even give the relevant data. What are you going to do with this, and who will be responsible for this? I know the system received special awards from Deloitte in eGovernment. Deloitte is your former deputy's former employer. The award was ordered by the Office of the Government? If so, how much did the government pay for it? Or it was an initiative by a firm or a firm with its former employee, which, in my opinion, would disqualify it as any company with expert value for any serious use.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u191	Thank you. I'll ask the Vice Prime Minister to answer your question. Please, Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u192	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to reply to my colleague that oral questioning basically follows up on your written one, which was two to which you will receive an answer, so I apologize if I repeat myself in some matters. I appreciate that in connection with the information system, you are not talking about lawlessness, illegality, or coma, but about slowness. We meet with it sometimes. It's not always like you say in those times. I guess it depends on the conditions. However, the application response rate is not only affected by the selected database system. The scope of the functions used is fully comparable to the Oracle database server. The burden borne by the information system is already from the previous system, because it is mainly a complicated data model and a non-maintained database. However, in order to maintain compatibility with the downstream systems, this area has been left unchanged. Of course, we would like to transform it, but that would put the follow-up systems in a difficult situation. A greater redesign of the database is planned in the medium term, inter alia, following the implementation of the CERIF standard. The costs that the Office of the Government would have to incur for the acquisition of the Oracle licence and then annually for the payment of its maintenance are not justified by the possible partial acceleration of some operations, which are not guaranteed in connection with the change of the database. As regards the fact that the data input system was an earlier deposit, it is not necessary to form part of the R&D&I information system. I must once again state that Law No. 130/2002 Sb. Paragraph 30 provides that, firstly, the information system for research, development and innovation has four interconnected parts, which are central project records, central records of research, development and innovation activities, a register of information on results and records of public competitions in research, development and innovation. From that definition, it is clear that no other external application for data input is a legal part of the information system. In the law described modules of the R&D&I system 2.0 contain, including interfaces for online insertion, information and management. Anyway, this idea is now being resolved by being from 19. 11. they have run quite clearly beyond the law of the obligations arising from the law, the application of the VaV editing interface Waver, this is an application for preparation of batch processing of information for the CEP system. For RIV there is a final testing of the functionality of this application. It should be fully operational and accessible by next week. Finally, as I will show you in my written reply, let me inform you that our efforts to obtain technical and legal independence have been honoured by a special award in the competition of eGovernment the best 2016 - Deloitte, which was taken over by the Deputy Minister of Interior for State Service, Director for the Management of the Science, Research and Innovation Section. So it's not an order. I fundamentally reject this and categorically oppose the fact that the Deputy Minister of Civil Service is some sort of figure that would be used for some special-purpose awards. That is, of course, nonsense. As far as this is concerned, I could also ask if you would happen to be advised or consulted about your interpelling with people who were previously economically involved in the former system. I don't think that's quite right. Anyway, what are we gonna do about it? We had two major events, where we represented an information system, where different procedures were proposed to us, we were essentially opposed to individual functionality, we were shown individual shortcomings, which sometimes occur. Likewise, we have very good cooperation with a large number of individuals and institutions, which give us specific incentives, which we then deal with. This means, even since this new information system is being modeled on by many others, and many other departments want to be inspired by how we have resolved the situation, so I believe that it is for the appreciation of the work of my collaborators.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u193	Thank you. The Member is about to ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u194	Mr. Vice Prime Minister, my doubts about legality are still ongoing. I just didn't repeat them here. As regards shutting down the data input component, it was switched off at the same time as the rest of the system. How long in advance did you tell the resort, or specifically the Ministry of Education, that you would turn this component off if it was not switched off at the same time as the information system for research and development. This doesn't make sense, and it doesn't make sense from the logic of how information systems are used. If it really was given by Deloitte, which is signed over it, on its initiative, I repeat, it disqualifies it from assessing any information systems. I have no economic or other ties to the original system makers. I think the system was expensive, I think it was wrong to enter, but that doesn't change the way you--
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u195	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. Ask the question if I may ask you, your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u196	I repeat the question I didn't get an answer to because I'm not happy with the answer. At a time when six months of funding solvers don't get millions of dollars, and this is what you think is right and exemplary in the system, so it's absolutely -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u197	Ambassador, I'm sorry, but I'm asking you to respect time as much as your colleagues do. Thank you. Please, Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u198	As far as the information system is concerned, this is not the only one and it is only one part of why the evaluation of previous years has not been completed. This has been delayed far before, even though the old information system worked. The system kept coming online, everyone who wanted to ask anything, so it was possible to do it. And we put the information forward. Until the last moment, we expected that we would finally agree and that the original operator would be more helpful. That didn't happen in the end. So unfortunately, here's what happened. But for us, it is a great opportunity to rebuild the system, have it in its own direction, operate it more efficiently and adjust its structure gradually to make it more comfortable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u199	Thank you. Let's move on, then. I will now ask Mr Martin Novotný to intervene on the Vice Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. He is not present, well, in that case another interview is given by Mr Stanislav Grospič to the Minister of Transport. He's present. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u200	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to enter into today's discussion with an interview concerning the reconstruction of the ongoing railway line 071, i.e. Nymburk - Mladá Boleslav, which has been competitive and is taking place this year and should take place in the next stage and next year. In this context, I would like to ask whether the alternative instead of the capacity of this line has been considered by means of a double-tracking of this line. Why the Railway Infrastructure Administration did not take into account the possible option of direct connection. Alljanian connections, that means turning and direct connection to the track from Milovice. Above all, my question is what stage the reconstruction of the main railway station in Mladá Boleslav is expected to take place.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u201	Thank you. Minister, if I may ask you to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u202	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, on line 071 this year we completed the construction of capacity increases on the line Nymburk - Mladá Boleslav, the first construction. We are currently finishing the construction preparation of the capacity increase of the line Nymburk - Mladá Boleslav, the second construction which deals with the section Veleliby /out/ - Legions /outside/. The construction includes the implementation of the switchboard Straka and the extension of the railway tracks in the railway station Čachovice to 650 metres, connected with the modification of platforms and the connection of the section to the remote control carried out in the first construction. The assumption of realization is the tenth month of 2017 to the twelfth month of 2018. The estimated price is 520 miles. Crowns. Currently a feasibility study in Prague - Liberec, hereinafter referred to as SP, has a major impact on the concept of solving the whole railway junction in Mladá Boleslav including the main railway station. This study is expected to be completed at the earliest by the end of 2017. Project preparation of the reconstruction of the main railway station in Mladá Boleslav will be possible only after approval of the study Prague - Liberec. About your question, why didn't it connect to the all-jan link? Several studies have been carried out for this, and I personally know at least four, and experts say there are more. In every study, unfortunately, in terms of economic appreciation, they simply do not come out of intensity to do both double-tracking and linking to the alljanian clutch. We deal with this issue, of course it has to do with the modernisation of other lines. I firmly hope that after the study Prague - Liberec we will know more and proceed to some conceptual solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u203	Thank you. I wonder if you would like to ask an additional question, Mr. Ambassador. It's not like that, thank you. Interpelation under number 21 Mr. Michal Kučera withdrew. It is also Mrs Markéta Adamová, who I do not see in the hall either. Mr Jiří Valenta - also absent, then Mr Pavel Plzák - is also absent. Mr Jiří Koubek - he is not present either. But I see Mr. Jan zahradník. Before I give him my word, I am merely stating that those who were not in the O.R. have fallen into their interpelations because, at the time of the interpellation, the Member must be present in the O.R. Please, Mr. Ambassador. I've seen the Minister of Foreign Affairs around here somewhere, I assume he'll come to your interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u204	However, I am addressing Minister Ťok with an interview on the issue of binding EIA opinions on the nine buildings that have already been approved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u205	You're right. Please, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u206	The Minister just gave me a paper detailing the state of extradition, for which I thank him, and therefore it is no use for the interpelation to continue. Thank you, Minister, for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u207	Thank you. Now the interpelations have really gone off the rails, to say the least. I will ask Mrs Marta Semelová with an interview with the Minister of Youth, Education and Sports. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u208	Thank you. Madam Secretary, as of 1 September, the amendment to the School Act, which was introduced so-called "School Act," entered into force. inclusion, there is amass of legitimate criticism that comes from parents, schools and consulting facilities. In connection with inclusion, nine expert associations in education issued a joint declaration, which clearly shows that the declared support for teachers in the implementation of the so-called "statutory support'. joint education by the Ministry of Education can be considered merely a declaration. What exactly is this about? A complex and inconspicuous administrative activity has increased disproportionately to the normal primary schools. Furthermore, the current congestion of the advisory system prevents the provision of professional assistance to primary schools within the meaning of a qualified recommendation, which specific support measures to choose, since none of them can replace the training taught by a special teacher. For further, an extreme increase in administrative work in connection with the development of recommendations for support measures increases time disproportionately and exceeds the current real capacity of schools and school advisory facilities. For another, the school prepares a teaching support plan without entitlement to financial support, both for teachers and pupils. Further, material support under the support measures is not yet available. This is far from a list of all problems. I could name complications that are caused by the fact that the SPC cannot be for pupils with special behavioral disorders. The problems are with the single-species classes, and I could go on. Madam Secretary, do you perceive these voices of experts who are dealing with the issue today and daily and who have warned in advance that there will be problems? How do you intend to respond to that?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u209	Thank you, and I'll ask the Minister to answer your question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u210	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the situation in educational counselling, we are very closely monitoring this situation. We also do not sleep on laurels and, on the contrary, from the very beginning, we are towards educational counselling - because these really are the key to the whole system, the key to the whole effective support of parents and children, whatever specific educational needs they have - so we aim towards them the main strength of support. Since 1 September, there has been an increase in staff in educational advisory facilities, as well as an increase in funding from the point of view of individual aid. It is precisely in the context of the situation within school advisory facilities that we ourselves, without any statement, have increased the capacity of school advisory facilities by dozens of additional staff since 1 January. We are also prepared and have the funds to continue to strengthen the workforce. I must say that the statement, which was mentioned by the Member, did not make me very happy, not because there were no problems or more work in connection with the launch of various changes since 1 September, but rather because we communicate with a large part of these professional associations, they are part of our expert teams, and therefore many of them know that we are obviously dealing with the situation. [[17.50 hours]] I would just like to say, when I talked to my colleagues about this situation, I also called the association for a meeting with me personally before Christmas, with the Minister, and especially at one table, so many of these associations questioned the statement. Some said that they had not signed them or questioned the part of the statement that was included in this joint statement. I don't think it's a fair approach. And I want to say that school counseling facilities have been underfunded and abandoned by everyone, including their founders, for many years and many of the problems attributed to the amendment to the school law are problems that have long been there. But I don't want to complain or beg anymore, on the contrary, I listen to school counseling facilities. I care that colleagues have better conditions, including, for example, the fact that I consider the inclusion of these colleagues in pay grades to be a long-term violation of the law. And I am also taking steps in this direction to ensure that this funding is sufficient and levelled. I would also like to say that as far as material conditions are concerned, I reiterate that there is sufficient funding for both support for schools and support for educational counselling facilities. I would also like to mention the problems with electronic access and the use of forms, because these forms, on the contrary, had assistance for colleagues and colleagues in educational counselling facilities. Yes, there were really problems at the start of this system when the forms were filled in and the systems didn't work fast enough. This has been removed at this time and I note that it has been removed within two months. The forms are fully operational. The reports we have from the territory show that this is not a problem of software or forms, but rather an outdated hardware in some school counselling facilities. I believe here that you will understand that this is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. But once again, I stress that we communicate with colleagues from school counseling facilities. We're dealing with what he's leading us to do to improve. And I really reject the content of this declaration to the resort and to the changes from 1 September. I do not really consider them correct in this regard, and I will speak to my colleagues personally in this spirit, because I do not think that we would be particularly helpful to children by demonizing things rather than finally starting to solve problems. And I want to solve them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u211	Thank you. The honourable Member will ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u212	Thank you for your answer. However, I must say, this is not just about consulting facilities. It's about schools. I think it is a pity that there was no will to adopt our bill to make so-called. joint education has been postponed by two years and is really to be prepared. To check things out. It may come to the conclusion that this really is not the best step to be. At least when I talk to teachers and directors, where there are some children with mental disabilities, there are problems. Teachers don't know how to handle it. My parents are complaining. They want the kids checked out. There's just big problems here. On the contrary, the child is being discriminated against and bullied many times. He's worse off in community education. It is more reserved than when it was at a special school or primary school that had this program.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u213	Thank you. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u214	I would just like to say that, indeed, since 1 September, there has been no significant transfer of children from existing special schools or special classes into the current current. To put it simply, we have children where we had them on June 30th, except for the first graders. We didn't cancel any special schools, we don't cancel, we don't have an interest in dealing. And the choice of a parent to send a child with a mild mental disability to a regular school or sooner to a so-called. schools of practical or now special schools pursuant to § 16 para. 9, she's always paid, and she's still paying. The difference from September 1st is only that, while before it was all the same and everyone was drowning like mice, parents, children and teachers, without any support, we now gradually increase support in mainstream schools so that when such a situation happens, so that parents, children and teachers are not alone and are not without financial support or that, regardless of the fact that a primary school is not practical in the vicinity of the family, because we do not have such capacity in the whole territory of the Republic and I choose in a small village for example. small class, so that the small class does not receive a tenth of the funds to cope with the situation of specific needs of such a child as 50 kilometers away until then called. the practical school. Please believe that's what this was all about. Fair terms, open doors to our schools. And if, through Mr President, the Member has specific knowledge of problems, there is not enough support, really, through Mr President, I ask her to pass on these situations to me, and we will address them immediately in order to find adequate support for all. [[Attention on time.]] I would like to say that the administration in our schools is rising and we are definitely not sleeping on laurels and we want to present a plan to reduce red tape in schools by March next year at the latest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u215	Thank you. And the last interpellation of today will be Mr. Karel Šidlo. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u216	Thank you for the floor. I promise to be fast enough within my time, because I have an appointment with the minister who has left, and I demand a written answer to the questions I will ask. Dear Minister, allow me to ask you for an opinion on the very serious problem raised by the company České dráhy, a. s., which I drew attention to in the meeting of the Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies a few days ago. In the absence of an immediate solution, the existence of a national railway carrier is directly threatened due to its exclusion from competition in the public transport market. Day 1. 10. The new Public Procurement Act No 2016 came into force. 134/2016 Sb. and, at the same time, the Act on public passenger transport services was amended, Act No. 135/2016 Coll. According to those laws, a public service provider, both the region and the state, has a new obligation to exclude from the tender procedure a selected carrier who does not have book shares. The Czech Railways have shares in paper form from the Czech Railways Act and their book-keeping is hindered by the Czech Railways Act. Booking is against the law, and these shares would be nullified. Now, three questions. Why did this situation take place? From the position of the founder of the Czech Railways you had sufficient time to adjust the conditions for the national carrier. Why didn't you? And the last one. What will you do specifically to preserve the national carrier and comply with the memorandum with the regional rail transport regions? Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-12-01-ps2013-053-03-010-257.u217	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Even for keeping up with the time limit. And I am of the opinion that for today's meeting, we have closed the oral intercession hearing. Thank you, I wish you a pleasant rest of the day and I interrupt the meeting until tomorrow morning at nine o'clock.
