ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u1	262. Oral inhalation Oral interpelations are intended for the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, the Government of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifiers, we have drawn a ranking of Members, in which they will speak and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka or the Government of the Czech Republic, from 14:30 to 16:00, to other members of the government from 16:00 to 18:00. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. Before I give my word to the first drawn lady, in this case, allow me to load my apologies. For today's meeting, Minister Jurečka apologizes from 14:00 to 18:00 for reasons of work, Mr Petr Fiala apologises for today's meeting from 15:40 to 17:00 for reasons of work, Mrs Helena Válková apologizes for this afternoon's meeting for health reasons, Mrs Balaštíková apologises for today's meeting from 17:00 to the end of the day without giving any reason, Mr Dan Ťok is sorry for today's meeting from 17.20 pm and the Minister of the Environment apologies for the afternoon hearing from 15.30 to the end of the day of the hearing, for reasons of work. And now I give the floor to Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová, who was drawn in the first place to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Bohuslav Sobotka. Mr. Josef Nekl will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Let me give you an interview. Dear Prime Minister, I am interrogating you on the issue of inadaptable citizens in the Ústí Region. It is a very well-known situation and for you, Prime Minister, of course, that in the Ústí Region, especially in the districts Most, Chomutov, Ústí nad Labem and Děčín, this issue escalates. The region and already mentioned districts are constantly facing the arrival of inadaptable citizens from all over the Czech Republic, especially from the Central Bohemia Region. However, it is no exception that citizens from European Union Member States such as the Slovak Republic are also moving in with us. The return of our citizens from Great Britain is also the reality of everyday life. The problems that this concentration of inadaptable citizens brings in one region may not be to remind you, but given the current approach to legislative changes and instruments that have been adopted, I must. Increasing crime, increasing noise, poor hygiene conditions, disturbing public order, intolerance, keeping the night calm, defining itself against another group and, above all, zero working habits. The municipalities and cities have no tools to prevent the new influx of these citizens. Petitions, complaints and petitions are constantly pouring over the management of municipalities and cities, asking for a crucial step so that the situation of properly living citizens does not reach the limits of decent coexistence with citizens. Both municipalities and cities issue decrees after decrees, trying to do their best, but the essential legislative instruments are not and unfortunately they are not yet coming. Dear Prime Minister, our region and its regions are not a waste dump, as many media call us. We have a beautiful region, full of beautiful nature, an industry with long-term tradition and smart and capable citizens. So my question is: how do you want to help avoid further escalation of this issue, and what legislative steps would you encourage that cities and municipalities or regions have the tools to make a fundamental change in this situation? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u3	Thank you. I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u4	Thank you. Have a good afternoon, honourable Members. Let me just start at the beginning, because I noticed that in the morning there was a discussion that concerned the apologized absence of some members of the government at the afternoon meeting, I would just like to say that together with several other members of the government I attended the financial conference of the Union of Cities and Communities, which is held regularly every year, and unfortunately we were invited to the conference with other members of the government just this morning. We started at half past ten, and that was why I apologized this morning at the Chamber of Deputies meeting and why several other members of the government also apologized, who attended this financial conference of the Union of Cities and Municipalities. I would like to thank the lady for opening this subject, because it is a matter which, I must say, is a problem not only for the Ústí Region. I would like to assure both the Member and the citizens of the Ústí Region that it is certainly not the government's intention to ignore this and to ignore it in any way. I will immediately get to what can be done or what we are already trying to do. I'm gonna talk about the Agency for Social Inclusion, but I'd like to mention the main problem I'm seeing today. One of the strong motives for the internal migration of low-income people within the Czech Republic is the possibility of finding cheap housing. This is actually what real estate speculators are focusing on today. They buy cheap apartments in less attractive parts of the Republic, which are strongly related to some regions of Ustecka, they rent apartments for overvalued rent to low-income people and residents of apartments, tenants, receive housing benefits, surcharges and housing allowance from the offices of work, pass it on to the owner of the apartment, which consumes the whole apartment and does not pay any contributions from it relating to payments for example to the fund of repairs or payments for services. There is a debt in such apartments within this special business model, which then burdens the whole house, meaning, burdens the entire community of owners of units or burdens the cooperative. Apart from the debts that are here, there are other problems. We have a problem with the occurrence of annoying insects, rodents, smells and molds. Overpopulation of flats and their non-compliant technical and hygienic condition. There is, as I have already mentioned, overvalued rents that do not reflect local customs and, of course, there is deliberate neglect of housing maintenance on the part of owners. Basically, the owners let the apartments settle. The Agency for Social Inclusion, the relevant section at the Office of the Government, has prepared material for the government meeting, which is based precisely on these problems that I have mentioned and which have been identified by municipalities, housing associations and members of unit owners, but also by non-state non-profit organisations. The government discussed this material in July this year, we agreed and approved tasks for the relevant ministries, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior to present concrete proposals for solving these things that I have now described here and which, of course, make people dramatically miserable. It's about getting things done. I would like to inform you that today, an inter-ministerial group is acting at the Office of the Government, which summarizes the resulting solution to the ministerial proposals, that is, on the basis of this material, concrete proposals for changes are being prepared and we agree that by the end of November, the government will get information on how to proceed. Similar material was also submitted by the Ministry of Labour, which focused on the provision of housing benefits. Currently, the Agency for Social Inclusion, the MPSV is advancing in cooperation with the ministries that I have listed here, and is trying to propose specific procedures. If there are changes to the laws, we will try to prepare proposals in the rest of the parliamentary term. We may not be able to push them through Parliament, but at least here they will be available for the next government. I wanted to mention, in a time limited, at least the problem that concerns housing, which, I think, is very urgent. Otherwise, I want to recall the fact - the point is that we have a chance to use the funds to improve the situation in those areas that are most problematic in the Ústí Region. It's a so-called coordinated approach. In the Ústí Region they are the locations of the first to fourth wave. These are Dubí, Kadaň, Obrnice, Roudnice, Štětí, Litvínov, Klášterec nad Ohří, Vejprty, Děčín, Chomutov, Most, Postoloprty and Varnsdorf. This means that socially excluded localities in these cities will be involved in a coordinated approach and we will try to use European money to improve the situation there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u5	Thank you. The honourable Member wants to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u6	Thank you again for the floor. I must say that the Prime Minister here has actually said a lot of things and said the reasons, or the impact it has. I would perhaps just say within the framework of the Agency for Social Inclusion. You know, the city of Most started working with her, and you know how it turned out. Let me make this brief. In fact, the conclusion is that the problems are caused by the citizens themselves in those houses and that there is probably nothing to improve. I'd just say that towards the Agency for Social Inclusion. The low prices of flats. We know that, of course. That's just the problem. People are leaving us, we have a sold-out housing fund, so it's all got to do with it. I also see a problem here, of course, in a full dose of material distress. Unfortunately, when I appealed to Secretary Marksová not to just deal with the dormitory fee, I was told that the fee for standard accommodation was not in the schedule of the day. I guess that's what I'd say. And I'm worried about how you outlined the steps here that there is a very short time for this by the end of the parliamentary term, and those legislative steps will not be able to be taken.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u7	I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u8	You know, I think the most important thing is that municipalities and cities don't stay on their own, so that they don't stay on their own or the committees of the owners' communities. That is why I mentioned here at the end of my previous reply the coordinated approach that should be chosen here. The point is that there is cooperation between all those who are interested in improving the situation in the individual locations. I also want to say that in operational programmes where we have money from the European Union, whether it is the Employment Operational Programme or the Operational Programme which the Ministry of Education has, the resources from which it is possible to cover activities in these socially excluded localities are earmarked. The first challenges are already being written. For example, in the case of the Employment Operational Programme, a call of 26 amounting to 579 million was announced. CZK and challenge 42 with allocation 724 miles. Crowns. What I think is important is that the government dealt with it. We have approved a strategy to combat social exclusion between 2016 and 2020, which was a condition precisely for us to use European funds. And I just want to say that this strategy really focuses on a wide range of things. This means health, employment, education, but also debt, housing, security and conceptual solutions to social exclusion and analytical activity. As I mentioned here, there are simply locations with which the Agency is working today. It is a total of 41 locations in the Ústí Region, which, in my view, creates good prerequisites for improving the situation in these locations. However, I just want to remind you that these programs themselves won't save it. I am convinced that we need to achieve legislative changes in precisely those areas that I have mentioned which make the situation difficult for people in the area of housing. In my opinion, there is no way to do it without changing the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u9	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Nekl's microphone, Mr Valenta will be ready. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u10	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Mr President of the Government, I am implementing my mandate in the Olomouc Region, in a region that is affected by considerable unemployment and lower average wages than in the whole Republic. That is why I am amazed that even if there are ways to deal with the situation in part, it will always be the same. I am returning to the problem of using the Přerovský airport for the development of the whole area. In May 2015, you declared publicly in Přerov that there would be the largest industrial zone. According to my information, the solution was not unrealistic, it was dealt with by an important investor. In the meantime, however, the government adopted a resolution on the maintenance of the airport due to the Ministry of Defence lobbying, which, by the way, wrote down and liquidated this strategic airport. That's why I have a few questions. It is true, Prime Minister, that the failure of negotiations with the investor Land Rover was due to the statement by the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok that he was unable to guarantee the completion of the 11 km motorway on the Říkovice-Přerov route and thus lost the Czech Republic an investment of about 42 billion. CZK with potential of up to 7,000. jobs with the possibility of using the unfulfilled zone in Holešov? The race is already being built according to my information, or even standing in Slovakia. Isn't that why you're personally responsible for measuring a significant investment? Government resolution has become a developer for this space Air Repair Malešice. Isn't that against the law - state enterprise and developer? And the third question. When will there be settlement of land adjustments in consolidation, which due to the blocking of the citizen have not been completed since 2004 and threaten to stop the preparation of the industrial zone? It's 2.3 miles. CZK and the government are unable to decide on the special-purpose allocation of funds for the city of Přerov. At the same time, the Army Service, a contribution organization, has the resources to buy out land and prepare the zone. Thank you for your specific answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u11	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u12	Thank you. Madam, honourable Members, I must say that when I had the opportunity to visit the zone, in principle in the first part of our government's mandate, I must say that it did not look like a potential zone at all. There were still a number of objects that remained there after the military airport, and when the interest of a large foreign investor appeared, our government was at all the first government to take real action. The Member certainly knows, perhaps you others, colleagues, that our government has adopted several resolutions by which it has launched the process of preparing the territory so that an industrial zone can be established there in the future. The funds have been earmarked. The army of the Czech Republic began preparing the territory. This means that the objects that were left behind after the airport were destroyed, and of course the works continued intensively. We decided that the work on the preparation of the industrial zone will continue at the moment when it turned out that Slovakia won the particular large investment in the international competition between the Czech Republic, Poland and Slovakia. I'll tell you why Slovakia won. I'm not going to come back now, why we didn't win, but why Slovakia won. It was able to offer land to which the highway led. We have not been able to offer such a large plot of land to which the highway leads. This was a comparative advantage that the Slovak Government could count on and which was probably one of those who decided to succeed in the competition for this investment. But what I said is true. We're continuing to prepare the industrial zone. We have also accelerated the preparation of the construction of the last section of D1. You know for a fact that the preparation of land purchases has accelerated in recent months. That the preparation of regional planning documentation has accelerated. It's one of the government's priorities. You probably also know that this is among the exceptions that have been agreed with Brusel that there will be no need to make a new EIA. That means it's about D1 in this section around Přerov. And as I had the opportunity to see the plans, it's supposed to be connected to the industrial zone. This means that the remaining section of D1 is prepared so that the industrial zone can be connected. Whether the airport is there or not, I think there's a special question. I also understood during visits to this region that the town of Přerov and in the last period the Olomouc Region did not support the idea of maintaining the airport area that was left behind after the military airport. However, the Ministry of Defence insisted on this and put a whole series of arguments into the government as to why the area should not be destroyed there right now. That means the government took the defense department's assets into account and didn't decide to dispose of the airport area. This means that the airport area will remain there, but large plots of land around it will continue to be prepared, and these are tens, probably hundreds - it is more than 100 hectares available in the area of the industrial zone. So I believe that by this procedure we will achieve that, first of all, the motorway is completed, the motorway connection of this new industrial zone has been ensured. Secondly, the airport will not be cancelled there. But in the future, if there were to happen to be a big strategic investor, the government could, of course, reconsider the decision at any time. I think it's better that we didn't invest in the destruction of the concrete area, the area was preserved there, and in the future there's open space for the government to eventually use the land. In any case, the surrounding land will be wired. [[14.50 hours]] And just so that the investment, the networking could be realized, I called a meeting, namely on 25 August this year, to the government office where the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Industry, was present and we discussed how to proceed from the point of view of the preparation of the strategic industrial zone Přerov-Bozhor. We agreed that the government would be presented with material indicating who the investor of the industrial zone would be. And that's my last point. The government is ready to grant subsidies to invest those land in the industrial zone, but at this point, it has to decide who will be the investor. If the investor is the city of Přerov, or if it is the Olomouc Region, or if the investor is the Ministry of Defence, because we have some conditions for providing subsidies and it has to be clear who will be the investor for the public sector. So at this point, I expect the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Industry to complete the negotiations and, if possible, submit material to the government by the end of the year, where we will return to the pre-rovic industrial zone and deal with the decision about who the investor will be. And then it will be possible to start preparing investments so that the industrial zone can be networked. I want to assure you that the government is paying attention to this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u13	Thank you. Ambassador, would you like to ask an additional question? That's right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u14	Thank you, Prime Minister. The answer was quite exhausting. This led me to believe that the consolidation of the land and the purchase will also be carried out when the famous investor of this entire area is, first of all. Two. Of course, I could ask if there are other people interested in the space that will be there, about 100 acres. But there is a government resolution that the highway is to be completed by 2019. It is true that the stage of Přerov - Lipník nad Bečvou has accelerated, but the stage of Říkovice - Přerov stands and, unfortunately, there has not even been an archaeological survey launched yet, although the purchases run and so on, and we do not need an EIA or a building permit, and this can delay a lot. And the last one. It was assumed that the demolished hives, which means the buildings that were there, would be used as building materials for example on the basement of the highway, but it turns out that Skanska wasn't interested in it, that the demolishment cost a lot of money, some million. Unfortunately, the guy who liquidated it didn't sort it out, and Skanska's not interested in the material. So is the wasted money. It's just an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u15	I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u16	Yes, thank you. I'm sorry, I won't respond to the detail of the demolition. It was directed by the Ministry of Defense and the relevant state-owned enterprise that dealt with the matter. I just want to make it clear that the situation in terms of investors is as follows. A smaller industrial zone is planned in the southern part of the site, which will be intended especially for airlines in the aviation industry, so that there is synergies with the airport area. There they informed the representatives of the Ministry of Defence that they were continuing to deal with potential candidates. And then there's the northern part where, in several stages, I think it's three stages, it's supposed to develop an industrial zone of up to 280 hectares. This means, in relation to the three stages, as they will be implemented, the issues of ownership of the land will also be resolved, because it is not yet fully settled there. Here I agree with what has been said. But there will be a space of up to 280 hectares, which fills the parameters of the strategic industrial zone, and it should be available in my opinion if a large strategic investor has shown interest in the Czech Republic in the future. It is also true that 2019 is the term we are going to with regard to the D1 section. And, of course, at this point, we don't have a building permit, so construction couldn't be started. But it is the government's goal to use the mandate to prepare the last remaining D1 section as quickly as possible, and if a new investor comes after 2019, 2020, we will be able to document the way the Slovák did at their location that we have a motorway connection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u17	Thank you. And now, please, to Mr. Valenta's microphone. Mr. Černoch will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Prime Minister, could you tell the Czech public and, naturally, also to us, Members and Members, whether there will actually be personnel changes in the government and try to at least partially specify them in this place? We are both certainly aware of the responsibility of your government towards the Chamber of Deputies, and I would therefore like you to consider my question legitimate. But if you want to keep straining citizens, maybe until December 10th, until the media says you want to make a decision, will such changes still make sense? Or will it even be nonsense, as not only does Prime Minister Babiš mean? After all, it will be only 11 months before the proper elections, and I do not recall the respected term of 100 days of some kind of political defending of the new minister. So can you make it clear from this point when we finally have you here today, which ministerial changes you are considering, or whether you will only discuss posts in social democratic governance or others? Specifically, for example, the chair of the People's Minister of Culture, as he recommends, and, in my opinion, quite rightly, the President of the Republic of Zeman. So, Prime Minister, will you try to change the ministry, whether in the case of socio-democratic or other coalition ministers? Or is your media kind of weirdly implanted, and then their constant accents are just an attempt to calm down the identified post-election situation in social democracy and, in fact, just another fake game with the citizens of this country? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u19	Thank you. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u20	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am meeting with all the members of the government. I suspect that in the next two weeks, these meetings could all be scheduled. What my goal is to talk to all the members of the government about what else needs to be done. The government has 10, 11 months until the end of the mandate. And I want to make it clear what the priorities of the government will be, so that all the members of the government are clear on this. So, first of all, I'm meeting with all the members of the government, and I'm going to talk to them about what I did, and it didn't work out what the government's legislative plan looks like, what we're gonna want to do next year. I also think it is clear to you that things and laws that the government will not send to the Chamber of Deputies by the end of this year in principle have little chance of being approved by the end of the parliamentary term. So what I want to make clear is what the government will focus on and what the priorities of individual ministers are. And, of course, we will also continue to deal with matters related to cooperation between departments. Two. I have made myself clear, and that is to say, I will make changes in the part of the government that has nominated social democracy. I suppose these changes should be made over the horizon of the month. This means, not that I will decide by the beginning of December, but I would like the changes to be made by the beginning of December. And this is also how I will proceed in the direction of presenting a proposal to the President of the Republic, and I want the President of the Republic to be the first to be informed about which members of the Government will be changed and who will replace these members of the Government. As for the members of the government who have been nominated by the People's Party and YES, I respect the coalition agreement here. And the coalition agreement clearly states that changes relating to nominations must be agreed with the relevant political party. I think that was the case in the past when we had coalition governments here, so it was always based on the fact that it was a coalition party that sent its ministers to the government, and it wasn't like anyone was dictating to this coalition party who was supposed to or shouldn't send to that government. So I respect that. However, at the end of these meetings, as I have planned, I want to meet with the Deputy Prime Minister, which means Andrej Babiš and Pavel Bělobrádek. I want to evaluate my talks with them, which I will have individually with the various ministers, and I want to talk about what to do to make the government work well until the end of my mandate. So what's my goal? The goal is to play until the last minute to use the time we have at our disposal. I don't think we need to argue that not everything's been finished yet, not everything's been done. There's a lot of executive character stuff here. If you want an example that's important, it's European funds next year. This is the responsibility of a number of government members across the government, and these are things that are executive. Another example, the preparation of transport structures. After all, this is a matter that troubles us all here, which is often discussed on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies and requires cooperation between several ministries across the political parties. So much for the thing you asked about. My goal is for possible changes to take place within a period of one month, so that all three coalition parties are involved in the discussion. And my goal is for those ministers who are nominated for social democracy to do their job in the government until the very end of the mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u21	Ambassador, would you like to ask an additional question? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u22	Okay, thank you, Prime Minister. If I approach your argument that the coalition agreement is probably superior to your responsibility for the whole government as a whole, then I would like to ask: You are in this open letter to members of your party who have gotten into the media and are constantly busy with the media every day, he wrote that some colleagues are tired and need to be replaced. You've already indicated that you know who you want to replace. Please tell me, who do you want to replace from your social democracy? Or at least who you're thinking about letting him take over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u23	I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u24	I think after three years, I know who works in the government and who doesn't work in the government. I think that's a pretty simple thing to do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u25	Thank you. I'll ask Mr. Černoch to give his interview to the Prime Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u26	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. You, as Prime Minister, have responsibility for your ministers, and I therefore intercede you on the issue of opaque public procurement that is taking place at the Ministry of Transport. I'll start with a public contract to deliver registration plates. According to my information, this contract was repeatedly announced and cancelled by the Ministry of Transport, with the conclusion of an additional contractual relationship without a selection procedure with Hicon each time. This company supplies registration marks, or rather delivered 26 years without coming out of any competition. To date, Hicon has collected approximately CZK 4 billion from the State for deliveries of registration marks. This was done by the Ministry of Transport on the maintenance of an unprecedented condition, when enormous sums of money were paid by the central authority of the state from the Treasury. The next question is the question of Kapsch, when the Ministry of Transport was unable to prepare an open tender procedure for contracting entities and toll system suppliers, even though it was clear from the beginning when this contract was terminated with Kapsch. Thanks to this case, the Ministry of Transport has even received a million-dollar fine from the Office for the Protection of Competition for Illegal Conduct. There are a lot more similar cases at the Ministry of Transport. Since your government is overreacting in speeches about how it fights corruption, I ask: What will you, as Prime Minister, who is responsible for your ministers, do in what way will you remedy this persistent state? How is it possible that Hicon supplied a registration mark 26 years for 4 billion without a tender? What steps will you draw from the fact that the Department of Transport knowingly violated the law that he was fined a million dollars for it? And what steps will you take specifically to ensure that public procurement is really transparent not only at the Ministry of Transport? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u27	Thank you. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u28	This is a really long history, honourable Members. Now I don't know if I should quote you from all of history, how did it actually happen that the company Hikon, s.r.o., got into the Ministry of the Interior and then the Ministry of Transport. But basically, things started sometime in 1994 and later. It means, it's a really long story. That means, there was a contract signed here, and then the contract went, in fact, in the context of the deletion of the authority at all from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Transport. So the Department of Transport has not only reached the competence, but also the agreement with Hikon, on the basis of universal supposition. This contract was subsequently amended several times in the context of legislative changes in the field of registration plates. The last major amendment to the contract occurred in connection with the effectiveness of Law 239 of 2013. So it's a state that lasts for many years. It has been examined repeatedly by the Office for the Protection of Competition. He never came to the conclusion that the contracts were invalid. That means there's been a number of background checks here. Among other things, its first investigation was concluded by the ÚOHS on 10 January 2002 by stating that since Hicon, as the sole producer of registration marks, provided production of unique technology, this company was contacted within the meaning of Section 50 (1) of the basic Regulation. 1 of the relevant law as the only candidate to continue this specialized activity continuously. Otherwise, since 2013, the Ministry of Transport has published three tenders in an open procurement procedure in this area. However, it was forced twice to cancel the procurement procedure for shortcomings in the procurement conditions. In the case of the third tender, tenders submitted were assessed and evaluated on 1 November and the contracting authority subsequently issues a decision on the selection of the most appropriate tender. So, on the question of questioning the procedure, I just want to say that the historic contracts in question were concluded on the basis, in accordance with the legislation in force at the time, which regulated the area of public procurement. In the case - at the time of the conclusion of the first contract in 1994, Hicon was the only producer in the Czech Republic who was able to deliver the tables, and during the delivery of the registration plates, the Ministry of Transport did not fulfil the conceptual features of illegal public support. So only very briefly about the issue of registration marks. When it comes to myth issues. I've responded to this thing several times here at the patronage. The Office for the Protection of Competition in Administrative Procedure initiated on 9 September 2016 in connection with the conclusion of two amendments to the contract for the provision of services related to the operation of the charging system and the contract for the provision of the charging system has decided that the contracting authority, the Ministry of Transport, has committed an administrative offence. For this offense he imposed a fine of CZK 1 million. As regards the scope, i.e. the justification for this decision of the ÚOHS, the Ministry of Transport agrees with the part of it where it is said that the state of exclusivity, which was or is in the area of the provision of toll services, was created in 2005 and 2006, when the two contracts were prepared and the tender procedure for the supply and operation of the existing electronic toll system took place. The Ministry of Transport is aware of the fact that the award of a public contract in an open procedure which does not allow for a range of potential suppliers and allows universal access to the market is, of course, an ideal starting point. And I must say that even with strong support from the Government, the Ministry of Transport has made extreme efforts to ensure that the open procurement procedure for the award of the public contract in question can be carried out. However, even this effort did not lead to the opening of this possibility to carry out such a tender. Therefore, a JŘB-based contract was concluded to ensure the operation of the toll system from 1 January next year. At the same time, the Ministry of Transport is preparing an open tender on the basis of the Government's tasks, which should ensure the operation of the toll system after a maximum of three years - up to a maximum of three years - for which this supplement has been concluded. That means we didn't resign to trying - yes - to enforce an open tender. [[Time warning.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u29	Does the Member wish to ask an additional question? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u30	I will respond to your final answer. So I'm going to ask you, because this is a huge amount in billions of crowns, how you're going to continue to assume responsibility. Because someone has to be responsible for this. And these people need to be clearly identified, who are responsible for this. You, Prime Minister, Prime Minister, are truly responsible for your ministry. How will it be progressed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u31	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u32	Thank you. First of all, I must say that it is up to the Office for the Protection of Competition to make it clear whether the conclusion of the amendment was in accordance with the relevant legislation or not. Respectfully, he made some other decisions about it. It's hard for the government to interfere. So I assume that the whole matter will be definitively assessed by the Office for the Protection of Competition. Moreover, it is precisely because there are billions where there could be a state income loss, the State Transport Fund, so the toll operation in the system is ensured even after 1 January next year, i.e. for a maximum of three years, with an open tender being announced in the meantime. [[15.10 hours]] The government is doing everything in our government's mandate to organise such an open tender so that the Ministry of Transport can declare it. So the aim is not to transfer it to other governments and other governments again, but to ensure that the tender will actually be announced next year so that enough time is available for those three years so that the competition can run, so that it can be passed on if a new operator is competing, and an optimization of the costs associated with the toll system and its operation has actually been achieved on the basis of the open competition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u33	Thank you, and now, please, to the microphone of the next winner, this is Mrs Váhalová, Mr Soukup will prepare himself. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u34	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on a proposal from the Ministry of the Interior, the government approved on 12 October the granting of funds to help Syrian refugees from the Aleppo area fleeing Turkey from armed attacks. Can you please inform us, Prime Minister, specifically about the nature of this aid, the reasons for the provision and the conditions under which it was allocated? How can money be used?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u35	Thank you. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u36	Thank you. honourable Members, Madam Vice-President, I would just like to begin by saying, before I get to the particular gift that we offer to help the people of Aleppo, that the Czech Government considers the humanitarian situation that is very serious in Aleppo. We clearly support all efforts that will lead to either a ceasefire being concluded or an extension of the peace in Aleppo. There are several hundred thousand civilians today who are trapped in the fights that are taking place there between the Syrian government and the opposition, and I consider it very important, and I think it is also worth mentioning that the new US President has been elected, that one of the major challenges that I believe is the solution to the situation in Syria. I consider it crucial for new negotiations to take place between the United States and Russia on how to resolve the situation in Syria definitively. It's not just a problem for those people who are in these devastated cities today, where there are simply fighting, there are children, there are families, there are civilians, who, unfortunately, are the victims of these armed conflicts, but there are also several millions of Syřan who have fled Syria in recent years just before the war. These people are now in nearby countries in camps in Turkey, Jordan, Lebanon, some of them trying to get to Europe and some of them have already gone to Europe. And if we are to solve this big problem, we primarily need an agreement between the United States and Russia. A realistic agreement which, with the support of the European Union, will, with the support of all other actors in the region, provide for a political solution to the conflict in Syria, ensure peace and political agreement between the government and the opposition with which such an agreement can be concluded. Of course, you can't agree with those elements of the Islamic State that are present on Syria's territory, but I think we need to do everything we can to make a deal here. So I believe that the new US president will take advantage of the space and the windows that appear here in terms of American-Russian relations, and that one of the priorities of the new US government will once again sit down with the Russians and try to find, in cooperation with other actors, in cooperation with the European Union, a solution to the situation in Syria. Until then, we have to help. And that we have decided to allocate five million crowns so far - I say so far, because of course it is one of the first contributions we provide. I'm sure we're still ready. But the government approved the use of CZK 5 million from the part we had booked for help in Turkey, so we decided to move the CZK 5 million to help the beneficiaries, i.e. Syrian refugees from the Aleppo area who are currently on the run because of armed attacks in Aleppo. The money will be provided as a gift to an international organisation that will have the ability to provide this assistance in this war region. So that is our decision of the government, which has been made, to allocate these five million crowns. I just want to say that, of course, we are ready to continue to help, even under the MEDEVAC programme. So I have asked the Minister of Health and also the Minister of Foreign Affairs to examine the possibilities we have and the capacity for the MEDEVAC programme next year, and if we could use this program to treat, for example, the injuries to children in the area of this conflict in the Czech Republic, I think it would also be an appropriate form of humanitarian aid that we can provide. So so much for the situation very briefly. It is indeed for a number of people, and it is a humanitarian disaster in that region. And it will not be solved by humanitarian aid, even if it is very needed, we will provide it, but it will be resolved by political negotiations and an agreement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u37	Thank you. The honourable Member wants to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u38	Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. I completely agree that the solution to the humanitarian disaster in Aleppo is also an immediate end to the civil war. I appeal to you to do our utmost to contribute to this. But I would like to ask either now or later, which international organizations are getting this one-off financial assistance of five million, whether it is clear now or whether it will still be decided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u39	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u40	Yes. Unfortunately, I do not have the exact information that the organization will be our partner in implementing this particular aid for CZK five million, or I would probably provide this information to the Member in writing as soon as I get it from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. However, I would like to remind you that we have already provided humanitarian aid directly to Syria in the past, using cooperation with the Czech Red Cross, which has its Syrian partner, i.e. We used e.g. this organization for us to mediate directly humanitarian aid to Syria. We have a functional embassy in Syria as the only country in the European Union, i.e. This also helps to facilitate not only humanitarian aid from the Czech Republic, but also humanitarian aid from other countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u41	Thank you and I now ask Mr Soukup's microphone to present his interview to the Prime Minister, after which Mr Tomio Okamura will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u42	Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will be dealing with a criminal case that has been reported a lot lately, and there has been a lot of talk about it in the media. Personally, I have to say that I consider it more an individual's failure than some kind of systemic failure. However, there are certain connections that need to be asked. Some media reported that Afghánec, who tried to rape a nurse at the Hospital on Bulovka, came to us in some kind of immigration program. This information was also confirmed by the police press secretary. I am being approached by a few people who point out that the government has never informed of such programs, except perhaps by attempting to relocate several Syrian families, once upon a time, from Christian families. I consider it my duty to ask you the most frequent questions from the e-mails I receive, and there are not enough. First of all, can you say something about the immigration program, how many people have we accepted in its framework? Second, are there similar programs?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u43	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u44	As far as the incident is concerned, the question concerned Afghánec, the Afghánec case that was detained by Prague's police in connection with the suspected rape of a nurse in the hospital. According to the information that appeared in the media, he's been charged, waiting in a police cell to see if he'll be in custody. According to the agency, he was to be a man of Afghan origin, rape was to take place in an infectious ward. As to what spokesperson of the District Court for Prague 8 Petr Novák said, it was rape in the sense of groping, de facto it is sexual intercourse, which according to legislation belongs to other sexual acts that do not lead to coitus. Here I quote the spokesperson for the Prague 8 court. In the media, there was information about the attempted rape of a nurse na Bulovka. [[15.20 hours]] The Ministry of Interior has said on this matter that persons, and now I must say in general, persons with this nationality, i.e. Afghánec are not on the list of countries designated for relocation or relocation to the Czech Republic. So no programs that would concern relocations, relocations in connection with the solution to the migration crisis, i.e. the two programmes that are implemented in the context of addressing the migration crisis are not being dealt with by the Afghánec. These programs were passed by several individuals, but they were people from Syria, an event. Eritrea, i.e. several individuals from this region, but could not be human if the identification is correct, and I don't know, it could not be human if it is Afghánec, who would go through the system of relocation or restlement, which is approved by the government and which takes place on the basis of the Ministry of the Interior in connection with the resolution of the migration crisis. That's probably all the information I can give you. I checked with the Home Secretary to see if it was any of these programmes related to the resolution of the migration crisis, and the Home Secretary assured me that such a programme was not involved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u45	Thank you. The Member wishes to ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u46	It's common for colleagues here to say - I didn't want to ask any more questions. I really didn't want to ask her, but a simple question is logically offered. Does that mean he was an illegal migrant?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u47	I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u48	I have to say, I'm not an investigator for this case, that is. I was not present in the interrogation of the person concerned or in his detention. But I can promise you that I will contact the Home Secretary in writing and ask for information as to whether this person's identity has been verified and whether he can provide any additional information. If I receive this information on this matter, i.e. whether the identity of the person has been verified and if there is anything else to be said about this, then I would reply in writing to this matter. So I'm going to verify the other facts, because at this point, I really don't have any more details at my disposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u49	Thank you. And now, please, to Mr Okamura's microphone, Mr Radim Fiala will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u50	Dear Prime Minister, on October 30, the Afghan migrant attempted to rape a nurse at the Na Bulovka Hospital in Prague. The official information you told us you didn't know her, so I'll help you, which was also confirmed by the spokesperson of the District Court for Prague 8 Petr Novák, sounds like he was a legal migrant. So the courts have the information, you don't have it, now I've helped you. So I'm begging you for an answer. How legal was he a migrant? So he was a man who applied officially at the Czech Attorney's Office in a country for asylum? Or did your government or your ministers and authorities, under the authority of your government, comply? Or was he a migrant who applied for asylum after illegally crossing our borders or borders of the European Schengen area? Who approved it? How and by whom was this man and his past examined? Our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, the SPD, has been promoting zero tolerance for migration in the current migration wave from the outset. We reject Muslim, Arab and African migrants to the Czech Republic and promote a ban on promoting Islamic Sharia law in the Czech Republic. But yours, the Sobotkův and Babišův government, is doing the opposite, and you have rejected all of our proposals. Do you realize that if your government didn't accept these migrants, this poor Czech woman might not have been raped? Do you realize that by accepting these migrants into the Czech Republic, you are de facto an accomplice to this appalling act? Do you personally feel that everything is okay, Prime Minister, or that something or someone has failed? Who in particular, Prime Minister? You will personally contact this raped woman and explain to her why you accept African and Arab migrants to the Czech Republic? And what do you think this woman and her family will answer?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u51	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u52	Thank you. First of all, any such crime is totally unacceptable to the government. Any such behavior is completely unacceptable to the government. Whoever's gonna do it. And if an Afghánec has been identified here, then I will contact the Home Secretary and ask that his identity be checked and that I get the exact written information on how this person got to the Czech Republic. I have examined today whether it was part of the programme that was approved in connection with the resolution of the migration crisis in the context of relocation, resettlement. And it wasn't about this program. That's the information I can provide at the moment. As soon as I have more detailed information, I'm sure I'm ready to share it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u53	Thank you. The Member wishes to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u54	Prime Minister, that is an incredible answer. It's been almost two weeks since the rape, and you don't know where this Afghánec came from. Again, the spokesperson of the District Court for Prague 8 said that this man is legally here. Will your government finally end the admission of African and Arab migrants and Muslims to the Czech Republic? I therefore ask that your written reply to my last interpellation revealed that your government spends billions of crowns a year on the permanent integration of migrants into the Czech Republic. And last September, your government agreed another half a billion crowns to integrate another 6,000 migrants into the Czech Republic in the next three years. This money is, of course, at the expense of money for the Czech citizens. I consider this absolutely appalling and our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, the SPD, fundamentally disagrees with this. And again, I'm shocked that you, as Prime Minister of the Czech Government, after 14 days of the Afghánec rape on October 30th, do not know to this day whether the Afghánec was here legally or not, the courts confirm it and you do not have the information at all and you do not really care.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u55	I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u56	Thank you. First of all, I want to say that the figures quoted here are figures that are unrealistic because no such influx of refugees has occurred in the Czech Republic this year. And I suppose, and I'm almost sure it won't even happen next year. So the money won't have to be spent, and the situation won't have to be dealt with. As regards the integration of foreigners in the past, this concerned, in particular, the people who came from Ukraine, in particular, the people who came from Russia, and it concerned the people who came from Cuba. I have not noticed that there would be a problem with people who have been given asylum from these regions and where funds have been spent to help, to support their integration so that they can integrate into our society so that they can find work here so that they have a chance to get some housing to get an education, virtually. learned Czech etc. Similarly, we financed help for our countrymen from Ukraine, and it would not be good to forget that. The numbers Mr Okamura mentioned here, the money was used by me. to take care of a few dozen of our countrymen who have been relocated from Ukraine, who have asked for it, and that program has been approved by our government. So I don't think it's possible to mix pears with apples, it's not possible to create here an idea that there are several thousand refugees going to be accepted here when nothing like this is going to happen in the Czech Republic and it is not going to happen. And as for the identity of this person, I'm here without him having a clear background from the Police of the Czech Republic, I can't confirm whether this is true. There are many things in the media, there are different statements, many of them are then demented, many things can be distorted. So I received an interview on this matter today, I'm going to contact the Home Secretary, I'm going to ask for a statement as to what was the identity of this person, what is his status here in the Czech Republic, so that I can have it verified, and this information will be provided.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u57	Thank you, Prime Minister. Another winner is Mr Radim Fiala, who is absent, so his interpellation is failing. And now, to Mr Petr Fiala's microphone, please give his interview to the Prime Minister. Mr Luzar will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u58	Dear Prime Minister, I've heard from your mouth several times recently that the government you run has worked well and has excellent results. I will not surprise you that I do not share this view, because the government has been focusing since its founding on measures against active, hardworking, decent people and constantly by its measures, the growth of bureaucracy complicates life. But that's not what I'm talking about right now. [[15.30 hours]] I have listened, like all citizens of this country, that you are going to reconstruct the government, which, of course, is your right, which I fully respect. However, it seems a little strange in connection with your recent statements. For example, in September of this year, you said: "The government is extremely stable. The frequency of changes in individual ministries has decreased against what we have seen in the past, and this contributes to the state's functioning better." So if that's what you're thinking, I don't understand why you're approaching changes in government less than a year before the election, denying your own words. I think this is just a marketing trick. But, of course, that's your business. I'm more concerned about the way that, I think, it doesn't just make me uncomfortable, it concerns the public, not just me. When the Prime Minister announces changes in the ministerial posts and the media subsequently informs us about who has rejected all the changes that the ministerial post has rejected, all at a time when the budget is on the agenda, when we are dealing with the air rescue service here today - it probably concerns the Minister of Health - etc., etc., etc. To add that the Minister of Health himself says in the media that we can still put an ad in the newspaper, that there is someone looking for a minister of health. I really don't think such a course of action is reasonable, and I would like to ask you if there will be anyone who wants to be a minister of this government in the foreseeable future, and if you do not think that you are threatening the functioning of our state by your process.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u59	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u60	Thank you. As regards the provision of air rescue services, honourable Members, we have implemented an open selection procedure there. And all I'm saying is that here in the previous interview, it was criticized that the Ministry of Transport was entering contracts without an open tender. So I just want to make sure that there was an open tender, that operators were competing in all regions where the air rescue service was provided. And in most of these circuits, the contracts have already been concluded. I suspect that in two of these districts this matter is examined by the Office for the Protection of Competition. That means the government will do whatever it takes. And even if there's some kind of uncertainty about the contracts relating to these circuits, the government has a plan to secure the air rescue service. So this thing is solved here, and I don't think there's a problem. As far as the stability of the government coalition is concerned, I don't see a problem here either. None of the coalition parties are questioning the coalition government. We have enough votes for the state budget. I remind you, he went through a very smooth first reading here with a lot of votes. That means there's no problem. This week, we have approved a number of government bills that have received the necessary support from coalition MPs. As far as the replacement of part of the members of the government is concerned, it is indeed my constitutional authority. I have appointed those members of the government, influenced naturally in a fundamental way their choice from the point of view of social democracy as Prime Minister and Chairman of Social Democracy, and I want to evaluate and evaluate in these days what the effectiveness of their work is and whether I can count on their full commitment to the very end of the term of office. That means I'm going this way. I also announced that I would make personnel changes to the government. I have defined that this will be around the horizon of the month from the moment I announced it publicly and also to the members of social democracy, so I will make this change in a responsible manner. As far as the stability of government is concerned, she's really stable. For the past three years, there have been a small number of changes. And I'm just reminding you, this is a little different from what used to be here in the past. In the past, it has been so that ministers have mostly changed under the pressure of scandals, under the pressure of corruption affairs, under the pressure of prosecution, etc. Those were the changes in the government. This is a slightly different situation because my goal is - and I don't make changes under the pressure of any of these affairs or scandals, but I do it simply to strengthen the efficiency of the government team to strengthen the dynamics of the government team. That is the goal of the changes I am preparing at the moment. It's really different from the past, but I think we should get used to it. That changes in government may not necessarily occur only if there is a scandal. And I am very glad that this government has not burdened and burdened the public space in recent years with scandals that we did not really have to solve the problems that our predecessors have solved. And thanks to that, the government's been here almost three years, and the government's got results. I do not agree with Mr Fiala's view, although I respect that, as an opposition leader, he has the right to criticise the government. However, look at the real situation. We have the greatest employment in history. The other states envy us. Biggest employment in history, 5% unemployment. And this year we will have a budget surplus for many years. After all, this is positive information for this Chamber of Deputies. We have approved the budget with the deficit, but the economy is going well, tax collection is going well, people have work, 200 000 people have found work, and thanks to that we also have a budget surplus at record level this year. These are the real results of the government's work. Those are hard to argue about. These are real facts that help improve the lives of citizens in our country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u61	Thank you. The Member wishes to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u62	Of course, I understand that the Prime Minister can do nothing but praise his government. However, at the same time, he told the entire public that he was not satisfied with part of the government and its work, that he wanted to replace some ministers because they were tired, etc. It does not seem to me that on these particular actions and statements of the Prime Minister, it is possible to deduce from them that he is as satisfied with the government's activities as he is now telling us that everything is without problems. But I repeat once again, Prime Minister, you have the right, of course, to exchange ministers, and that is all your competence. Anyway, I'm also talking a little bit about the way. And that's not entirely your concern anymore. If your health minister here in the media says he's embarrassed right now, because he doesn't know who could replace him -- "I was still thinking that we could put an ad in the paper looking for someone to be a minister of health"-- don't be mad at me, this doesn't suggest that there's some thoughtful conceptual exchange of government going on. And this doesn't make the public aware, and this doesn't make everyone that the administration of these resorts touches.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u63	Your time, Mr. Ambassador. I'm sorry, but time is relentless. I'll ask the Prime Minister for a response. No reaction, okay. Next in line, please, and that is Mr Luzar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u64	Madam Vice-President, Prime Minister, in this microphone, I could talk about the objectivity of Czech television for a long time. I am familiar with the criticism of Czech Television in the framework of the broadcast on the situation of both international and local. I will not mention Ukraine here, I will not mention other matters, but I will stop at a situation that no one can suspect to me that I would be critical of Czech television. I'll mention the presidential election in America. What Czech television showed with its one-sided focused broadcast, completely outside of any objectivity and acceptance of other opinions, with the choice of guests who were in the studio and all cheering for only one side, clearly showed what objectivity in the Czech Republic is and what we can expect from the Czech Republic in the future. Just one-sided reception of news, which is suitable for a group currently controlling the Czech TV. And so, as it wants to act on the public in a one-sided way, it is quite obvious from this broadcast. And I think that whether from the right or from the left these views on what has happened in the current presidential elections in the United States and informing the Czech Republic about them, they will give me the truth. I therefore ask, Prime Minister, is it not time for Parliament to take responsibility and not through the Council of the Czech Republic, but to act directly as the supervisory authority of this television? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u65	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u66	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, I do not want to evaluate the specific broadcasts of the Czech Republic right now, I just want to say in general that when public opinion polls are being conducted in Europe about who people in Europe would vote for the US President, which in itself is an absurd question, because this situation will never happen, unless this person becomes an American citizen for some reason, Hillary Clintonová has triumphed significantly in all those researches in Europe. And it is possible that the generally widespread support that was targeted in this direction for the public could, of course, also be reflected in the way in which some public media editors informed about these elections. However, I just want to remind you - and it is a strange situation to talk about it in the context of an interpelling to the Prime Minister, because the government has no special powers over Czech television. This means the government itself, within its competence, cannot interfere with the process, which I think is a good thing. And the second thing is how the Chamber of Deputies will approach it. It has the possibility of sanctions in the form of approval or disapproval of reports on the activities of Czech Television or the Czech Television Council. So what I want to remind you is that, unlike the government, the Chamber of Deputies has a tool in its hand to work in relation to how public media works. And there is also the competence that the Chamber of Deputies has, which means voting for members of relevant media councils. As to whether mediated or directly, I believe that there has been a different model here in the past, where nominations were proposed directly by individual parliamentary clubs. Then the model was changed. These nominees are proposed by individual organisations and clubs are expressed in support of them or not in support of the elections here at the Chamber of Deputies. It is hard to say which system is better from the point of view of respecting the balanced, objective television broadcasting and the role that the Czech Television Council, possibly the Czech Radio Council and the Chamber of Deputies, should play as a guarantee here. What I would recommend is perhaps a more intensive discussion on the ground of the competent authorities. The Chamber of Deputies with members of the Council who are elected by the Chamber of Deputies on Czech Television. I think this intense discussion cannot be seen as an attempt to influence the functioning of Czech television. Even counsel has limited powers to use. However, communication with those members of the Council and expressing the views of the Members of the Chamber of Deputies can certainly contribute to keeping these people from moving in a vacuum so that they do not have information from just one side, or only information from the management of the public media, but also to hear your views and the views of voters in a mediated manner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u67	Thank you. The Member will ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u68	Just in a little bit. Prime Minister, of course I referred to you as the top representative of one of the strongest political parties in the Czech Republic. The problem with objective intelligence concerns all of us. We're going through a democratic test, an election test. And, of course, we are responsible to our constituents. And public media is supposed to be a reflection of voters and electoral will, and they are also supposed to give space to all the opinions that are being expressed to all the relevant opinions. That is why I deliberately chose the US presidential elections, which do not directly touch us and are a possible mirror of the work of Czech Television. Unfortunately, the advice in this composition and the way it is chosen and recommended, today rather, allow me the expression, he eats from the hands of the management of Czech television and does not correspond to how it should work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u69	Thank you. The Prime Minister will respond. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u70	Thank you. I may use this to compare the situation in America and in our country a little bit, because I think it's a good thing that we have public media because it can't happen well enough for public media to recommend to citizens who to vote for as president of the Republic. When I noticed the media reality that was in America before the elections, a number of media didn't stick around, couldn't stay in a political struggle, and eventually openly recommended people to vote for in the US elections. So I'm glad we have public media. It's just an important thing for some fair political game. It is important that the public media be neutral to provide balanced accurate information for citizens, neutral in a political struggle, not in relation to the truth. Of course, they must inform truthfully with respect to objectivity, but they should not engage directly in a political struggle, and for God's sake, they should not shun anyone in particular or recommend someone in particular.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u71	Thank you. Now, to the microphone, please, Mrs Kovářová, to present her interpellation to the Prime Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u72	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, at the beginning of this June, I interviewed you about the high-speed Internet. It was then that the Ministry of Industry and Trade failed to prepare the National Plan for the development of new generation networks. In response to my intervention, you said that Minister Mládek assured you that this term was 30. 6. 2016 for the submission of relevant material to the Government will be respected. As far as I know, this plan did not work out completely when the government approved the plan only at the beginning of this October. However, it has been approved and this is crucial. However, certain questions persist. Because according to your last statement, it is not clear that Minister Mládek will remain in his office, I allow myself to contact you again with my questions. Prime Minister, does the approval of the National New Generation Network Development Plan mean that 14 billion to develop high-speed Internet in regions are definitely saved or not? Does the government know about obstacles that could endanger the pumping? And what are the next steps with regard to the drawing of these funds? In the second part of my interpelation, I would ask about the problem related. In your reply, you stated that - I quote: "14 billion of European funds cannot solve and do not address the issue of connection to high-speed Internet throughout the Czech Republic. For this, much larger investments will be needed by private providers of this connection. These are funds that we will be able to use in specific regions in which there is no and will not be a chance to improve Internet connection without this support and without this grant." I wonder if the government is going to try to make private providers invest more in the development of high-speed Internet in areas that do not cover European subsidies. [[Attention on time.]] If so, through what measures? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u73	Thank you. I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u74	Thank you. Madam Members, I would like to thank Mrs Kovářová for her long-term interest in this issue, because I must say that she, in part, also remained somewhat unnoticed, unfortunately, by at least some of the officials at the offices who were to deal with the preparation of relevant conceptual documents. However, perhaps the end can be good, all good, because the government has actually managed to discuss two key documents, which we have also discussed here in the past on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies and during the intercession. On 5 October this year, the government approved two key materials, both the National Plan for the Development of New Generation Networks and then the draft Act on measures to reduce the cost of implementing high-speed electronic communications networks. The approval of the National Plan for the Development of New Generation Networks was a prerequisite for fulfilling the preliminary conditions for implementing the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness, called Enlarge Coverage by High Speed Internet Access. This means that we have a national plan at the moment, allowing us to activate a significant part of the PIK operational programme, in which EUR 521 million is currently allocated, which is roughly CZK 14 billion. Thus, the basic condition for the use of the money at all was met at the level of the government. However, implementation documents, such as project evaluation criteria and a call proposal, are now being prepared, and the identification of the intervention areas to which the aid may be directed is further completed. These are the areas where, based on the evaluation, it will not be possible to secure connection to the high-speed Internet in any other way. The proposals for measures aimed at removing legislative and other obstacles preventing the development of new generation networks are also an integral part of this National Plan for the development of new generation networks. I think it is also good to mention that the Ministry of Industry and Trade is preparing an action plan to implement measures to support the planning and construction of electronic communications networks and this action plan is to be submitted to the Government by the end of March 2017. [[15.50 hours]] Allow me to inform you very briefly about the bill. The draft law on measures to reduce the costs of the deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks was referred to the Chamber of Deputies on 18 October, so it should be put on the agenda of the next proper meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I would also like to call on Members to discuss this proposal as quickly as possible in the House of Deputies, because this is also one of the conditions that will not be disrupted by the drawing of funds. So, if the Member asked if there were risks, yes, there is still a risk that this law would not be approved by the end of this parliamentary term, and if something like this had happened, then it would have to be presented again, and I think it would have put at risk at all the time that we have for that 14 billion. The crowns were effectively used. So we at the level of the government want to complete the preparation, make all the necessary documentation, and it is just that the European Commission does not stop us drawing this money just because we do not meet the condition of the relevant legislative changes that should be made here. I want to assure you clearly that the government in the area of promoting the development of high-speed networks is taking active steps, that we have met and reached the basic milestones, as we have set them, although unfortunately with a few months' delay compared to what was originally declared, we have nevertheless achieved this. On the issue of motivation for private investors, I hope that the motivation for private entrepreneurs in this area will be a competitive environment. This means that we need all the rules for the functioning of this business in the Czech Republic to be set up competitively enough so that there is a competition that will benefit consumers and will also concern the quality of coverage that will be available. We have several operators operating on our market, we have here an independent Czech Telecommunications Authority, which should guard these conditions, should guard open competition, and we need this open competition to improve access to the Internet where state subsidies or European subsidies cannot be used.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u75	Thank you. The honourable Member wants to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u76	Thank you. Prime Minister, you said that there was a bit of a problem with the preparation of the documents, that some of the authorities that were supposed to deal with the preparation of the relevant documents were a bit reluctant. So I want to ask which authorities, because if there is any delay, then the result is that we are being asked here in the Chamber of Deputies to approve an urgent document that you have just mentioned and whose discussion has actually been postponed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u77	Thank you, and I'll ask the Prime Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u78	Thank you. I don't think it's a secret. The primary responsibility for the processing of documents was, of course, the officials at the Ministry of Industry and Trade, but it was also important how the others provided them, which means the Czech Telecommunications Office, event. The Ministry of the Interior and other state institutions that have been intersected in this. Of course, I would much rather that the deadlines could be met sooner. You also know that I have personally intervened repeatedly on this issue, that, after all, the government has appointed a coordinator for the digital agenda, which has also put greater pressure on the institutions concerned. But in the end, I would like to thank you for one thing. Although at the beginning there were quite difficult agreements and polemics, in the end there was a significant improvement in communication between the Ministry of Industry and the Czech Telecommunications Office. And I think that this improved pragmatic communication between these state authorities, which has also been created under political pressure, has led to the fact that, in the end, we have the key documents at our disposal. I hope the laws we need to discuss before the end of the term will not be too much. But I want to remind you that we sent the law here on October 18th, which means that it really means almost a year before the election. You know, most of the time, the law is passed somewhere around nine months, so I still think we're still in a real frame. If we sent it here in the spring, of course, I would be much more skeptical, but now I dare to express some slight optimism that in less than a year, both chambers could be able to approve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u79	Thank you. And now, to Mrs Semelová's mike, please give her interview to the Prime Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u80	Dear Prime Minister, at the beginning of September, I interviewed you on the privatisation of ČEZ's flats. In short, I will remind you that this is the sale of more than 740 flats on Prague's Písnice and 33 apartments in Vršovice including land, not only under apartment buildings. The form of the tender, which CEZ has approached, where the only criterion is the price offered, is quite logically rebelling by local citizens. They demand the cancellation of an opaque tender and invite the company to offer the apartments to the current tenants at a preferential price, as was the case in other locations where CEZ decided to sell its flats. You yourself stated in your reply to my September interpellation that there was no reason for the procedure chosen by ČEZ and that you do not understand why the sales schedule was set as it is now. You promised you'd continue to take a personal interest in the matter. I would therefore like to ask you, on behalf of the people concerned, who have been associated in the My Song Initiative, who have turned to me: What have you done in this matter since my last interview? How will the government stand to challenge CEZ, in which the state has a majority stake, to cancel the tender for the sale of the housing estate to the highest bidder and to offer the flats to the current tenants in preference? How is it possible that the members of the supervisory board of ČEZ, who were appointed by the majority owner, approved the current immoral method of the tender? How is it possible that a set of documents is missing to set a price, address liabilities to tenants, or contain economic contracts in connection with the care of the housing fund in the case of about 8,000 flats, including the Song that goes into the ownership of ČEZ, a.s., on the basis of the privatisation project number 11315? [[Your time!]] Doesn't anybody care?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u81	I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u82	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the interventions that have been made to me here at the Chamber of Deputies, I turned to the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš by letter and asked him to justify CEZ's decision on the sale of flats and other information on the privatisation of CEZ's flats, given that the Ministry of Finance exercises shareholder rights for the state in CEZ. I received information from him. I would like to quote from the information here: "After examining all the information I have received for the tender, I believe that the procedure of CEZ is chosen not in a transparent manner and enables the involvement of the widest possible range of candidates. If the sale is realized, then the entire residential portfolio will be sold and can reasonably be expected to maximize profit in this form of sale. From the point of view of the proposed timetable, it is undoubtedly appropriate to extend the deadline for submission of tenders, but CEZ has already done this, and the extension of the deadline by six weeks can be considered to be helpful with regard to market standards." From this letter I can also quote that the real estate agency Naxos, which was entrusted with the organisation of the tender, pointed out that, in view of the opening of the competition just before the start of the holidays, it would be appropriate to postpone the deadline for the submission of tenders and, following that notice, CEZ's management decided to postpone the deadline for submitting the tender by six weeks, i.e. until 2 December this year. The change in the terms of the tender was announced on Monday 19. 9. Supplement to the conditions of the tender. The conditions of the tender, as stated in this letter received from the Minister of Finance, included a limited social aspect, which is only optional for those interested in purchasing the housing fund. These are the following options for the liabilities of the future owner: Commitment of the candidate to make, no later than three years after the signature of the purchase contract, all legal acts aimed at declaring the division of the right to immovable property into ownership of the units and subsequently the newly created units to offer priority for the purchase of tenants using the individual units on the date of registration of these units in the real estate register. [[16.00 hours]] The purchase price for the units thus transferred may not exceed an amount of 29 thousand. CZK per m2, respectively. 44,000. CZK per m2 for the housing cooperative Vršovice according to the state of the unit or the possibility of that future commitment, the obligation of the interested party to keep the rent in individual apartments in the current amount for at least five years from the date of conclusion of the purchase contract, or the obligation of the interested party not to increase the rent in individual apartments by more than 10 per cent for a period of five years from the date of conclusion of the purchase contract. In the event that one of the participants commits to one of the above proposed obligations, he will benefit from the award of the tender. The advantage ranges up to about 5 percent of the price. According to ČEZ's statement, the social aspect could not be taken into account in a more pronounced way, given its business-based status and thus the maximization of profits. It is thus accountable to its shareholders and therefore cannot proceed in the management of its assets by taking significant account of the social aspects of its customers, or in this case the tenants. For this, the social policy instruments of the state serve. So many quotes from the letter I received on this matter based on the information I requested from the Finance Minister. I have also registered in the media the interest of the capital city of Prague in the possibility - and now I only speculate because I am based on media information - on the possibility of submitting an offer within this competition. So I just remind you that the deadline for submitting offers was extended until 2 December 2016, and naturally if the capital of Prague wanted to participate in this competition and submit an offer, I think the space is open here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u83	Thank you. Madame, would you like to ask an additional question? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u84	As far as the capital is concerned, I've intersected it. The council was promised to deal with this. The council of the capital city of Prague withdrew the councilman's material from the discussion with the fact that it will only appeal to the government. [[unintelligible]] I submit that there is also a problem that, although CEZ argues that it has to deal with the care of a proper manager, it certainly did not do so in those years when it took care of these flats, because the apartments are devastated. They didn't put a penny in them, the tenants paid for it all. Next, I wanted to ask if you've dealt directly with the board, because that's what we talked about last time. Finally, if there is an argument by the Commercial Corporations Act, I would also like to say that they ignore the fact that in § 51 para. 1 It is said that a member of the company's body and the entire corporation must respect the social circumstances of their activities. The only aspect in decision making is not only the vision of maximizing profits, but also the responsibility to human society and social security. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u85	Prime Minister, will you respond? You will. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u86	Thank you. First let me add some information concerning the capital city of Prague. I was approached by Mrs. Mayor Krnáčová by letter. She sent me a resolution from the Council of the City of Prague and is currently being processed at the Office of the Government in response to this letter from the Mayor who was delivered to the Office of the Government in recent days. I would really consider it a reasonable solution if the capital of Prague were to enter this process, but it is his decision. The government can't decide that. With regard to the situation of ČEZ, I think the main problem is, among other things, that the State holds 70 percent of CEZ's shares and 30% holds private shareholders, and that if the State, which controls the company through its majority, acted contrary to the principles that concern the care of a proper economy in selling these flats, it would probably be a very easily contested matter by minority shareholders. This is, I think, the fundamental problem that we are facing at the moment in the debate that is being conducted, as you have seen, from the point of view of the shareholder, to create the most appropriate conditions for possible sale of these flats. This is the main problem - conflict with the trade code, conflict with the issue of ensuring proper care of the economy and the risk of possible actions by minority shareholders, should it be handled in a different way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u87	Thank you, Prime Minister. We have thus exhausted the time for interpellation to the Prime Minister. We will now continue with our interpelations on the other members of the government. Just hold on one second, I'll pass on the controls.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u88	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Before we go to any more government interviews, we'll have to apologize. Mr František Adámek apologizes from today's meeting at 16 o'clock for personal reasons and from today's meeting at 14.30 o'clock Mr Jiří Mihola apologizes. Mr Václav Klučka, who will interpel the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec on measures to mitigate the negative effects of drought, drew his first vote. Please, Mr. Ambassador, up on the current subject.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u89	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I didn't really draw it, it was drawn by the machine that places the interpelation there. Dear Minister, last year the Czech Republic experienced an extreme drought, one of the worst in the history of measurement. Although it seems that this year's water deficit will be replaced, experts say that less than the usual water supply in the soil typical for this period of the year, we will find only 40 percent of our territory in the entire profile. I am pleased that the government is aware of the impact of climate change and has already adopted Resolution No. 620/2015 to prepare for the implementation of measures to mitigate the negative effects of drought and water shortages, with information on the state of preparation for the implementation of these measures to be processed by 31 December of this year. Dear Minister, what is the state of the preparation of the Ministry of Environment's tasks under this government resolution? Is there already a proposal for a solution to a crisis situation caused by drought and water shortages in the Czech Republic? I just want to point out that part 3 of the government's material contains 51 measures divided into groups which represent a certain proportion of the solution to this situation. I'm very interested in how it's filled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u90	Thank you, honourable Member. Please - I will not ask the Minister because he is not present, so the Member will be answered in writing. Mr. Jiří Koubek, who will also interpel the absent finance minister Andrej Babiš, on the sale of the song house of ČEZ, will give the second interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Dear again absent, Minister of Finance, representatives of the My Song initiative have contacted you by letter in connection with the sale of the housing fund at the Prague residence of Písnice and the Bělocerkevská housing house. As mayor of the relevant town area, where the said housing estate belongs, I feel obliged to summarize the basic thesis of this letter here in the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, and I would like to ask you for an opinion, in the absence of you, for a written opinion. As you know, the housing estate together with the extensive land below it is now owned by ČEZ, where the state manages a majority shareholder share through the Ministry of Finance. The famous fact is that a new line of Prague metro D should end in the future near the Písnice housing estate. The current tenants in more than 750 apartments therefore have a legitimate concern that their homes will end up in the hands of speculators who can fundamentally influence their lives. [[He said seventy-fifty.]] It follows from earlier statements by you and CEZ that the participation of the tenants in the tender is welcome. The tenants of the apartments would like to participate in the competition, but the existing conditions for their participation virtually exclude them. First of all, it is necessary to create a cooperative or similar structure, to provide bank financing for the submission of the offer and also to prepare the necessary contractual documentation. According to my information, banks estimate the time frame for such a transaction for 4 to 5 months. I would remind you that the time limit for the submission of tenders in the tender is already 2 December of this year. [[16.10 hours]] Everyone should therefore be interested in ensuring that competition is fair and transparent. I therefore ask, Minister, if you will support the request of My Song for an extension of the deadline for submission of the tender until 31 May 2017. I believe that you are not indifferent to the fates of more than 3,000 citizens. People are rightly concerned about the scenario we know from the case of OKD apartments. I hope no one dares to repeat a similar mistake in 2016. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u92	Thank you, honourable Member. The third interview will be given by Mr Antonín Seďa, who will interpel Mr Dan Ťok on the case of the Kapsch fine. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u93	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I want to thank the Minister for taking the time to come to my interview. So, Minister, I've interrogated you twice about the continuation of the agreement with Kapsch. Once it was a year ago in the project manager's case and in February this year to cancel the contract for an advisor. I have always warned that this is not a correct procedure by the Ministry of Transport. You have now been fined by the Office for the Protection of Competition, precisely because of the extension of the contract to choose a myth. According to the Authority, the Ministry of Transport committed an administrative offence when it concluded amendments to the contract with Kapsch in a negotiated procedure without publication without meeting the conditions for the use of this type of procurement procedure. Dear Minister, my previous interpellations drew attention to this problem, for which you were subsequently fined a million dollars. Not only did you ignore the warning, but allegedly you won't even appeal to the verdict of the office and pay the fine. That's why I have two questions for you. Firstly, which of your representatives or officials is responsible specifically for preparing and implementing this procedure with Kapsch. And secondly, will you, as Minister, enforce this million-dollar fine after those subordinates who prepared the amendments to the contract? Thank you for your specific answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u94	Thank you, honourable Member. I ask the Minister for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u95	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would like to begin by thanking Mr Seďa for his constant interest in the myth. I would like to answer as follows. One. Office for the Protection of Competition in Administrative Procedure initiated by the Office of Officials on 9. 9. 2016 in connection with the conclusion of two amendments to the contract for the provision of services related to the operation of the power charging system of selected roads in the Czech Republic and the contract for the supply of the power charging system within the framework of a public contract called the provision of the electronic toll system after 2016 entered into a negotiated procedure without publication, decided on 25 October 2016 that the contracting authority, i.e. the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Transport, committed an administrative offence, and for this offence imposed a fine of CZK 1 million. In general, as regards the scope of the reasoning of this Decision, the Ministry of Transport agrees with it that the state of exclusivity was created in 2005 and 2006, when the two contracts were prepared and the tender procedure for the supply and operation of the existing electronic myth system took place. The Ministry of Transport is aware of the fact that the award of a public contract in an open procedure does not restrict the scope of potential suppliers and allows universal access to the public procurement market is an ideal starting point. The Ministry of Transport has therefore also made efforts to ensure that the open procurement procedure for the award of the contract in question can be carried out. Unfortunately, it was found that the essential preconditions for the successful implementation of the open procurement procedure were not fulfilled and were not and was not in the power of the Ministry of Transport without the consent of the third party, i.e. the existing service supplier, the consortium of Kapsch, to reverse this situation without further. In other words, if I were to respond to the questions raised by the Member, the state of exclusivity was essentially due to the decision on how the contract was to be drawn up and how it was added. And if we didn't want to and didn't make the Czech Republic a parking lot and ensured what we wanted to ensure that we continue to collect the toll and the Czech Republic will collect 10 billion. from the myth, so we had to take this step. So I don't see any reason at all to deal with who made a mistake or a mistake from my current deputy. In good faith, we have taken the steps that can be taken, and I think that is also the justification of the Office for Competition Protection speaking in this sense. So I am convinced that we have taken a step that we have to take in the interests of the citizens of this country, and if they arise from this, or if there are any problems for those who have signed or approved it, I am prepared to bear that step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u96	Thank you, Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u97	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Thank you, Minister. All this is known. However, even in 2005 to 2006, when the agreement with Kapsch was being prepared, and you rightly say that this is an exclusive state, someone was responsible. And the bad language says that your deputy Kopřiva, as well as the current deputy, was behind this. So that's one thing. Second thing. I understand that you were actually faced with a tough choice, and you voted for the better of the worse solution. But on the other hand, people come to me asking me who's gonna pay that one million out of taxpayers' money. And I think it should be the officials who made a mistake. Maybe 2005-2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u98	Please, Minister, your follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u99	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, all I know about the role of Deputy Commissioner Kopřiva today is that he was not a deputy at the time when the treaties were being prepared. I don't want to judge. I know the whole matter has been dealt with by law enforcement agencies, and if anything has come of it, let it come out of it. Now, at the moment... First of all, if we compare this fine paid by the Ministry of Transport to the Office of Competition, then when we compare it with the 10 billion, or when we compare it with the daily collection of myths at around 25 to 40 million, it seems to me that this is an issue that does not need to be dealt with. And if so, of course, there is the Supreme Audit Office and other authorities that can and will come to a conclusion. My job was to ensure that the myth continues to be collected. And I'm convinced I've secured that. And to find the guilty, I'd leave it to those who deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u100	I thank the Minister for this reply. In the fourth interview, Mr Karel Rais will intersect the absent Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek on the information system Visapoint Ukraine. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u101	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government. Dear absent Minister of Foreign Affairs, I know that your work duties have brought you to Korea, luckily to South, and of course I will accept a written answer. So very briefly. I know from the public press that the number of visas issued by Ukrajinec in 2015, compared to previous years, for example 2007, has fallen dramatically. At the same time, in political discussions on migration policy, Czech MEPs, government, Economic Chamber of the Czech Republic and individual Czech entrepreneurs strongly prefer workers from Slavic states, especially from Ukraine. We therefore have a common interest in ensuring that the acquisition of Czech visas for Ukrainian applicants takes place smoothly and in accordance with the law. [[16.20 hours]] However, this declaration is strongly breaking up with the actions of our consular institutions in Ukraine. The visa applicant must obtain an interview with the Embassy employee through the Visapoint online publicly available system, and the Embassy will then decide whether or not to issue a visa to the applicant on the basis of this interview. The reality is that a regular applicant practically does not have a chance to get an interview with embassies, while the dealer standing in front of the embassy will provide you with a visa for 150 euros to wait. So my question is how do you ensure, through adjustments to the information system or to the Embassy's operations, and so on, that Visapoint is really publicly available for a regular Ukrainian visa applicant and that it is not blocked by a cyber mafia that suits that this system is not resistant to corruption. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u102	Thank you, honourable Member. Mrs Jana Lorencová, who will interpel the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec on the financing of non-state non-profit organisations in the context of migration, will give the fifth interview. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u103	Mr President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to begin by saying that, according to the Czech Statistical Office, more than 91,000 have already been registered this year - you hear well, 91,000 - non-profit organizations, now it is called associations. To this we must add 26,000 branches, another 510 foundation funds, 1 574 generally beneficial companies and so on. The money that flows there, which is about 14 billion a year, is devoted to the care of refugees. In some cases, it is almost touching care. And I forget the fact that it doesn't matter where they come from. It's not just from the countries of the last war conflicts, but overall. Sometimes it is explained to us that this is a dictation of the European Union. We have considered this with our colleague Zdeněk Soukup and we have come to quite interesting conclusions. Many of these associations take care of refugees. For example, the Refugee Aid Organization receives 47 million for its activities, the Association for Integration and Migration 30 million. I can just go on, there are a number of associations, and the total amount spent at a time when we have almost no refugees is about half a billion. I would like to ask the Minister what kind of citizen he is, because it is from state resources, as the citizen has the chance to get to know him in detail about how he is dealing with the money. [[Time warning]] Those sororities exist in his name. And the last sentence: Is there any comparative study, anything we can learn from how associations work in neighbouring countries in the European Union?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u104	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u105	Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to mention the figures for 2015. In 2015, the Ministry of the Interior's gesture towards the non-profit sector, i.e. organizations dealing with these topics, was provided with a total of CZK 27,613,282, i.e. from the Ministry of the Interior's gesture. And of that, the integration of foreigners 12 million 859 thousand, the European Fund for Integration of Third-country nationals 2 million 100 thousand roughly and the asylum and migration and integration fund of CZK 12 million 604 thousand. Those are the numbers that the Ministry of Interior has on the agenda. Of course, there are other ministries that provide money for these projects. I am prepared, Madam President, to give you some comprehensive information on this, including drawing. Grant schemes with conditions and parameters are written for this. There is, of course, an obligation on those entities who receive money to report it and thus report it in a form that is controllable. To your question, which you asked, and I find it quite interesting, I apologize that I do not have the answer, if there is a comparison with a foreigner. I'll take that as an incentive. I'll find out if it's not, I'll enter. If there is such a thing, I will deliver it in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u106	Thank you, Minister. The honourable Member has an additional question. Please, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u107	Yes, I would like to ask myself an additional question, if the Minister and colleagues know that, in addition to the means I have mentioned, these associations are still saturated from the European Union's money. And I know that next year could be a little bit improved, the overview of what's going on with the money. But this year, it's just not possible to trace anything to the more detailed activities of these associations. I will, of course, give the Minister the numbers relating to those associations dealing with migration. For example, I will add: Multicultural Centre Prague, more than 24 million. And only a man in distress of 250 million. So the numbers you mentioned, Minister, I don't think we're gonna meet there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u108	Minister, shall we meet or not?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u109	I think that the question asked here by Mrs Lorencová should be aimed at the Minister of Finance. The Ministry of Finance will probably have an overall overview of the drawing of grant titles for the whole state administration and the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, I only have these numbers in the Ministry of the Interior's migration strategy. A total of 27 million 613 thousand. I, Mrs Lorencová and all Members, will deliver the break-up to the various associations as much as they have received and, if necessary, we will indicate to you what checks have been carried out there, for what purpose and with what outcome. I don't see anything secret about it. They are public funds, therefore there is no reason to conceal the purpose of this, whether it has been controlled or audited and with which result. Of course, you may be right, Madam President, but that will be the total amount for the whole Czech Republic, I have no information on this. That means, that could be the means, and now I'm really guessing, which maybe provides an MPSV or another organization. I don't want to call on my colleague Marksová here, but for us, $27 million. I will deliver an accurate breakdown to the individual entities receiving the subsidy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u110	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Zuzana Šánová, in her sixth interview, will interpel the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Michaela Marksová, on the amendment to the Social Insurance Act. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u111	Hello, everyone present. Madam Minister, you are introducing a new § 138b into the amendment to the sickness insurance law, in which paragraph 1 (a) you impose an obligation on midwifes, under the threat of committing an administrative offence, determining the expected date of birth on the prescribed form and other obligations relating thereto. The date of birth is determined most precisely by ultrasound examination during the first trimester of pregnancy. In practice, it is performed in the 10th to 11th weeks of pregnancy. According to the calculation according to the last month, the date of birth can only be determined ideally in absolute regularity. So, Madam Secretary, you assume that every midwife will own an ultrasound machine. Which, that's still feasible. But how will you ensure the expertise of a high school-educated midwife when assessing the outcome of the examination should always be a university-educated specialist, a doctor, and that is with a specialization? I also ask you how you can be sure that health insurance companies will enter into a contract with these business individuals, or whether they have already been consulted. [[16.30 hours]] I also ask whether you have this proposal discussed with the Czech Medical Chamber, with the Gynecological Professional Society and whether these agree with your proposal. What is most important to me is how in your proposal you deal with the responsibility of midwifes for possible complications when, in Section 67, you supplement the new paragraph 2 in which you place them on the level of doctors. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u112	Thank you. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Members of Parliament, I think this is a big misunderstanding. The proposed change responds to changes in health regulations. And the fact that a midwife can take care of a woman during pregnancy instead of a specialist doctor is clearly an adjustment in the regulations of the Ministry of Health. We weren't involved. We just responded to their changes to make it compatible. And as of today, a midwife can provide care for women. But according to the current regulation, she cannot confirm to such a woman the necessary information upon request of the maternity allowance. That's why we're only dealing with it because of the batch confirmation. This means that today, under the legislation of a pregnant woman who is in the care of a midwife, she must either wait for the birth certificate to be issued today, but that would be after the birth, and only then she can apply for a benefit, or she must seek a gynecologist who only confirms giving a stamp on the date of expected birth. And he postmarks on a request for maternity assistance, although she doesn't need to be in his care. We just consider the procedure to be administratively burdensome for both the doctors and the future mother. So we're actually just changing things so that in the future even midwifes can confirm the expected date of childbirth on the request for cash assistance in motherhood. It's actually an administrative act. And we're allowing the midwifes so that a woman can't just look for a doctor who maybe didn't even see her, or wait for the dose until she was born. And of course, it was consulted with the Ministry of Health, where, of course, according to the communication from the Ministry of Health, we did not really make it up, from those mentioned activities in the decree to be carried out by the midwife, it can be concluded that she has sufficient information to determine the expected day of childbirth. So if you have any of the doubts you've read here, then next time, head them to the Department of Health. In addition to the fact that we are based on the Ministry of Health, we are also based on the practice of the Czech Social Security Administration and the numerous initiatives of women who prefer the care of midwifes to gynecologists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u114	The honourable Member has an additional question. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u115	I don't even have a follow-up question, but the secretary shocked me. So today's practice is that a gynecologist can give a stamp to a woman or a certificate that he didn't even see during pregnancy and isn't in his care? Well, I guess we should really be dealing with the state of our health. And then I was surprised that you said here, I'm not going to quote exactly that the midwife has the information she needs. So you're putting information on the level of higher education?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u116	I'm sorry, Madam Secretary, please. There's nothing worse than a shocked MP. Please fix this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u117	These things that shock you in quotes come out, they are within the competence of the Ministry of Health. Period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u118	And we have a topic for the next interview, Madame, but that's next time. Today, Mr Leo Luzar, from his seventh interview, will also intersect the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs in importing cheap labour. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u119	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, I think we will both honor our common motto 'end of cheap work'. All the more I am struck by the tendency to decide politically on the import of cheap labor from abroad. Namely Ukraine. Pressure on cheap labour - and I allow myself to use the attribute of a slave-cheap labour - is possible from abroad justified in industries that call for cheap labour. But that, of course, reduces the pressure on wage growth. And from that title, I would like to know how the labour authorities will respond and where these workers will be mass-acquired. I personally think that the information that Mladá Boleslav is impatiently waiting, I mean the car manufacturer, for these workers, could force the trade unionists in Mladá Boleslav to rethink collective bargaining and their wage levels compared to German wages for the production of the same cars in Germany and in our country. Just importing cheap labor on such a massive scale as the Czech government has prepared, and now the political decision, not economic, could threaten this union effort in the slogan of the end of cheap work and could contribute to the expansion of unemployment in regions where there is currently a shortage of labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u120	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u121	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Members, of course we really do not want to organise some large, uncontrollable influx of cheap labour. And I agree with you that there is a great need to push for wage increases here, because, as you say, when the same cars are fitted in our country and Germany or when the cashier is sitting on the border with Austria on our side or on the Austrian side, the differences are enormous. And in my opinion, they are completely, completely unjustified and unwarranted. However, in my opinion, nothing like this is going to happen. Of course, we are still based on the Employment Act and the principles that our job seekers are preferably placed in job vacancies. And the job vacancies that the employer intends to occupy are required to report to the employment office first. Then it goes through so-called. a test of the labour market, when the relevant branch actually first really looks for jobs within the Czech job seekers. And as far as I know, there's a 30-day deadline. If he doesn't find it in 30 days, then only then can someone from the so-called. third country. And even ours are equal to the people of the EU Member States. So it is clearly our basic effort to activate the domestic workforce. And as for the Ukrajinec. We're still having fun here, we're still moving in this basic plan. Yes, because employers are now calling for labor. There are two projects of organised labour migration from Ukraine. The employers, specifically the specific companies, are assigned to the projects on the basis of the recommendations of the guarantors, who examine the fulfilment of all conditions for inclusion in the projects. Guarantees are Ministry of Industry and Trade, CzechInvest, Association of Industry and Transport, Chamber of Commerce, Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders, Association of Czech and Moravian Production Cooperatives. And within this... The first is a project for highly qualified employees from Ukraine. A total of 225 people from the total annual quota of 500 people were included for the first year of operation. They're especially IT people. And the second project for employees of middle and lower qualifications has to date applied for 1 317 workers. The total annual quota is 5 000 people. So you can see that even the annual quota is not fulfilled at the moment. And there are various types of insufficient professions. There's a real list of who it might be. In both cases, employers from all parts of the Czech Republic apply for entry into the projects. They are always relatively small numbers with each employer. Most of them are really in the order of individuals that employers ask for. [[16.40 hours]] And otherwise, yes, there are still some 378 thousand jobseekers registered here at the moment, and it's less than 63 thousand year on year, so it's reduced, but from this set it's important to realize that 60 thousand, which is also a small number, are people with disabilities, which we probably can't quite consider as equal in the labour market. Another 60,000 are the people who are currently working on the so-called. non-complicating employment means that the employment office pays health and social insurance for them, and they can earn half the minimum wage when we think that these 60,000 people are people who are obviously working, and apparently they have a lot to take advantage of, they have half the minimum wage in part, but the rest is probably black, and now in the novel, which is already waiting to be discussed here in the House, there is a measure to prevent it here. That's probably all for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u122	Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u123	Madam Secretary, you were talking about testing. I can imagine the situation - a stitch in the task of earning its 14,000 net, in a hundred percent performance of the task they have to work 12 hours a day. It's definitely a test, because no one's gonna sign up for this slave labor at the machine, and those people, the employers, they're gonna say they're short-staffed. But if testing this job here was about the employer trying to add in the salary or in the particular field that he's looking for, like, ten percent and advertising that he's looking for an employee with an addition compared to the current situation, and even then no one's applied for it, I'd see it as testing the possibility of employing people in inadequate professions. I have nothing against the employment of foreigners, but the problem is that without the pressure to raise wages in those areas where there is a shortage of employees, all the ways to bring cheap labor from abroad are sought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u124	Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u125	I believe that based on the figures that I have presented here, it is clear that there really is no large unorganized tide. Otherwise, I agree with you that there is a need for constant pressure on wage growth. The government is therefore constantly increasing minimum wage. This is actually what we are getting into conflict when, in my opinion, this increase should be much higher, it should go much faster, but even with the way it is, we are getting into a conflict with employers at the moment. And I have a really remarkable experience that in some businesses, on the one hand, employers tell you that they don't have people, and on the other hand, they call us too much minimum wage. So, of course, I think about employers like that, too, that they should increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u126	Thank you, Minister. In the eighth interview, Mr Roman Kubíček will intersect the absent Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček on the situation in the WHO. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, information on the unclear situation in the management of the Military Health Insurance Company has been going on for a long time, where the Board of Directors has been recalled or not recalled by the current Director of MUDr. Štein. At present, clients of a health insurance company who are concerned about this situation are turning to me and are not sure whether the WHO will comply with all its obligations and its medical care will be covered in full. Many of them are considering changing the health insurance company. Mass departure could lead to destabilization of this health insurance company. Dear Minister, could you correct what is the reality and current situation in the VOP and confirm whether or not its clients have something to worry about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u128	Thank you, the honourable Member will be answered in writing. Mr. Jiří Zlatuška will interpel Mr. Vice Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek on the matter of coma or invalidity of the information system R&D&I. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u129	Mr President, Mr absent Minister, I am following up on my last interview last week around a dysfunctional and law-defense state in connection with the information system for research, development and innovation. This system still does not allow updates to the data concerned. It is a condition that persists from shutting down this system in June. Since then, only part of its applications have been put into operation that allows viewing of data. It is a central activity register, a register of public competitions, a register of information on results and a central project register, but without the possibility to add data, in particular to add data relating to new projects. It is not possible to start new projects, to allocate funds to them. This condition lasts. Since this system collapsed in June, and the system is still not functional and does not comply with legal requirements, which was pointed out to you by the Czech Rectors' Conference in its resolution of 30 September this year, it is clearly a question of whether the system is in a coma from which you hope it will recover over time or whether what is being operated today is the permanent disability that the situation has gotten into, and you are never going to fix this condition here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u130	Thank you. The Member shall be answered in writing. Mrs Markéta Adamová will intersect the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs with regard to the law on material distress.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u131	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, we have long been dealing with the issue of the housing supplement, which has led me to interpel you in the past. The law on material distress has been undergoing several amendments during this parliamentary term alone. However, I have argued in the long run that it is not necessary to constantly amend the law and clarify it, because it would be enough for labour officials to actually work well, to carry out checks, and this can also be done with the existing regulation of the law. Yet much has not improved, trade in poverty only blooms. Lately, this problem has been moving from the residential hotels to the apartments. A petition was made in Jirkov in northern Bohemia For decent housing, which was discussed on 1 November of this year by the House's petition committee, which I am a member of. Directly with representatives of the municipality and petty, Association of owners of units and others, we have dealt with this situation. SVJ in a number of locations has a major problem with tenants of flats, which are owned by speculators making money on high amounts of housing supplements, because the owners of apartments collect benefits for tenants, but no longer pay for services or into a joint repair fund. The meeting was also attended by the Ombudswoman Anna Šabatová, who confirmed that according to the interpretation of the Law on material distress it is possible for the labour authorities to split the levy and part of it paid directly to the associations of the owners of the units directly to the services. Labour offices do not do so today, even though they could have long ago, and dishonest speculators continue to benefit from the situation. So I would like to ask you to instruct the employment authorities as quickly as possible to create a clear methodology according to which officials will follow and help eliminate the problem today not only with the residential hotels and problem tenants, but with the troubled apartment owners and their tenants, who fall on honest and decent people, the owners of the surrounding apartments. SVJ is often in front of collapse today because they are unable to pay debts for troubled neighbors. We should really help them and fear that people from troubled flats will be sued by dishonest apartment owners because, as the Ombudswoman said, they should not succeed in a lawsuit like this. [[The President draws attention to the time]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u132	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u133	[[He's talking with a cold voice.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Members of Parliament, I am actually grateful that a Member for a party like the TOP 09 - I do not know better with that voice today - says something about the people who work at the employment office and that it is necessary for them to actually control much more and better. [[coughs away]] So I would like to remind you that when we joined this government, we inherited a situation where Mr. Minister Drábek massacred the labour authorities for the TOP 09. Despite all the opposition of municipalities and reasonable people, he violently transferred the agenda of material distress from the municipalities to the authorities of work and, at the same time, drastically reduced the number of officials who did the agenda. So, in fact, he just made it impossible by reducing... First of all, it was an incredible mess, where physical computers moved, etc., etc. Second, of course, it made it impossible for the clerks to really have the capacity to do this and go to some really thorough social investigations because they were glad that they were sitting in the office and were able to somehow issue the benefits and at least elementaryally check the evidence. [[16.50 hours]] Since I joined, we've been asking the government to increase the number of clerks. We're still not there, in quotation marks, in the prenuptial state, and actually the last 300 people - and we're still not going to be at 100 percent - we're only promised from July 1st of the following year. And I would also like to point out that the whole poverty trade has started in the two previous right-wing governments, in those eight years, it hasn't started now and it hasn't started before under the ČSSD. I think that's pretty important. However, by the first amendment to the Law on material distress, we were able to regulate the hostels a lot. Some are already closing, some are disappearing, and the housing fee is going down. But you're right that the poor businessmen have found another way to move these people into privatized buildings, especially the building blocks, to normal vacant apartments. And unfortunately, while the hostels were able to regulate in total our own competence, so at the moment, when we talk about associations of owners of units etc., so it is no longer just the Ministry of Public Health, we simply need the synergies of others, especially the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Justice for the sake of the citizen, we need public health authorities, i.e. hygiene. I, at the government in the fall, or sometime in the summer, presented material Identification problems in housing, which also obliges the other departments to cooperate. For example, one of those revelations that still fascinates me is that sometime in 2006, hygiene standards disappeared on apartments. So today, if we have a completely devastated apartment, we have no way of saying we're not paying social benefits to this apartment. And there are other regulations, so that, for example, the association of owners of units is able to regulate who is moving there in some way. These are regulations that are absolutely common in Western Europe. And when I even made that thought, a media wave of criticism of some homeowners came down on me. So we should decide what we want here, too. However, what we can do now in our competence is that if things happen that also happen in Jirkov, when the owner of the apartment that rents it, doesn't actually bring money to the energy and service owners' association, especially the energy, we have already released our internal instruction in the autumn that it can be that the employment authorities can then pay directly to the association to make this right. And it's already started to practice in Vrchlabí at this point, and now we've brought it back to life, and we've told the authorities again because it looks like the instructions to some of them didn't reach the individual workplaces completely in time. So we've made sure they're really sure they're allowed to pay it that way again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u134	Does the Member have an additional question? He doesn't. Thank you. Mrs Olga Havlová will intersect the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec in the matter of delinquency on Bulovka. [[Secretary of the Interior off the microphone with a smile: I wasn't there.]] It wasn't the Minister, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, what has happened at the Na Bulovka Hospital has been spoken several times today. I'm not going to mention it anymore, because the Prime Minister quite described it to us in detail. But on this issue, I would like to ask you a few following questions. How will the asylum procedure take place despite the serious criminal offence committed by the applicant? In spite of the huge increase in the criminal activity of asylum seekers in Germany, France and Italy, why does the Ministry of the Interior not intend to initiate our bill to not grant asylum to persons who have committed a criminal offence or a selected offence during asylum proceedings? The media said that the young man is part of an unspecified integration program. So I want to ask you what kind of program this is, how many immigrants are involved and where the participants are staying. How many asylum seekers are currently in the Czech Republic and if it is possible to merge families in the acquisition of asylum. And if the entire family can be punished by the possible expulsion of a young man. And can the expulsion be limited in time? And what's the lowest time limit? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u136	Thank you, ma'am. Minister, I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u137	Mr President, honourable Members, the system of quotas by relocation and resttlement, as approved by the European Commission - and the Czech Republic has been overvoted on this issue, i.e. We did not agree with the project itself - it does not include Afghanistan's nationality. That is, for this reason, it is no longer possible for Afghánec to be under some program of the Ministry of Interior in the framework of resttlement and reallocation. As regards the amendment of the Asylum Act, as proposed by the Dawn, there is, in our view, a contradiction with international law. I've been saying that around here since we were discussing this. And all I can offer Members and Members is some technical assistance in the preparation of the standard, perhaps some consulting assistance from the Ministry of the Interior, so that we do not get into conflict with the fact that then the proposals must be de facto negated on our part, because they are contrary to international law. I do not remember exactly what it was derived from, Madame, but there is no problem finding out and sending it again. I don't have a problem with that at all, and I'll take care of it. Regarding those programmes you are talking about in 2016, and it is currently up to 9 November, the Czech Republic has received 1 281 asylum applications, of which 34 percent are Ukraine, Iraq 11 %, Cuba 6 %, Syria and China 5 percent. The increased number of requests from Iraq is linked to the implementation of the relocation initiative of the Generation 21 Foundation Fund. At present, this project is halted. And I can add that during the same period last year it was 1 289 asylum applications, of which 46 percent were Ukrajinec, 9 percent Kubánec, 9 % Syřan, 5% Vietnamec, 3% Armenia. This is a year-on-year decline in asylum seekers of around 1%. If the family comes together and one of the members fulfils the grounds for asylum, asylum will also be granted to the remaining members of the family, i.e. one person in the family, where family ties are proven and are therefore not fictitious family members, is entitled to asylum, receives this asylum and his family - wife, underage children, etc. If the family doesn't come together, they can apply for a family merger abroad under the Alien Residence Act. And here the law of the European Union is reflected. If it were granted to a person called the main asylum, so it meets the conditions for the family to merge. If this asylum is taken away, it can, of course, be taken away from the rest. That means, it's not that the person who's entitled gets asylum, and if he's taken away from it, it's that the others can only stay here because they were connected to this person in the first place. The Penal Code - and this is the last question you asked - states that the sentence of expulsion can be granted for one year to 10 years or even for an indefinite period. It depends on the circumstances of the case in question. The sentence of expulsion then applies only to the convicted one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u138	Please, Madame, your supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u139	I won't ask any more questions. I would just like to thank the Minister for his helpfulness with regard to the asylum law. I would like to be able to participate in this and put it together, because you can see that the situation is getting worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u140	Thank you, Madame. Let's move on to the 12th interpellation. Mr Roman Procházka will intersect the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman on new national cultural monuments. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, national cultural monuments are the rarest monuments on our territory, unless, of course, we count on UNESCO monuments. I wonder if you plan to expand this list of national cultural monuments this year, and if so, in what approximate timetable. And if you could tell us which monuments, for example, might be involved. I think that there are many such wonderful monuments here that deserve to be included in this prestigious list.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u142	Please, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u143	Mr President, colleagues, honourable Members, the Ministry of Culture has prepared, in accordance with the Government's legislative work plan for 2016, a proposal for a government regulation on the declaration of certain cultural monuments for national cultural monuments. The material will be submitted to the external commentary proceedings in the next few days, after which I will submit this proposal in December to the Government of the Czech Republic for discussion and approval. National cultural monuments are declared by the Government pursuant to § 4 para. 1 of Law No. 20/1987 Coll., on State Monument Care, as amended, which states that cultural monuments, which form the most important part of the cultural wealth of the nation, are declared by the Government of the Czech Republic as national cultural monuments. This year, the Scientific Council of the Ministry of Culture assessed and recommended a total of 18 real estate cultural monuments and files for the declaration. A declaration for national cultural monuments is proposed for example. The following cultural monuments and their collections: Secondary Engineering School in Mladá Boleslav, Chebská falc, Devilish cemetery in Prague with an honorary burial ground of executed and tortured political prisoners and members of the second and third resistance, the castle in Brandýs nad Labem, the Lucerna Palace in Prague, the monastery in Louka u Znojmo and many others. You can see on this list that these are objects that come from different historical periods, but what connects them is precisely the fact that they play a very important role in our history and our cultural heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u144	Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u145	Perhaps not so much a question as a thank you, because I know many of the monuments that the Minister has appointed personally, and I think he deserves it. I was most pleased with the castle of Cheb, a historical object whose history began to be written at the beginning of the 12th century. His history is mine. associated with the powerful family of Štauf, from which came a number of Roman-German kings and emperors. And it was one of them, the famous Fridrich Barbarossa, who had the original object rebuilt into imperial falc in the late 12th century, and it is basically the only representative of this type of castle architecture in our country. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u146	Mrs Marie Pěnčíková will intersect Minister Marian Jurečka on trade relations with China. It's hard if they don't let him in. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u147	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, sir, once again absent, I will be brief. The Agrarian and Food Chamber has criticized you for endangering the export of our products to China with your behavior. I don't want to discuss whether this will eventually happen or not, however, you must have been aware of the reaction your behavior and your statements may have caused. So I have two questions: Was it really worth it that you jeopardized the possibility of further cooperation with China? And my second question: You have already managed to complicate the position of our farmers and food professionals on the Russian market, now China. So I'd like you to provide me with a list of countries you want to close for our producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u148	The lady will be answered in writing and perhaps with a list. Mrs Alena Nohavová, who will interpelise the Minister of Education Kateřina Valachová on the subject of physical health education, will give another interview. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u149	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, physical fitness, which is linked to regular exercise, is declining in today's schoolchildren. Children of the school age are becoming more obese, have problems associated with proper posture, other physical problems, and are often exempted from physical education for their health problems. This eliminates them from the movement activities of the school. On the contrary, these children should be more worked out. Of course, it's different from normal physical education. To do this should be health - care education, with which it is very bad in today's schools. And I don't think they're in most schools anymore. Two hours of physical education is a tradition, while the Ministry seeks a third. I'm not against it. Of course, they should be of good quality. But what are we going to do about children who are released from physical education for health reasons? And so I ask: Madam Secretary, what is the current situation with physical education? Are you considering improving it? And will it be introduced again in schools? And as an additional question, I was wondering if you were considering verbal evaluation of education, not only physical but also other education, because I think that innate dispositions are predestined for different performances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u150	Thank you. The Member shall be answered in writing. We Members, too, could take this to heart. Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová will intersect Mr Milan Chovanec on official posts. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm interrogating you on the matter of official residences at the Bureau. I am talking specifically about the People's Recording Act, which allows citizens to apply for permanent residence at the competent authorities of municipalities and cities on the basis of administrative procedures in progress. Unfortunately, this practice makes it possible, above all, to abuse this legislative step literally in some regions. The municipalities and cities are de facto losing any awareness of these people. It is out of reach and it is also one of the basic tools for escaping executions and other authorities. Let me give you a specific example from Most. In total, the city has about 66 000 inhabitants, of which 1,850 citizens have a registered permanent residence at City Hall. The estimate of officials is that at least 80 per cent of these citizens are thus avoiding executions, paying fees, etc., as I have already mentioned. Of course, there is an effort on the part of the relevant officials to track these citizens down. All possible institutions such as the Labour Office, the Police of the Czech Republic and the financial authorities are being used. Dear Minister, is your ministry preparing an amendment to that law so that it is no longer possible to develop this practice for some citizens? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u152	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u153	Mr President, honourable Members, the Ministry of the Interior is aware of this problem, which is enshrined in the current practice, and it can indeed be said that many abuse, or even abuse, their permanent residence at the address of the municipality or so-called. special matrices. The Ministry of the Interior has prepared a bill amending Act No. 133/2000 Coll., on the registration of residents and birth numbers and on the amendment of certain laws, i.e. the Act on the registration of residents, as amended, and other related laws, in which it is proposed that, if a citizen registered with the details of the place of permanent residence at the headquarters of the reporting office, which is usually the municipal office or at the registered office of a special register, this information should be indicated in the information system of the register of residents. It's not possible, if the person has his ID card, to find out that the address he lists as a permanent residence is the office's record. And then they are very difficult to enforce all their actions towards these people. This bill is registered as House Press 909, was adopted on 19 October 2016 at the first reading at the 50th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. As for the question that we don't know the movement of these people, that these people are very difficult to detect. Unfortunately, the permanent residence address is an indication that is only registered. It is not ordered by law, people do not have to report permanent residence, so they do not have to abstain from it. If there is a change, let us put this vision towards this issue, there is a need for a change in legislation. The government doesn't want to go down that road. It is possible that the next Chamber of Deputies, or another government, will change it so that the permanent residence address, which will be registered in the ID card, will have to correspond really with the address where one is staying. If that is not the case, he will have to sign up within a specified period of time. But we're not going that way yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u154	Thank you. The Member is satisfied. Mr Marek Černoch, who will also interpel the Minister of the Interior on the subject of the Government Immigration Programme, will give the 16th interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, my question relates to the incident on Bulovka, the sexual assault of the Afghánec woman on a nurse. According to media information, some 19 - year - old Afghánec have no permanent residence in our country. It is therefore an asylum seeker, although today the Prime Minister said that Afghánec is here illegally, that is, information from which we can choose from, as it is. I would like to ask you, there has been talk of the so-called government migration program in which this person is included. I would like to ask what a government migration program is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u156	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u157	Mr President, honourable Members, I do not quite know when the court stated that the competent court, which may have given reference to the person concerned, stated that it was part of some kind of government programme that it had in mind. Again, the programs that the Ministry of the Interior supervises, i.e. the system of relocations and resttlements, do not include the citizens of Afghan origin, that is, it is imperative to state that in these projects the Afghánec could not have been. The Prime Minister has requested information from us today on the status of the person concerned. I can say here that he is not currently residing illegally in the territory of the Czech Republic because he was therefore assigned a status. But he's not a man running a government program managed by the Ministry of the Interior, so-called. Relocation, resttlement, that is, to put it simply so called. quotas. In the framework of this project, it is not on the territory of the Czech Republic, i.e. in the project under the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u158	Please, Mr. Ambassador, do you have an additional question?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u159	So I would like to ask you once again what the government migration programme is. What does that mean? What is it financed from? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u160	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u161	With all due respect, honourable Member through Mr President, I do not know exactly what the court in question had in mind when he said that. Perhaps it would be necessary for the press spokesperson of the court, or the judge himself to comment on what he is based on, what he means by that. I'm here to speak for the Home Office, which is responsible for, say, three areas. One area is legal migration, which means coming to the Czech Republic as standard. This guy isn't in this program. The second, i.e. illegal migrants crossing Czech borders, where they are captured and placed in detention unless they subsequently apply for asylum. He's not there either. Then we are in the system of relocation, which means moving asylum seekers from other countries outside the territory of the European Union - sorry, relocations are Italy, Greece is not there either. And then the resettlement project is exactly what I was talking about a moment ago, and that's moving to the Czech Republic on the basis of this project, integration into society, and it's not there either. And those two last mentioned programmes, namely quotas, are not for the citizens of Afghanistan. I don't want to call again. I almost did it with my colleague Marksová Tominová a while ago. We have the Minister of Justice here, maybe if we ask him politely to clarify what he meant by the court, then the whole media campaign is underway, so if the court can specify what he means, then I can respond here, or another minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u162	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Jiří Valenta will interpel in the 17th interpellation of Mr. absent Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček in the case of foreign workers in the Czech Republic and their increase in cases of tuberculosis. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent minister, can you make clear to me the steps that the Ministry of Health will take to minimise the risk of tuberculosis, which is now beginning to rise dangerously as a result of the work agencies' activities, which, in thousands, import workers from the most risky countries, such as Ukraine, Romania, Moldova, Lithuania, or Latvia, according to the WHO's annual updated ranking? In these countries, there are now 40 tuberculosis patients per 100,000 inhabitants. We've got six so far, but it looks like it's gonna get worse. For example, in Pilsen, where I come from, there is a huge amount of imported people working and, at the same time, an increased number of people with tuberculosis is becoming registered in a causal context. The last case recently captured was a Rumun working at the Borgers company in Letcan, which for a long time moved among hundreds of its co-workers. Minister, how is it that aliens from high-risk countries are not required to enter a lung X-ray or a specific test to detect the disease? Why isn't the doctors actively offered vaccinations for their children? I found out from terror that only now, when the number of infected begins to rise in the Pilsen Region and when it is almost too late, this is what the Pilsen health caregivers are proposing to the chief health care professional. Can your ministry really make a stronger effort to protect our country's citizens from such dangerous diseases? Is there any meaningful cooperation in this regard with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs that should have the activities of the employment agencies in its sense? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u164	Mr Ludvík Hovorka will be intersecting Minister Dan Ťok in the 18th interpelation on the date of opening the D8 and construction of the Prackovická estacade. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u165	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, in connection with the fact that the deadline for opening the D8 motorway has been announced, and it is widely known that the slope at Pracovice is not completely completely restored and there is a movement of the pillars of the workstation, when the pillars are sinking, slowly falling and swinging into the side, I would like to ask whether it is real for the motorway to be put into operation as you have declared, or rather, the pillars must be caught by pilots, because the current pilots are too short, reaching about 10 metres in length, according to my information, with the sliding surface somewhere about 30 metres or more, meaning that they must be caught by far longer pilots than they are currently. Therefore, I would like to ask how far is the real term for opening the highway you have declared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u166	Thank you, honourable Member. He'll be answered in writing. Mr Jan zahradník will interpel the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec on the settlement of comments on the amendment of Act No. 114/1992. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u167	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I really wanted to turn to Minister Brabec with such a last call or an intervention before a possible vote tomorrow on the amendment to Act No. 114. I wanted to ask him questions - for example, whether he knew that there was no proper evaluation of the effects of regulation, i.e. the evaluation of RIA, on the proposal for an amendment to the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act. Whether he is aware that an environmental impact assessment of this amendment has not been carried out, i.e. an assessment known as the EIA. Finally, I wanted to ask him whether he knew that out of the 38 projects presented in Sumava about two years ago, 25 of them had a significant negative impact on at least one Natura site, i.e. that the projects were doomed. Finally, I wanted to ask if, despite all this, he still wants to vote tomorrow at the end of the third reading on the amendment to Law 114. In my opinion, it should not do so and should postpone the vote. That's what I wanted to invite him to interpellation. Unfortunately, I can't do it personally, so at least by reading it on a microphone and a stenographic record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u168	Thank you, honourable Member. Mrs Jana Hnyková will interpel the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok on blue zones in Prague in the 20th interpellation. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u169	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, in the city's parts of Prague's capital, there are growing blue parking zones like mushrooms after rain. Zones have recently spread to other urban areas, and this trend is about to continue. This situation, however, brings great problems to disabled fellow citizens who are holders of a ZTP or ZTP/P licence outside other road users. They cannot stop on blue zones, where offices, banks, doctors, pharmacies and similar institutions are located. So all they have to do is stop and then expect a fine from the officers or simply not go to the doctor. It can then be very easy for a bailiff to ring the door of these fellow citizens for outstanding fines. The association of disabled people in the Czech Republic has already appealed to the mayor for this problem, who told them by her advisor that she was unable to help them on this matter without any change of legislation. They then approached you, Minister, twice, unfortunately in the second case without a response. That is why I ask you: Do you realise this situation and prepare corrective measures in the form of an amendment to the law so that our handicapped fellow citizens can visit their doctors, authorities, without being threatened with high fines? You don't think it's a paradox when card holders can stand for no standing, but not in blue zones? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u170	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs Věra Kovářová is not present, so her interpellation is failing. Mr Simeon Karamazov is present and his interpelling to Minister Dan Ťok will be a matter of bypassing I/36 communication. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u171	Dear Minister, 10 10. 2016 was delivered to your ministry petition of citizens who highlight their dissatisfaction with the state of transport on I/36 communication, which leads from the exit from the D11 motorway via Lázně Bohdaneč towards Pardubice. A letter was sent to you in March on this matter and from the representatives of the Pardubice Region. The citizens and representatives of the municipalities concerned point to the current long-term non-compliant state. Due to the absence of a planned but still unrealized bypass, residents are exposed to an excessive number of passing cars and, in particular, trucks. The situation with the construction of roads in the Pardubice Region is long-term unsatisfactory, for example the many times mentioned problematic construction of the D35 motorway, a matter in which I have already intersected you at the last meeting of the House. However, this situation is also specific because it directly affects the only spa town in the region, so the problem is not only affected by local residents, as well as by tourists and spa guests. Therefore, I ask you: Have you personally come to know the contents of this petition? In your opinion, has the situation changed since March of this year when you received comments from the management of the Pardubice Region on this matter? And what concrete steps do you plan to take on this matter? Can you specify, for example, the date when work on this construction could start? Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u172	Thank you, honourable Member. Mrs Nina Nováková will intersect the present Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán in the case of judicial experts. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, my question concerns judicial experts, more precisely their qualifications and responsibilities, and even more precisely judicial experts in the field of child care. In the last two months, two mothers have turned to me, and I know about six other cases. These mothers, as part of the process of entrusting a child to one parent, are essentially fighting to ensure the really fundamental needs and rights of the child. In this well-known circle of the OSPOD - court - possibly judicial expert - judicial expert opinion requested by the court is the responsibility of you, Minister, virtually. Your resort, beyond the scope within which forensic experts work. It turns out that a few years ago, established liberalisation, which could have been positive, means the possibility of one party entering its own expert opinion, misses the effects, because the court does not have to take it into account. Of course, I do not want to question the independence of the courts, but it is logical for the child's sake to use the opinion that is more relevant, i.e. more qualified. My conclusion is: Are you going to change the state in which an expert opinion is not only processed by a psychiatrist with a psychiatrist's certificate, but by a child psychiatrist? I know these pediatric psychiatrists are few, but do they use the courts, or can they use the lists of experts, even from other regions? Because we know that the lists are linked to the place where the expert judge is present, where they are reported. If mothers try to complain about all possible institutions, 30, rather 60, or 90 days of settlement may not mean much in the life of an adult, but in the life of a small child there may be permanent damage to the health of the mental ones. So are you going to change this framework?
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u174	Please, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u175	Mr President, honourable Members, first of all, whether the courts can use judges from different regions, etc. Yes, on our website www.justice.cz is the central list of experts regardless of where they are registered. Where they are registered, it is important only from the point of view of who exercises administrative authority over them, but experts work throughout the country and can choose experts from anywhere. It is in our law part of the independence of the judge to choose to say what opinion he wants, whether he wants one at all and in what situation. So we can't order him to choose an expert in one or another field, typically in the field of pediatric psychiatry or child psychology. That's his responsibility. If you're asking if we're offering the experts the appropriate specialization, then yes. Even the specializations are a number of, and even so today, because the specializations were created quite randomly or registered and named quite randomly, that we need to make order in this. And that brings me to the second part -- yes, as you probably know, we are about to have an extensive change in the legal framework in which experts and knowledge even move. We're going to organize the whole thing and get it under control. It is a law which is already in interdepartmental commentary proceedings and among others. It also repeals the possibility for civil disputes or proceedings to bring the party itself an expert opinion, because this, what you are saying, is just one of the problems it brings. These assessments do not meet with sufficient confidence and, in fact, weaken the importance of the expert opinion at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u176	Thank you. The question is complementary to that of my Member. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u177	Dear Minister, thank you for your reply, but I was a little concerned that the courts will actually have even more enhanced authority in who they choose, who will process the expert opinion. This means a sense of defenselessness for parents who really have a real fear for their child in the custody process, so there it seems to me that it is still a chance for a better means or a better remedy - I know that this is not an appeal in the true sense of the word, but it seems to me that the chance is even lower. I do not feel that it would be necessary to strengthen in this respect completely for the sake of the courts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u178	Please, Minister, your follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u179	Well, Madam President, our system is based on trust in the judge. After all, we assume that the judge is impartial and that he is someone who understands his work and does it honestly. I dare say from here that this is the case in the vast majority of cases. If that is not the case, we have remedies, real remedies. With regard to the expert opinions that the parties carry, the experience with this is extremely bad, because the result is that each party brings its expert opinion, which the judge does not know in what circumstances it was created, how the expert was chosen. We know from practice that lawyers or those parties go around a number of experts, asking how it would turn out for them when they choose who makes their assessment as they wish. So, logically, they don't trust those opinions very much, and all they're gonna do is give a third expert opinion anyway, and instead of having one that an expert did from the start, and we're trying to get the experts to gain credibility by strengthening their control, that means that every expert should be reasonably credible. So it's gonna be a situation where there's gonna be one opinion, and that opinion will be made by an expert appointed by an independent court. I think it's better than having a trial of three, and then it makes everyone think it's untrustworthy, because every opinion says something different. That's a condition I don't think is right. But it's one of the paragraphs of the novel. You'll have an extensive opportunity here to debate this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u180	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Marta Semelová will interpel the Minister of Education Kateřina Valachová on the matter of Villa Milada.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u181	Thank you. Madam Secretary, on the basis of the information that has reappeared in the media after a while, I would like to ask you about the current situation regarding the First Republic Villa Milada in Prague 8. The building has been owned by the Ministry of Education since 1978 and has been pursued by Charles University, for example, in recent years, which wanted to build a campus for its students. But the free transfer was never successful. In 2010, the Ministry of Finance did not approve a free transfer of the villa from the Ministry's assets to the university because there was allegedly no proof of public interest. In the meantime, Milada's villa was quite dilapidated, and the university doesn't want any more ruins. In the past, squatters were busy, who, according to their comments, tried to draw attention to the fact that the long-term care of a proper economy does not care about many of its objects and leaves them to decay without any interest. That is certainly true. Just remember only the most exhilarating examples from Prague - the Clinic building in Prague 3, the historical Cibulka of the 14th century Cibulka in Košířích, the house on Albertov, etc. Many of these buildings could serve the public interest. There could be a nursery, kindergarten, whose capacity is insufficient, school associations, centres for seniors, social care centres, etc. Seven years have passed since the dramatic event when the police led the last squatters out of Milady's villa. Nothing's changed since then. Citizens point out crime in the vicinity of the villa, the building continues to decay and its poor technical condition is a risk to local residents. What are you waiting for? For when he's in such a state, when it'll have to be demolished and the property handed over to developers? And that's not just about Milada's villa. I therefore ask if the Ministry of Education intends to deal with this situation when and how it will be settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u182	Thank you. The Member shall be answered in writing. Member Leo Luzar will interpel the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek in the case of representatives of the state in OKD. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u183	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, my question is more about 50 percent to your ministry, because, as I have learned, there are representatives of both the Ministry of Finance and your ministry in the bodies of the company. My question concerns the task of these representatives in this company, how often they fulfill their obligation to be in this company, how often they communicate with your ministry, how they are being tasked and what information they are currently bringing. It has a pretty serious connection to the future of OKD. There are talk of different schemes, different solutions, therefore the state's participation in these bodies has two levels. The first plane is an information plane. So I assume their job is to provide information. But the second plane is also finding the way of this company for the future. And here we come to the level of possible involvement of the state in a more significant intervention of the state in the solution in this society and we come to the level, let's say, business or business about the future of OKD. Here their functions as representatives of the state in the bodies of the company could be seen as a specific, allow me to see this dimension, the influence direction of the state in the institutions and theoretically could also be seen as a certain co-responsibility of the state in this society. I do not want to anticipate, but maybe even in the future some claims that might be directed towards the state in the context of some balancing. Therefore, I am very interested in the functioning of these representatives, their mandate and their task. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u184	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u185	honourable Member, honourable Members. Dear Member, thank you for your question about the functioning of the OKD. Yes, it is so that when the loan financing agreement of 700 million was signed. CZK via PRISCO, according to one of the conditions specified in that agreement, four persons may be nominated per state, the nominated person being designated by the creditor for the performance of the function. It is a function of a financial director or similar function directly subject to the board of directors or individual member of the board of directors of the debtor, the head of the accounting office directly subject to the entity as well as to the previous function, the member of the board of directors of the debtor and the member of the supervisory board of the debtor. The question you were right about was that 50 per cent goes to the Ministry of Industry and Trade, because at the moment it is so that these people are appointed through the Ministry of Finance, which has appointed a financial director in relatively recent times, namely a similar function, and a member of the board of directors of the debtor. At this point, the Ministry of Industry and Trade has selected the head of accounting, which we should propose to the Minister of Finance in the next few days to appoint him through PRISCO. I have to admit that at this point we do not yet have a member of the supervisory board of the debtor, because I have to say that in this complicated situation, in which OKD is located, it is very difficult to find the person who is competent, knows what is going on and, at the same time, has not been involved in some operations in the past and has no direct responsibility for which, in some cases, maybe - I do not know - but the risk is there - could also be prosecuted. Last but not least, it is not quite clear how long the function is for, because the company is in insolvency, now there is an attempt to reorganize, is the first attempt on December 12, when it will probably be quite difficult to make it. I don't know. I don't want to anticipate. Then there's another possibility that it will extend for another four months. If it doesn't work out, there's a risk of bankruptcy, we all know that basically. So this is how the situation stands in terms of the actual situation. From the point of view of the task - yes, I take that remark or your interpellation in the sense that we have to work very carefully to avoid creating any additional commitments that could be used to generate any additional obligations of the State or, if necessary, used in litigation or arbitration. [[17.40 hours]] At the same time, I would like to say that the appointment of these people is quite loosely linked to what will be in the OKD, because here the effect of these people is linked to one thing, i.e. credit financing of 700 million. Crowns. And in the optimal case, these people are supposed to keep an eye on the money that the state put there through PRISCO. I'd like to say here that the money has been spent 150 miles so far. The good news is that the way the state stood up for the company, so improved the behaviour of suppliers, customers, payment morals, and thus they got a little bit of working capital back. With regard to the possibility of a future solution, the situation is much more complicated there, because it seems that it would be necessary to secure some kind of closure, perhaps not only the Paskov shafts, but also Lazy and Darkov, perhaps with some delay. It is a question of where the money for the severance and technical disposal of these shafts will be taken. Of course, then I guess the rest of the OKD would be for sale. What paradoxically does not make things any easier for us at the moment is the increase in the price of coal. Because if it were the way it was before, that prices were still falling, I imagine there would be some kind of public aid to justify it. But at the moment the prices of coal rise, and so far it hasn't shown much to the economy, because we have the signals from the so-called spot markets, that is, where it trades on the stock market, not the prices of contracts. However, it is assumed that the prices that are fixed on a quarterly basis are a practice in the field, it will all be reflected in January next year, and then we will know what impact it will have on the functioning of the OKD. We will have to take all of this into consideration when designing a solution, to justify whether or not there will be any public aid and what it will be used for. I'd like to add that 700 miles. it is definitely not applicable to any severance pay, because there is defined what the company can use it for, and the solution of social programs in the set of options is not. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u186	Thank you, Minister. You explained it so well that I let you talk a little longer. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u187	Thank you for your answer, Minister. You have touched on your answer to all the questions I have been interested in on this matter. I would just like to say, perhaps, that it would be worth considering in the government that this responsibility should go to one ministry and not be divided into two ministries. This two-track communication could be a problem in the future. So here I would intercede for your ministry to be the Gesture Ministry of this solution. And the other thing, whether it would not be worth having an analysis of the possible development of the coal market as such, because the information that penetrates the public, makes the euphoria that the coal industry's crisis is ending, on the other hand, it is pointed out that only the short-term and closing dates of the Paskov mine and others are already approved in quotation marks on 31 January next year. So I would very much like you to work on such an analysis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u188	Thank you, honourable Member. The Minister is interested in an additional answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u189	I would just like to add that, of course, I would like the competence of one ministry. As far as the forecast for coal prices is concerned, this is something that goes beyond the possibilities of the MIT. However, we have a proposal on how to resolve this, because frankly, today it is that coal prices affect global affairs, what happens in Indonesia, China, the United States. Now, recently, the GDRC, the Committee on Reforming China's Economy, has decided to limit the number of days of mining in China's mines, and thus there has been a blackout in coal mining, China has started to buy, and thus the prices have increased, there has been a shortage of coal. At the same time, the last signal is that the committee has increased the number of days again, so maybe it won't be so dramatic with the price increase. But what is important: We have a relatively close cooperation with the OECD energy agency, and its president, Mr Fatih Birol, will come to Prague about halfway through December and we will discuss it with him. I think this is the most reliable source of information about the world's prices for coal, which makes a very professional OECD agency, which, by its global reach, is much better than the MIT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u190	Thank you, Minister. Mr Roman Procházka will interpel in the 26th interpellation of the Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček on the transfer of the spa facility Mánes in Karlovy Vary. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister. My particular concern is the spa facility Mánes in Karlovy Vary. In 2004, then Minister of Health Rath transferred it to Na Homolce Hospital. Director Shubrt and subsequently The cared in the hospital did not invest anything and the current director also apparently continues to leave the hospital to decay. And now there's information that maybe there's going to be a transfer or an organizational change, and the hospital is supposed to be transferred to the hospital Na Bulovce. The treatment room is situated in a beautiful part of Karlovy Vary in the forest, in the surrounding area there are new lavish houses, there is a park with a cruise restaurant, pond, Orthodox church and more. It's an ideal place for such a hospital to prosper. I ask you to communicate the reason why you ordered the management of two Prague hospitals, Na Homolce and Na Bulovce, the preparation of the transfer of facilities that fall within the health sector of subsequent and preventive care. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u192	Thank you, honourable Member. He'll be answered in writing. Mrs Alena Nohavová will interpel Mrs Kateřina Valachová on the education of nurses. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u193	Mr President, I am withdrawing my intervention because I cannot wait a month for an answer. I wanted to deal with the matter with the Minister right away.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u194	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Ludvík Hovorka will intersect Minister Svatopluk Němeček on violation of the rules of competition of pharmaceutical distributors. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u195	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, more and more pharmacists are complaining about the unwillingness of manufacturers and distributors to supply medicines to pharmacies. An example may be Clexane, when its manufacturer, Sanofi, and its distribution refused to supply pharmacies with this medicinal product. The whole system works in the Czech Republic by choosing a single distributor, delivering it to hospitals and hospital pharmacies and adding it to its chain pharmacies for a good price. He refuses to deliver the medicine to other pharmacies, or he will deliver the medicine, but at a high price, so with an additional fee or a high surcharge. Non-string pharmacies and their patients are unlucky because prescribed Clexane cannot confuse the pharmacy with another one of the heparins. The pharmacy must therefore reject the patient or the patient will leave alone for a high fee. The result is that chain pharmacies are growing turnover, but non-strings fall into loss and eventually disappear, or they will have to sell or write the chain. However, this is an example of abuse of the dominant position of the producer and its selected distributor, which should have been dealt with by the Office for the Protection of Competition a long time ago. It was only after a complaint by the Czech Pharmacy Chamber of the ÚOHS that he unlawfully assessed the relevant market at the level of the ATC 3 group and this trick led the company and distributor out of the obligation of the dominant player, or monopolist on the market. May the current unbearable situation be resolved by Mr Běhounek's amendment, but I ask you, how is it possible that the government and the ministry have refused to protect competition and equal conditions in the pharmaceutical market for so long? Do you consider it right that the force of the law promotes a condition that could be achieved even if the Government and the Ministry led the Office for the Protection of Competition of pharmaceutical companies to comply with the competition law? Do you consider it right that Members are not familiar with the opinion of the Authority on Mr Běhounek's amendment which was sent directly to you personally before the vote? Next I'd like to -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u196	I'm terribly sorry, please, very briefly, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u197	And, of course, the other thing that is problematic is DTP channels, where the company only supplies central medicines to certain pharmacies and through pharmacies and through distributors, drug returns are being realized. I'd like to know what the Ministry will do about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u198	Thank you. Mr Karel Rais will intersect the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán on the personnel situation of the Regional Court in Brno. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u199	Good evening, everyone. Minister, the situation at the Regional Court of Brno is very unhappy in terms of staffing in the area of the management of the courts, especially the Vice-Presidents of the sections. The President of the Regional Court in Brno, Dr. Bořek, has an vacant post of Vice-Presidents of sections for almost the entire current term of office, i.e. three years. Nor is it currently known that any tender procedure has been drawn up at that position. In view of the time required for the publication and the course of the selection procedure for the positions in question, it is clear that the current vacancy situation will continue for a number of months. It is not the only problem of this missing or unhappy personnel policy in this court. I would also like to add to the question of completing the situation of judges at the various sections of the Regional Court in Brno. The current issue, which is discussed at various levels of Czech justice, is also indicated by the conclusions of last week, namely of 4. The 11th meeting of the 26th Chamber of Professional Organizations of Czech Judges, the Judging Union of the Czech Republic, in Mikulov, which also calls for a change of tender procedures to the places of judicial officials. It is said that the current adjustment does not preclude the application of the selection committee. My question is how, when and whether you will ever address this current unhappy state at the Regional Court of Brno as Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u200	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u201	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to start a little wide. As regards the appointment of judicial officials at the level of Vice-Presidents of the Courts, we have shared jurisdiction there. That means I can't just appoint a Vice-President myself. I have to get a motion from the Chairman. As the President is to proceed, he regulates our instructions, which, of course, is more of a good recommendation than a binding advice. We're running into an area where we're already getting the independence of judges and courts. Thus, our interventions cannot be particularly forceful there. That doesn't mean I'm happy with the situation and I'm not doing anything about it. Just yesterday, I had quite a long talk in person with the President of this court. In his defense, I have to say that he came as new to the collective, not from the region, and therefore it took him some time to orient himself enough to know who he really wanted as his vice-chairman, because he could choose there according to our instructions as he wanted. It's happened now. He sent us three suggestions. I named one person. In two cases, however, I did not name the Vice-President. Not because I thought they were inappropriate candidates, but precisely because they were persons who had long been appointed Vice-President without being appointed, which is unfortunately quite common, or was quite common practice in our judiciary. But we have declared war on her because we consider it a way to circumvent the rules for appointments and, in particular, the length of the term of office and the inability to repeat the term of office. For this reason, I called on the President to do so, and he will do so so so that, although he would not have to, he will announce a tender to confirm that they are indeed the best candidates, and it has been transparent. So the situation at the courthouse isn't ideal, but it's getting better, and I think the problem will be fixed. If I still have a second... [[President: Two and a half minutes yet, Minister.]] Oh, I'm the one who could have talked more. As far as the conclusions of the Judging Union are concerned. With them, except for one small detail, where I think it is not possible from the point of view of the law, I completely identify. And we are considering that today's, which in itself is progress, we have modified the selection procedure so that the committees that are selected in the selection procedures will not be appointed ad hoc for specific officials, which can actually lead to some abuse, but there will exist as a permanent committee where the problem should fall away. Overall we assume, respectively. rather, the Ministry assumes that it will not be able to do so in this parliamentary term, but it assumes that the way we have gradually set up and set up a practice compared to when my predecessor came into office and when it was a total favour, so we should practice in the next parliamentary term, or the Ministry should transform it into legal regulation in the next parliamentary term and thus definitively fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u202	Thank you. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u203	I'd like to thank the Minister and then ask him if the bracelet he has on his leg is a test bracelet, or if it's a regional court decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u204	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u205	I haven't done anything yet, and it's a test.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-10-ps2013-050-10-007-262.u206	This happens to some who have done nothing wrong, Minister of Justice. Unfortunately, this was the last interpelation, because according to the Rules of Procedure of the last interpelation can be submitted at the latest at 17.55. It's 17.56. Thank you. Have a good evening. I'm ending this meeting day. The House meeting will continue tomorrow, that is, on Friday, when the third reading of the Nature and Landscape Act will be the first item in our negotiations - paragraph 184. Have a good night.
