ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u1	7. Government bill amending Act No. 110/1997 Coll., on food and tobacco products and on the amendment and addition of certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 687/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft law will also be introduced in this case by the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u2	Thank you. I'm taking the liberty of cutting it short. The main objective of the bill is to increase consumer health protection and to improve its awareness. As regards tobacco products and products related to tobacco products, this objective will be achieved through the transposition of Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products and repealing Directive 2001/37/EC, hereinafter referred to as the Tobacco Directive. The transposition of the tobacco directive is the biggest change in sales of tobacco products and electronic cigarettes since the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union. Its main principles are as follows: Expansion of the subject matter of the regulation of tobacco products also to electronic cigarettes, refills in them and herbal products intended for smoking. The obligation to indicate cigarettes intended for smoking, tobacco intended for manual packaging of cigarettes and tobacco intended for water pipes with a combined health warning, a health warning consisting of a combination of a text warning and a corresponding photograph or image, shall be accompanied by information relating to smoking cessation. Prohibition on the placing on the market of cigarettes and tobacco for the hand-packing of flavored cigarettes. Furthermore, the tobacco product must not contain, for example, vitamins, caffeine, additives to facilitate the inhalation of nicotine or prohibited elements and features. Establishment of conditions for the cross-border sale of tobacco products, electronic cigarettes and spare charges for them at a distance, including registration obligations. In addition, the obligation of producers, importers and distributors of tobacco products to record the receipt of all unit packages in their possession, as well as any movement within their possession and the final exit of the unit packages from their holding. Establishment of the conditions for the placing on the market and replacement filling of electronic cigarettes, herbal products intended for smoking and so-called new tobacco products, i.e. products which do not fall under any of the existing categories of tobacco products and have been placed on the market after 19 May 2014. Furthermore, the requirements for the appearance, characteristics, content, composition and marketing of tobacco products to be laid down in implementing legislation. In addition to the transposition of the tobacco directive, certain provisions relating to food are also regulated. In particular, this is, for example, a specification of the information requirement for unpacked foods. For example, the designation of the country of origin must be placed in close proximity to the food offered. Obligation to state the name, name or business name and address of the alcoholic beverage manufacturer with an alcoholic strength exceeding 20 per cent. Prohibition of use of foodstuffs with expired expiry date or minimum durability for further production. Determination of the regulatory framework for food labelling by the words "Czech food" and "produced in the Czech Republic" and graphical representation in the form of a logo provided in implementing legislation, even in any other provision of information with the same meaning of word, picture or graphic names, is through the flag, map, graphic symbol and similarly suggesting that the food was produced in the Czech Republic or that the country of origin of the food is the Czech Republic. The creation of a special scheme to distribute free of charge to charitable and humanitarian food organisations which do not fully meet certain requirements of food law but are still safe. The competence of the Ministry of Agriculture to ensure a system of administrative assistance and cooperation in the notification of direct or indirect risk to human health coming from food and coordination of the activities of the relevant administrative authorities, supervisory authorities and other organisations involved. The proposed legislation includes a related amendment to the Act on State Agricultural and Food Inspection. Following the transposition of the tobacco directive, the laws on the regulation of advertising, the operation of radio and television broadcasting and audiovisual media services on request are also amended. The acquisition of the law was proposed in the Government Bill for 20 May 2016 in accordance with the transposition deadline laid down by the Tobacco Directive. According to the amendment adopted by the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, the law will take effect on the 90th day following the date of its publication. The entry into force of certain provisions, such as rules for the designation of Czech food, is postponed to 1 January 2017. A transitional period is proposed for the sale of cigarettes and tobacco intended for packaging cigarettes for a period of three months from the entry into force of the Act and a transitional period for the sale of other tobacco products and electronic cigarettes for a period of one year from the entry into force of the Act. The Government Bill was discussed by the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic at its 28th meeting on 18 February 2016 and recommended by its resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to approve the Government Bill as amended by the amendments adopted. The amendments adopted are in line with the concept of the petitioner, they will contribute to improving the government's bill, and I therefore agree with them. As regards the proposed changes to competences, which will also be voted on and discussed in the framework of the amendments, I take a neutral position. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u3	Thank you. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the agricultural committee as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 687/1 and 2. I ask that the rapporteur of the agricultural committee, Mr Pavel Kováčik, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committee and of any possible amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has made my role much easier. So I will not delay this honourable assembly for too long and I will introduce you to the motion for a resolution immediately. Decision of the Agricultural Committee of 18 February 2016 104 to the Government Bill amending Act No. 110/1997 Coll., on food and tobacco products and on the amendment and addition of certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws. Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening words of Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka, Mr Pavel Kováčik's report and after the debate: I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic a government bill amending Act No. 110/1997 Coll., on food and tobacco products and on the amendment and addition of certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws, House press 687, approve these adopted amendments as amended. - I will not read these proposals here, because you have the House press 687/2, where you have them accurately, clearly, clearly and literally, as approved by the Agricultural Committee. If there is interest, of course I will read, if there is no interest, I will not read them, because we are 100% all literate here. II. It empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments. III. He instructs the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. IV. It empowers the rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. This is precisely what the rapporteur has done, and his speech is now ending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. Please take the floor at the rapporteur's table, and I am opening a general debate where I am registering five applications. The first is Mr Josef Kott, and Mr Jiří Skalický will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, let me briefly comment on the things that have been said on the Committee on Agriculture and which were presented by Mr. Chief Hygiene. Firstly, we have learned there that the amendment by Mrs Balaštíková is taking away the preventive role of the regional sanitation station. According to my information, since the beginning of 2015, when the regional sanitation station has been carrying out preventive surveillance only for 30,000 joint catering establishments and in the remaining 30,000 catering facilities, this surveillance is carried out by the CAPI as well as by other food business operators such as retail and production. The CAPI normally carries out personal hygiene checks and the exclusion of the worker is the responsibility of the operator to whom the State Agricultural and Food Inspection Authority may impose exclusion in order to protect the health of consumers. CAPE workers are trained in accordance with the requirements of food law and are entitled to control personal hygiene. This amendment does not in any way affect the State's health surveillance pursuant to Act No. 258/2000 Sb. The exclusion of persons unfit for health in all food business operators, not only in food services, on the basis of the notification requirement under § 62 para. 1 of Law No. 258/2000 Sb., i.e. after the person providing the care has notified the public health authority of the detection of an infectious disease or suspected infectious disease, this amendment will not be affected in any way. Two. Mr. Chief Hygiene spoke about the continued control of the requirements of the Public Health Act. In the event of a non-compliant condition, it will be necessary to pass on the CAP initiative. This will be the same regime as for 50,000 retail and production establishments, which have long been in the competence of the PMI, where the regional sanitation station controls requirements that are not related to food law, such as occupational hygiene, safety of used materials and articles coming into contact with food or drinking water requirements. This situation poses no problem. On the contrary, the fundamental problem is the inequality of the conditions of food business operators due to a different approach to the supervision of food law. And the last thing I would like to comment on, as Mr. Chief Hygiene said, is an unequal environment for food service operators. On the contrary, I think and believe that there will be an equal environment for the vast majority of catering establishments, which compete primarily with each other by having only one main food supervisory authority. There will be an equalisation of the food service segment with other food business operators who are not catering services such as retail and production. Food is a food and there is no reason for its manufacturer to be supervised by a surveillance authority other than other food business operators. This direction is also supported by the position of President of the Food Chamber of Mr . Miroslav Toman. The fact that food service operators who remain under the supervision of a regional health station will be maintained by the specific requirements of the Public Health Act is appropriate in the light of the special scheme of food needs of target consumers, such as patients, clients of retirement homes and pupils, and does not constitute any inequality. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u7	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I will therefore now ask Mr Jiří Skalický to prepare Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, now a slightly different look, a medical look. I would just like to comment on the amendment by Mrs Balaštíková concerning the transfer of part of the competences from the Ministry of Health to the Ministry of Agriculture. I see that the colleague has applied in order to listen to our contribution, namely the contribution of a colleague of Kaňkovský, and could respond to it. It was well thought out. Now my short argument. The fact that he's moving or trying to transfer part of his powers to the Department of Agriculture is definitely a third, possibly a fourth attempt. The last time this matter was discussed in April 2014, when a compromise was reached after particularly a raging meeting on the Health Committee, which rejected this transfer, and this compromise remains to this day. The amendment to this Food and Tobacco Products Act had a relatively long time to prepare, at least two, maybe three years, yet the amendment itself did not go through the government, so it avoids the government's agenda and basically moves forward with the amendment, which is a classic. It is, of course, possible, but the question is, how does the government actually view it? Does he want it or doesn't he want it? This amendment, in the event of a transfer of competences to the Ministry of Agriculture, pushes the health service into essentially some kind of repression, and it is far more important that hygiene, by its very nature, is engaged in prevention. Hygiene services should not have and should not have other competences for mass catering facilities and other for small facilities. It should be noted that in the health system, the hygiene service is linked to the occupational health service, which is crucial for the prevention of staff and, in particular, in the food sector. If complete hygiene of food and nutrition were to be moved under the Ministry of Agriculture, it would probably be possible to survive, but it is necessary to realise that the compactness of the sanitary service as such and as a medical field - please underline this, as a medical field - would be significantly disrupted and hygiene as a health service would then not be fully practiced. Moreover, the Ministry of Health must support or should support and support agriculture as a productive and business activity, which is certainly correct, and therefore at the same time carry out control activities is perhaps a bit in conflict of interest. In the field of biological research, agriculture certainly moves forward through its biological research and health. Agricultural research in the field of genetics, stem cells, artificial insemination, etc. is undoubtedly on a very good level. The question is, however, whether we want farmers and agricultural research in some activities to also interfere with the role of health care. We believe that health and agricultural surveillance cannot be mixed together. Only health care belongs to the area of healthy nutrition, professional medical services and coordination of health prevention, repression and sanctions and clinical activities related to the sick and patients. For these reasons, therefore, from our point of view, the relevant amendment cannot be supported, just as we did not support it in previous years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u9	Thank you. I will now ask Mr Vít Kaňkovský to speak, and Mrs Balaštíková will prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u10	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, Mr President. I'll follow up on a colleague of Skalický. I'll also point out that I'm going to be speaking mainly as a medic. I think the view of paramedics across the political spectrum is quite similar. In a very short time, there is a repeated amendment to the Food and Tobacco Products Act. The objective of the amendment is understandable and also necessary in the case of provisions relating to tobacco, tobacco products and electronic cigarettes, as in this case it is necessary to fulfil the obligation relating to the transposition of European Union legislation into our legal order. However, even now we are repeating the situation that we have all experienced here, when the effort by means of the amendment is to change the state administration in the area of food law and, in a cross-border manner, to protect public health. A colleague of Skalický has already spoken of this. In this case, it is Mrs Balaštíková's amendment, which was adopted by the Agricultural Committee. The current form of the law in this area was very toilous as a compromise of all stakeholders. I think we all remember the rather large discussions in the recent period. At the time I greatly appreciated the representative of the Ministry of Agriculture, but also the Ministry of Health, that they eventually came from my point of view to a very decent compromise. This compromise conclusion is also confirmed by the current government proposal for an amendment to the law, giving both health and agriculture ministries a chance to exercise their powers in accordance with their priorities and the real need to increase surveillance in this area and in accordance with European law. I believe that the adoption of Mrs Balaštíková's amendment, which defines the supervision of the public health authority only for school and health establishments, would significantly undermine the powers of the public health service in the field of the exercise of state oversight in food services and, in this case, as the most risky area in terms of the emergence and spread of alimonary diseases, i.e. a disease related to food consumption. In such a case, the health service would only save the consequences of these diseases in the future, but would be excluded from prevention. Again, my colleague Skalický mentioned it before me. Therefore, it would be excluded from carrying out normal state surveillance in a substantial part of the food sector. There is therefore a risk that, for example, the health fitness of persons who are the dominant object of the public health service would not be controlled at all. Just to give you an idea, maybe some of you know this, some of you don't know, a year's health services will eliminate the health disability identified during the precautionary supervision of about 2,000 people, given the findings of various infectious diseases that prevent their further activity, mostly temporarily, in the area of food service. These are therefore cases where a particular person is a direct health risk in the course of his or her dietary activity. In addition, this proposal creates artificially two groups of boarders whose nutrition can be cared for differently, which is from a health point of view - and I will stress here from an ethical point of view - unacceptable. The boundaries between the different types of meals are not because the boarders and services are interlining. However, there would also be an impact on food service operators, since two groups of operators would be created, where operators who would be supervised by the health service would have to meet stricter requirements than groups of operators that would fall under the supervision of the authorities of the State Agricultural and Food Inspection Authority. The amendment also does not reflect that the dominant problem in this area, which should be addressed by the State's agricultural and food inspection, is the need to increase the effectiveness of controls by its supervisory authorities in primary production and food production, so that defective food is not made available to the market at all, and therefore to joint catering establishments. Nor can it be forgotten that the proposed amendment breaks down the food market surveillance system, which is the subject of surveillance by the European Commission, when no objections were currently raised against the system, but also with the exception of the control of primary production. The system is assessed as functional and was among the best systems in the European Union. For all these reasons, I consider it necessary to reject this amendment by Mrs Balaštíková. At the same time, I dare say that there is something to improve in the area of supervision of food quality and catering operations, but not in this way. Colleagues and colleagues, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u11	Have a good evening. I thank my colleague Kaňkovský. Now, please, another duly registered and well-known colleague Balaštíková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u12	Good evening, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to divide my discussion into two things, because I have tabled another amendment today, which is under number 3803. I'd just like to give you a statement of reasons. It concerns guilding standards. The aim of the new Section 9b of the Act is to set up a legal framework for display indicating that the origin of the food is in the Czech Republic. The proposed addition of transitional provisions on the words "and to trade marks containing the words of the Czech Guild Standard, which were registered before the date of entry into force of this Act, provides and specifies an exception for trade marks which, by their conception and purpose, refer primarily to and highlight in particular the quality of products linked to the specific rules of the Guild Standards, not to the origin of the food'. Based on the overall graphic presentation of trademarks containing the words "Czech guild standards" it could in some cases be unclear whether the mark refers to the origin of the Czech Republic and the product must meet the requirements for the use of the words Czech food according to § 9b para. 1. However, since the aim of trade marks containing the words "Czech guild standards" is not to refer to the origin of the Czech Republic, it is necessary, for reasons of legal certainty and for the prevention of confusion in the future to insert an exemption for trade marks containing the words "Czech guild standards" into the transitional provisions. That is why I tabled this amendment. And now I will return to my amendment, which is the subject of such long discussions. I understand my colleagues and it is quite difficult for me to defend this because there are clearly two laws - the Food and Tobacco Act and the Public Health Act. I don't feel like an expert enough to be throwing paragraphs here myself, but I've been really dealing with this problem since 2014, when I joined the Chamber of Deputies, and it's become my priority to defend the food, our manufacturer. And you know I'm like some of you here said, the last Čech living on this soil. I'd like to say one thing, because there's really been a mix-up. Mr. Chief Hygiene Valenta issued a ten-day report today, why not the Food Act, Mrs. Balaštíková. I wrote ten answers here. I don't want to kill you with it, and I don't want to discuss it. I have sent my answers to the members of the agricultural committee, but I would like to say one thing. It is a matter of checks carried out by a health care professional, and of mixing this law. The Ministry of Health mixes the issue of public health protection, which is not affected in any way, and the supervision of food law. I think that someone here is trying repeatedly and purposefully to conclude that the change in competences in the field of eating together will have a negative impact on ensuring protection of public health and may even pose a direct threat to public health. I still remember articles from 2014 when you will find on Google that Balaštíková means death for infants and such things, and it is embarrassing to me that an official in such a position is committing such a shameful introduction of misinformation. I really feel like a person who is from practice, very embarrassing, and I don't want to touch my colleagues' conscience at all as much as they've done. And the claim of the Ministry of Health on the necessity of so-called comprehensive health surveillance in joint catering establishments with regard to their risks is indeed misleading. Knowledge from the performance of official controls on food in the Member States shows that it is not necessary and it is neither appropriate to exclude operators from the standard well-functioning food surveillance system. Because in other Member States it is not divided into hygiene and CAPE at all. It is merged under the Ministry of Agriculture, in different countries the supervisory authorities are named differently. [[17.10 hours]] I'd just like to say the facts. In 2014, I had all supervisory authorities, two supervisory authorities of the Ministry of Agriculture and one supervisory authority of the Ministry of Health send protocols on official controls. And I had questions for them, of course. I must say, of course, I've had the protocols discussed by an expert. I used the High School of Chemical Technology in Prague to do this. They really did an independent analysis of how the supervisory authorities work, and that convinced me why I would defend the supervisory authorities of the Ministry of Health. Not because I'm a member of the agricultural committee, but because they're doing it right. And I don't want to touch the former health ministers' conscience, because at a time when they had their lab hygiene brushed, they took the money to get their inspectors to do the job right, so that's the problem. That's not the problem with people who are in hygiene these days. On the contrary, the Ministry of Agriculture, which has unfortunately been under a lot of pressure lately, has been working on this and improving the quality of its workers. These are indisputable facts and are supported by other checks that I have had done with these supervisory authorities. In the first quarter of 2015, I had my protocols sent back from official controls. Yes, I must say that hygiene in the number of checks has improved and that it has also improved in the number of data monitored. Then I left them for three quarters of a year, and for the whole year 2015, I had all the supervisory authorities send me protocols again. I must say, Professor . Milena Stránská, ., from the Food Analysis Institute, she took my protocols apart, and I got a nine-page elaborate. I'll tell you the facts. Twenty years of the CAPI, which falls under the Ministry of Agriculture, controls 50,000 retail and brewed establishments. There was no spread of epidemics. It is also evaluated by the European Commission, and it is very, very positive. When I calculate the performance of the checks carried out per inspector, 157 checks per year fall on the CAPI worker. Only 87 checks will be performed by a health worker. In the same number of people, they do it. Of course, I have asked questions in such a way that we can be considered and assessed the same things as concern food and safety control inspectors of the CAPI and the State Veterinary Administration and health inspectors. And I can tell you that in 32 percent of the cases in particular, PMI inspectors have discovered some violation of the Food Act, whereas hygiene is only 11.1. What they're talking about. That they'd have a happy hand and only go into good establishments? I have to say that in 2015, 221 establishments were closed down by CAPI inspectors. Hygiene closed 173. If there is a reason for closure of an establishment, this is always due to non-compliance with hygiene rules. When I look at the results of the health checks, the CAPI revealed 36.2% of the deficiencies from a hygienic point of view. Hygiene didn't mention any percentage to be safe. She just put me through checks. When we look at the information on the results of the food safety checks, I must say that both the State Veterinary Administration and the PMI inspectors have, in turn, taken much more account of the health services inspectors. It is also possible that they have been taken away from laboratory examinations and similar things. This is not the responsibility of people who work on hygiene, but it is the responsibility of people who are responsible and responsible for the Ministry of Health when they want to supervise the safety and health of people so that they can set the conditions. And that's really just the Department of Agriculture today. When we look at the results of the allergen checks, and I'm sure you doctors know how dangerous an allergen can be to a person who has any allergies, the PMI inspectors discovered 22 percent of the bad samples for the presence of allergenic substances, while the health services inspectors revealed only 6 percent. Please, there's 13,6 percent of the difference. So how are we dealing with security? And I'm sure the doctors sitting here with us know that an epidemic in advance is hard to detect. This is always the result and all supervisory authorities are obliged to cooperate. So if there's any problem, they have to inform each other and basically call the health workers. When I look at the amount of fines granted, the average fine at the CAPI is CZK 17,180, while the average fine for hygiene is CZK 2,900. I don't mean that the Department of Agriculture workers want to make more money for the state budget. But let's ask ourselves, if you get a $17,000 fine, you'll try to work better, or if someone gives you a $3,000 fine. I'm just pointing this out. And again, I have to say, hygiene management has done nothing to increase sanctions for breaking the law. If we look at the complete conclusion, I really must say that there are different outputs and the results presented from the checks show a different approach in the CAP and regional health services checks. That it's not the same business environment for subjects. I have to say, since 1. 1. 2015 came into force when, in some way, I gave the initiative to regulate the competences of supervisory authorities - there are 64 thousand on the market. establishments. And out of these 64,000. 30 thousand establishments. went under the authority of the CAPI authorities. There were also no epidemics throughout 2015 and there were no grounds for concern about hygiene. I have to tell you what happened. There has been an uneven and inconsistent business environment for operators of these food services. And that's it - the difference between the fines, the difference in the approach. I must say that the association of hotels and restaurants itself says that, of course, those who continue to fall under hygiene are happy. And those who fall under the CAP do not have much joy anymore, because the CAP inspectors really carry out checks properly and often... You once, my colleague Laudát, reprimanded me not to disturb you. [[Speaks at the rapporteur's table]] And I'll do the same. Don't disturb me. I thank you, through Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u13	Yes, I ask my colleagues not to disturb you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u14	So the disunity of supervision in the area of food services is really also the reason why I would like to unite control over a certain section of the restaurant operation. And hygiene will remain closed down, which are schools, kindergartens, crèches, retirement homes. It's not like a colleague says, it's just schools. They're prisons, too. They are actually different operating services that have special - special - nutrition. And in all cases, hygiene can continue to enter these spaces. This means that the CAPI will somehow save about 90 thousand today. plants, hygiene remains 18,000. the premises and at 1,800 premises will be met by the supervisory authorities. And these are the special units where the school doesn't have its own dining room and brings food. I think that the health of children and patients in the hospital is extremely important, so it should not be at all a reason that the supervisory authorities meet here. I don't want to worry you any further with numbers, but these are facts that have been found on the basis of official controls, supported by protocols. I have had an independent body evaluate whether or not I am wrong, and on this basis I have decided to submit an amendment. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u15	Thank you, Mrs Balaštíková. Another duly registered member is Mr Martin Novotný. Please, Mr. Ambassador... Excuse me, I apologize to Mr Novotný. There are still a few factual points. So first, Mr Ludvík Hovorka, then Mr Herbert Pavera, after Mr Jana Hnyková. All factual points. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would briefly like to comment on the fact that the laboratories have been removed from hygiene. In fact, in 2002, someone at the Ministry of Health decided that the performance of the state administration, hygienic supervision and commercial activities of the laboratory could not be in one place and that there had to be a division. At that time the original regional sanitary stations were divided into so-called. health institutions and county health stations. And after the work of Minister Julínek and Deputy Minister Šnajdr in the Ministry of Health since 2006, there has been a targeted reduction in the budget of regional sanitation stations and health institutions, and the result was that almost nothing remained of the health institutes that operated the laboratories, except for a few larger health institutes, which were then merged by former Minister Heger into two in Ústí nad Labem and Ostrava. I would like to explain that it was not the will of hygiene workers, but it was the will and effort of some people from the Ministry of Health. And if there were further restrictions on the competence of the sanitary service, as was the case with the distribution of vaccines, it would be another nail in the coffin of the sanitary service. That's why I can't agree with that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u17	I thank Mr Hovorka. Another point of fact is made by Mr Herbert Pavera, after whom Mrs Jana Hnyková. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u18	Nice and pleasant evening, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would just also like to respond to Mrs Margita Balaštíková, and I would also like to comment on the fact that I will not support her proposal - for one reason. I have very good experience with hygiene in my practice, both from school and as mayor of the village. They come to our various facilities, whether restaurant or school. And the fact that they go there often and that they often not only give fines, but they also tell how to deal with the issue, which I see as very beneficial from their point of view. As for the tables referred to by Mrs Balaštíková, I just hope that this is not similar to the table supplied by the SZPI to the wine law, where about 30 per cent of counterfeit wine samples are mentioned. In the end, it is actually only about 5%. The numbers can be played well and it can always be played so, because mathematics is a very magical science and statistics also, so surely everyone knows how with those numbers can sometimes be shown in a good light, even sometimes in a bad light. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u19	Thank you, Mr Paver. With another point of fact, so far the last, Mrs Jana Hnyková. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u20	Good afternoon. Mr President, by your means, I would like to say to my colleague Balaštíková that she has very much touched the workers of hygiene. She said here in her speech that they got their hair done. But they've been brushed. What did you do as a government MP to elevate the prestige of sanitary services? We in the Health Committee have strengthened the funding of hygiene, and I think we're doing everything we can to make sure that the hygiene goes back to what it had in the past. This brushing of competences on your part is totally unacceptable to me, and therefore I will not agree with your amendment. And I hope that when the voting procedure is done, those proposals will be voted individually and your proposal will be handed over to us as a separate vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u21	Thank you, Mrs Hnyková. The next one is Mr Martin Novotný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u22	Good evening, colleagues and colleagues. My speech will be considerably more concise and will relate to one particular aspect of the standard that we are discussing right now. Several times it has fallen from the mouth of both the Minister and other speakers that this is the transposition of the relevant EU directive, and it is of course important for such transpositions to see to what extent we are going beyond the directive and to what extent we are sticking to its boundaries. One of the subregions is the issue of advertising electronic cigarettes, a matter on which there are different opinions. Now I mean the electronic cigarettes. In this area, however, the proposal goes beyond that directive, which generally prohibits its promotion in the electronic media and in the press, with the exception of specialised publications for experts in this field. Our standard is so strict that it also prevents what we do not deal with in the case of cigarettes normal, i.e. information and advertising, and some highlight of this matter at the point of sale where it is sold. So, both in terms of proportionality and proportionality in relation to ordinary cigarettes, as well as in terms of being somewhat allergic to the fact that the transpositions go beyond the obligations given to us, I propose in my amendment, which is, as House document 3834, an adjustment that will enable this to be dealt with and this overlap beyond the framework of the European directive, so that at least at the point of sale it can be informed of the goods offered there. So brief on my part. Of course, I will then formally sign up in a detailed debate on the relevant House document.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u23	I thank Mr Novotný. Now with priority rights, the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u24	Thank you for the floor. I want to say my favorite line: we wanted to do it right, and it's gonna work out like it always does. I warned against this kind of procedure, my warning was not answered, and now we have to suffer here. As farmers, we get, as they say, head-on. I'm saying it nicely. But okay. We'll survive. I would ask you to listen well to both sides' arguments. It's not exactly clear and clear. After all, what was once achieved as a compromise and very hard achieved as a compromise worked. Mrs Balaštíková merely tried to bring into the legal framework what is running in practice. But it's up to you and your colleagues to decide how your conscience feels. We didn't have to keep fighting this war here, but okay. That's the first thing. Second thing. I assure, of course, by means of the President, Mrs Hnyková, that it is precisely because the controversial debate is going on here, or the debate on a point which may seem controversial to some, on that amendment by Mrs Balaštíková No. 1 on the transfer of competences, as rapporteur, I would like to point out that I will propose, in the proposal for a procedure for a vote from the guarantee committee coming here, that this item be voted on separately. No other point is controversial enough to have to be voted separately, but here I will please accept this proposal that the request has been made here. I heard him, I listened to him. As far as electronic cigarettes are concerned, here I am a little bit as rapporteur in doubt whether this commodity, although I know that another law is being regulated, i.e. the Advertising Act, whether we should even deal with food and tobacco products under the Food and Tobacco Products Act as farmers. Because electronic cigarettes are neither a food nor a tobacco product, even the nicotine used in them is synthetic. So I don't quite think that electronic cigarettes should be involved. And the last point in this entry is that I would ask that we do not really confuse this proposal with the bill on the fight against smoking and other toxicities, but it is really an adjustment that concerns, above all, not only tobacco products, but also some changes in the food law that we are coming here from the EU, and we should implement them in a reasonable way here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u25	Thank you to the rapporteur. Another duly registered member is Mr Petr Kudela. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u26	Mr President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the draft law on food and tobacco products. I quit smoking in fourth grade, so I'm not gonna deal with it. But to the groceries. Large retailers often throw away foods that still fully meet the conditions to be consumed, only because they may have already gone through their lifetime, that the packaging is damaged and so on. The food is still usable. That is why I have prepared or tabled an amendment, where I propose that such food be provided to non-profit organizations, which could continue to provide it free of charge to the people needed. That's one circle. And the second circle. I come up with a topic that I'm sure some of them will smile about, but most of them will tell me the truth. In connection with the amendment of the Food Act, we also amend the Act on Radio and Television broadcasting, precisely in relation to advertising on tobacco and food products. Food, food, so also supplements. I quote Wikipedia: As food supplements, products that look similar to medicinal products, but are special categories of food. They contain minerals, vitamins, other substances previously referred to as food supplements. These are intended to supply the organism with the nutrients it needs, but it does not obtain them sufficiently in the normal diet. Dietary supplements include, for example, multivitamins, various preventive preparations to strengthen immunity from colds. Whoever has sore knees, surely knows GS Condro, seniors are advised to take geriavit, I don't know what all these products are called and what they work on. Production and trade in food supplements are certainly very financially interesting. After all, monthly doses of vitamins and minerals often cost up to a thousand crowns. At the same time, the cost of production can be zero to me. I don't know, of course. I'm just guessing. Therefore, producers and sellers also do not hesitate to order the most lucrative times on TV to promote their products. But in addition to the preparations for sore knees, they also promote food supplements that promise a great sexual experience. These ads are interlaced not only by sports matches, but often broadcast before a children's fairy tale. The television and radio broadcasting law limits advertising to erotic aids and erotic services. This bans broadcasting from 6:00 a.m. to 22:00 p.m. That is, at a time of defending children and young people from influences threatening their moral development. I believe that the products that promise a great sexual experience are designed only for those who are already at risk of the sore knees. So advertising on dietary supplements encouraging sexual success can only be reported in television and radio broadcasts at a time beyond defending children from phenomena threatening their development. In this spirit, I will read my amendment in a detailed debate. It consists in extending the ban on promoting erotic aids and services by medicinal products and food supplements promising great sexual success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u27	I thank the honourable Member for his contribution to the debate. Another duly registered member is Mr Jiří Štětina. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u28	Good evening. Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we're still assessing what we've been discussing here before in the last parliamentary term. That this law was proposed, it was prepared for approval and, fortunately, it did not happen because what had happened. And I see we have the same problem today, with the same law, with the same amendment. I'm not one of those who tries to destroy what's good. Personally, of course, I have absolutely nothing against my colleague by your means, but I was not pleased by my colleague, so I will also not please her, in the words of classics. I will not repeat what has fallen here. That would be a useless speech. But I took my notes from last term here, and it's exactly the same. So I'm just going to be sneaky about why I think the sanitation service is supposed to have an unemployable place in the preventive medicine system. I know what I'm talking about. I don't act like a politician because the politician is here and there doesn't have to be another term. I'm always acting like what I've learned here. And luckily, I've learned my lesson with the hygienist, and I have to say, in the 50 years that I've passed an epidemiology certificate, luckily, a lot has changed. Most for the better, something worse, I mean finance. So if I don't hold off, I'm going to say three thesises, and I'm not going to expand. The first thesis is the classification of the field of nutrition hygiene and the nature of activity. The health service is a professional medical work performed by specialists with health education aimed at protecting and promoting public health. That's the first thesis. Two. Assessment and evaluation of health risks and activity epidemiologically serious. Here I could say one wonderful case report that I experienced in the military, when we had very serious and rare Clostridium bacteria in one of the military departments of diarrhea. If I wasn't a hygienist back then, and I didn't have any friends in the health service, of course, we didn't even figure it out, because at the time, there wasn't much about the clostridie, or, respectively, how to identify them. So once again, this is a very significant epidemiologically serious activity and, of course, this is what is proven in the common diet. Another thesis, and this is a fundamental thesis, is the preventive role of public health authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to rid this amendment of the hygiene service of these three fundamental competences, we cannot vote in favour of this amendment. Of course, we can adopt the law as such, which we discussed in the last parliamentary term, without this amendment, because I think that both the health authorities and the agricultural authorities certainly have their place in sight. And now it's just a complete conclusion. We always say that when we do not know how to get out of this, we say that this is the concept of surveillance by the European Union. If something is wrong with us or if we fail to enforce certain lobbyist intentions, we say - she wants it from the European Union. I would quote some of the words I had prepared three years ago: the conclusion cannot be accepted that the European Union's regulations on food law are in the gesture of the Ministry of Agriculture. The provisions of the European Union are based on the fact that the national state is the one who designates the Gestor of the relevant area of adaptation. In this sense, food services and food contact materials and articles, which also belong to food law, have been entrusted to the Health Department and there is nothing to prevent the entire food sector from being entrusted with health care, provided that the primary production of feed and animal health is kept by the Ministry of Agriculture and the care of people in that part of preventive-epidemiology by the Ministry of Health. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u29	Thank you, Mr Štětin. Another and so far the last duly entered into the general debate is Mr Petr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u30	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, let me also say a few words on this issue, where we are more likely to see a conflict of the resort instead of a debate on how we will contribute to higher control and quality of food in the Czech Republic. I am deeply convinced that we should have an organ that controls the distribution and the development of food, their import and so on and at the same time their distribution to their users, or if you want to feed them. And the organ is a food inspection. That, in principle, this is going in the right direction from the point of view of protecting who we are here for, that is, the safety of food quality towards the diners, towards those who consume food in food facilities. Often when I watch Mr. Pohlreich's show, which deals with how to make a schnitzel better and so on, and I see the camera footage in the back of those catering facilities, I think it's not supposed to be about how better it's supposed to look like one or the other lunch or dinner or a menu, but it's supposed to be about shutting it down right now, the restaurant, because how many times what we see there is just horrible. And I think that in this respect, it is the food people who are supposed to see how food is handled, the key body that is supposed to have the competence to intervene. I think we're going, even if it's not easy, in the right direction, and I'm ready to support the proposal from the agricultural committee. And there's one more comment. I think we have to aimfully and in the long term to remove so-called dubling, or even tripling controls where two or three authorities control the same and the result is that we burden the business sector often with nonsense instead of focusing on quality and not on quantity. She said it in the work of a colleague Balaštíková, even though it may not be so obvious from the numbers. But what's important isn't to overtake who's been checked and how many institutions a year, but if we have a system that controls what's supposed to be controlled, and doesn't come next week that says, "No, we're different control, from another state office. We're saying it's supposed to be different. In this respect, too, I think that the proposal from the Agricultural Committee is going in the right direction. Then I would like to say another sentence on Mr Kudela's proposal to use food that is just before the date of the recommended consumption. I'm a little worried that this isn't going to be a big deal in nonprofit organizations. I'm gonna say it this hard. I'd imagine that direction would go in the direction of the prison service. I imagine the state would use the food to reduce the cost of running the prison sector. That's something that would inspire me to vote for it. That's how I get my head a little tangled up because I'm not sure there's anything wrong with the groceries in the market after that. I wouldn't be so sure. If it were to go towards the boarders that the state pays and lives, I could imagine it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u31	I thank Mr Bendl. Now with priority rights, the Minister. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u32	In my speech, I would limit myself to three basic areas. I would like to say that we are really concerned with the compulsory transposition, and we have also officially said in advance that we are adding to this the solution to the issue of the Czech food label, more information to the customer as to who is the manufacturer of the product for unpacked foods, and we are also addressing the issue of the use of food for humanitarian purposes. I will answer the concerns raised here by Mr Bendl. It is clear by law that these foods can only be used for humanitarian purposes. At the same time, we also classify two types of organizations. They are operators of food banks and Charity Czech Republic. Only these two organisations can use these foods on the basis of clearly stated conditions that these foods cannot be destined for resale, return to the business chain, and are clearly declared precisely for the social needs of these organisations. As for the dispute that has been heated here, which has provoked Mrs Balaštíková's proposal, I will try to say a rational position with some cool head. I must say that there is no dispute between the two departments, as Mr Bendl said here. I think we found a compromise on the government that we come to the Chamber of Deputies with. Each of us here, as Members of Parliament, has the legislative power, each of us can submit an amendment, which is why Mrs Balaštíková took advantage of it. But now back to the substance. From 1. 1. All three supervisory organisations, the State Veterinary Administration, the State Agricultural and Food Inspection and the Health Service have the same powers. Based on the conduct of these three supervisory authorities in practice in the field, these three directors divided the control plan in such a way as not to burden operators unnecessarily by over-checking so that the checks were effective. There's been a division of who's going to go first. If all the arguments raised here by some of you, such as Mr Kaňkovský and some others, would be dramatically threatened by this agreement today, let's say the area of consumer health protection, the issue of supervision. So I have to say, the argument doesn't really add up, because the practice actually says that the deal works in practice. And I just have to say, and I'm saying again, I don't want to raise a dispute about this, I have a neutral position. Only the parliamentary proposal by Mrs Balaštíková, what is in practice today de facto, fills in the law de jure. This is all with cold rationality to shed light on the perspective of our resort, and to make sure that there is no and no threat to the health of the population, because from 1. 1 2015 in practice this model is applied. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u33	I thank the Minister. This was the last speech if no one else made a statement to the general debate. I am therefore ending the general debate. Do I ask the Minister's final words or the rapporteur's? Not interested. I do not see the proposal for a renegotiation of the bill to the guarantee committee for a renegotiation, so I am initiating a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. In a detailed debate, Mrs Margita Balaštíková is the first duly signed up. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u34	Good evening again, colleagues and colleagues I am signing up for the amendment under number 3803 to the House of Press 687. And I'd like to thank everyone who listened to me and at least some of them took to heart in that mess of numbers. Because the Minister said this briefly, very briefly: it is actually already in practice. And those who really care about the health of the citizens, and those figures have convinced them, and they will raise their hand at third reading to accept this amendment, I thank them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u35	I also thank Mrs Balaštíková. And now, with priority rights, the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u36	Thank you for the floor. Now it was an amendment by my colleague Balaštíková number 2, and I also join him as rapporteur and report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u37	Thank you to the rapporteur. Another duly signed up for the detailed debate is Mr Krákora. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, allow me to adopt, respectively, Amendment 3822. This concerns the definition of the herbal product. The point is that the definition is in line with the Health Protection Act, House Press 508, so that the definitions are not different in both laws, but are identical. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u39	I thank Mr Krákor. Another party to the detailed debate is Mr Martin Novotný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u40	Good evening, colleagues and colleagues. As I have announced in the general debate, at this point I am signing up for an amendment which is part of House Document No 3834 and concerns the regulation of advertising on electronic cigarettes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u41	I thank Mr Novotný. Another party to the detailed debate is Mr Petr Kudela. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u42	Mr President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I have added two amendments to the system, one under number 3826 concerning the obligations of large-scale trades to hand over food to non-profit organisations, which will be able to hand it over to the people needed free of charge. Second amendment under number 3841. It is an amendment which I propose to ban the promotion of dietary supplements promising to increase sexual success at the time of defending children and youth against the effects threatening their moral development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u43	I thank Mr Kudel. Mr Ladislav Velebný is the last member of the detailed debate so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u44	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to sign up for an amendment concerning paragraphs 37 and 64 of the Government's bill. The reasons are given in the House document, which is stored under number 3800 in the system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u45	I thank Mr Velebný. This has been the last one entered into a detailed debate so far. I'm asking if anyone else is applying. It's not like that. I therefore conclude a detailed debate. I'm asking for final words. The rapporteur is interested. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u46	Thank you for the floor. I, at this stage, before deciding on the new method of the guarantee committee on the further procedure for approving this bill, respectively. I will just say one thing when voting on the amendments. I had some public feedback, especially from the agricultural industry, that I did not encourage anyone here to support or support any proposal. I personally supported my colleague Balaštíková's proposal on the agricultural committee. So I don't see why I'm being accused of being urged. As rapporteur, I have a neutral role to play. The procedure will be prepared by the Guarantee Committee to meet the requirements, and according to the Rules of Procedure it is necessary to comply with the requirements for separate votes, this simply cannot be done otherwise. Otherwise, I would just like to sum up briefly in the small statistics that eight Members have spoken in the general debate in due speech, three factual remarks have been made, the rapporteur has spoken, commented on the course of the general debate once and five Members and Members have spoken in the general debate, where they have briefly justified their proposals and have applied to the proposals put into the system. [[correct: detailed]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-03-01-ps2013-042-01-007-007.u47	I thank the rapporteur for his final words. I'm asking the Minister. He's not interested in the final word. Since I do not see a motion to return or shorten the deadline, I end second reading of this bill. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The final point of today's meeting is
