ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-005-007.u1	7. Government bill amending electoral laws and some other laws / House print 899/ - second reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-005-007.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, the aim of the proposal is, above all, to adjust the procedure for collecting signatures for petitions to support the candidacy of an independent candidate for the President of the Republic, within the meaning of the Constitutional Court's decision on the presidential election which took place in 2013. The proposal for a recommendation from the Constitutional Court significantly strengthens the verification of the authenticity and expression of the will of the Pettent, by means of the ID number or passport, which the Pettent shall state when signing the petition. In addition to this, the amendment contains changes to address certain shortcomings in the electoral legislation that are appropriate or necessary to remedy. In some cases, it is a legislation which has also been brought to the attention of the courts in their case law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-005-007.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the constitutional law committee as a guarantee. The committee resolution was delivered to you as House Press 899/1. I now ask the rapporteur of Mr Jeroným Tejc's constitutional committee to inform us of the discussion of the committee proposal and to justify any amendments. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-005-007.u4	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, as the Minister has already said, the aim of the law is, above all, to respond to the forthcoming direct presidential election and to the reservations raised by the courts, among other things, and to the practical problems that have arisen in the last election. All points relating to the presidential election were discussed and supported by the Constitutional Committee, as proposed by the Government. And that wasn't much of a debate. [[16.50 hours]] We discussed this issue at the session of the Constitutional Legal Committee on 3 November, we adopted several minor amendments, both legislatively technical, because between the presentation of the law and today's discussion, the laws we have to take into account have taken into account and, therefore, technically adapt this draft law. We also propose that we replace the effectiveness on 1 January 2017 with the words "the 15th day following its publication," i.e. 15 days after the declaration of the law, in view of how long this bill has been in the Chamber of Deputies. And with a substantial substantive change, the Constitutional Committee responded to my proposal for an excited debate in this House, which I may not want to mention, but which concerned the debate on whether it is right for foreigners from the European Union who do not have a permanent but only a temporary stay to vote in municipal elections. The Ministry of the Interior responded to the decision of the Regional Court in Brno, i.e. one instance, and the reasoning is described very accurately and in detail in the explanatory memorandum. However, we have decided on the Constitutional Legal Committee that we will propose to eliminate this matter, which means clearly saying that the right to vote in municipal elections should not have one who is a citizen of the European Union and has only a temporary stay with us. This means that this proposed amendment, which has responded to the caselaw, is proposed by the law to withdraw and we will definitely have a debate on this at third reading. That's probably all for the introduction to this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-11-29-ps2013-053-01-005-007.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate which I do not register any application for. Is there anyone who is applying to the general debate? It's not like that. If no one is reporting, I am ending the general debate. There's no interest in final words. We will deal with a detailed debate, which is why I am opening a detailed debate. I don't register any applications either. If no one reports, I will conclude a detailed debate, and if there is no interest in the final words, then I will end the second reading of this bill. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is the item
