ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u1	220. Opinion of the Chamber of Deputies on the UNESCO resolution on the right of the State of Israel to the Temple Mountain and the Wall of Lamentations in Jerusalem I ask that the appellant, Mrs Jana Černochová, take the floor. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by saying that yesterday, when I proposed this item on the agenda of our meeting, it was an initiative that was based not only on my political conviction and on the agreement of members of our pro-Israeli club, and, of course, warm relations and support for these warm relations between the Czech Republic and the State of Israel in support of its existence as a pillar of the stability of the Middle East and of the barrier preventing Western democratic values and our civilization at this neural geopolitical point. Until now, however, I have also received several hundred positive responses from our fellow citizens who have acknowledged that it was on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies that a clear voice has been voiced against the pacifist and pseudo-humanist influences, which unfortunately the UN and UNESCO seem to have succumbed to, and whose policies they are pushing today. I would therefore like to say that I am speaking here not only for myself or for the ODS, but also for a large part of this House and according to positive e-mails, I assume that even for a relatively large part of our population, which expresses our support in this event. The Resolution of the Executive Council of UNESCO, which in fact denies the ties of the Jewish nation and the State of Israel to so-called holy places, i.e. the Wall of Lamentations and the Temple Mountain, is unfortunately not the first of its kind. A similar text was adopted in April of this year denying the history of this site for thousands of years, which clearly aims to condemn Israel for its legitimate claims to its administration and falsely call it an aggressor or occupation power. I am convinced that it is our moral duty to stand up to this attempt to manipulate the interpretation of history in opposition. The Czech Republic has its own unfortunate historical experience in deciding others about its fate, the fate of its territory and its nation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u3	I beg especially the left part of the hall for peace! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u4	Thank you. Although these and similar resolutions are mostly declaratory in nature and are not legally enforceable, I believe that we are obliged to express our categorical opposition to the efforts to revise world history, to deny the right of a Jewish nation, which is close to us not only by its size, the right to self-determination and to make decisions about us without us and the policy of appeasement, which has become the true cause of suffering and those nations whose representatives were its protagonists. It is necessary to realise that resolutions condemning the state of Israel and the Jewish nation are not just about this entity. It is above all a symbolic plane in which the foundations of the Western world itself are being denied. The point here is that the forces that have a fundamental influence on the dubious enforcement of this text today condemn Israel's policy and the Jewish people to deny tomorrow the sense of democracy and the Christian values on which our society stands. In particular, on the basis of the results of the UNESCO Executive Board's vote, I cannot resist the impression that this is some bizarre outcome which, while not having absolute majority support, is the result of lobbying against Israel, which has managed to gain almost half of its members and silence the other half in order to achieve its objectives. In this context, I would like to ask very politely the representative of the Government of the Czech Republic, whether through our representatives in the UN or in UNESCO, to reopen the debate on the subject of the Statute and on the very vote. You know, the executive board has 58 members and they meet twice a year. In accordance with Article 13 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the Commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt implementing acts laying down the rules for the application of this Regulation. The decisions of the Committee shall be taken by a two-thirds majority of the members present and voting. The majority of the members of the committee will form a quorum. I will repeat once again: a two-thirds majority of the members present and voting, the majority of the members of the committee will form a quorum. The interesting thing is that the country on the executive board is 58, from those countries that voted in favour, against or abstained, for 24 countries, against six countries, abstained from 26 countries. Each sharp calculus counts for 56 countries to vote. These two probably did not take part in the vote, so they did not delay or oppose the vote. But beware, now comes what doesn't really matter to me and what I beg our representatives to try to change that. Based on the result of the vote, if you add it up like that, where's the majority? In accordance with the Statute of the Convention, Article 13 (2) of the Convention shall apply. 8 the result shall be calculated by not including in the voting delegations that abstained. If the 58 members vote, for example 30, the two-thirds majority shall be 20 votes, which has been fulfilled in this case. Can you imagine, colleagues, that we would vote in this way on the ground of our legislature? It's ridiculous! [[14.40 hours]] I am glad that Mr. Vice Prime Minister is sitting here from the Czech Government, thank you for that, and I very much ask that what I said here that the Czech Republic should try to change that status does not fit. The Czech Republic is currently not represented on the UNESCO Executive Board, so it was not one of those 56 countries. Unfortunately, the Czech Republic did not have the opportunity to express its position in other bodies of this organization on the issue of the legitimacy of the Jewish nation in relation to the holy places, and I therefore believe that it is appropriate - and thank you for raising your hand in order to discuss this today - that today we can therefore express our position clearly at least through the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies and, where appropriate, through the opinion of our government and its institutions, which I suppose should respect this resolution. That is why I propose, together with colleagues across the political spectrum - from this morning to all the clubs, I have handed out the motion for a resolution that I want to put forward. Thank you very much to Daniel Korte and Robin Böhnisch, who worked closely with me on this resolution, and I can therefore present a resolution which may be in agreement and in accordance with the majority of this Chamber of Deputies. Let me read the resolution at the moment, the motion for a resolution. I will, of course, then refer to him in a detailed debate, but so that the debate can run and that you all know what we will propose in a detailed debate, it is appropriate to read the resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic 1. Expresses its fundamental opposition to the resolution approved by the Executive Council of the United Nations for Education, Science and Culture of UNESCO 2000EX/PX/DR.25.2REV, which denies the historical link between the Jewish nation and the Widow of Lamentations and the Temple Mountain in Jerusalem. 2. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic rejects this resolution, which is carried out in a hateful anti-Israeli spirit, while also passing away not only Jewish but also Christian ties to sacred places in Jerusalem. The wording used contradicts the neutral and peaceful nature of the United Nations, discredits UNESCO and, in the end, strengthens anti-Semitic tendencies internationally. 3. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to use all means and opportunities to express the negative opinion of the Czech Republic on this resolution based on long-term friendly relations between the Czech Republic and the State of Israel. 4. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government of the Czech Republic not to vote for the resolution in question and to protest against the politicalization of UNESCO through a permanent delegation of the Czech Republic to UNESCO and through a representative of the Czech Republic on the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations." As much for me as the plaintiff of everything and, of course, I will speak on this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u5	Good afternoon, ma'am and gentlemen. At this point, we can open a general debate after the plaintiff's opening words. Mrs Miroslava Němcová is the first to sign up. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to pause a few words over the fact described by Mrs Jana Černochová, and give some additional information for you to understand why we advocated this point at the plenary session and why we consider it important for the Chamber of Deputies to express itself on this matter. So, first of all, I repeat that the United Nations has a sub-organization, I don't know what to call it, it just falls under the UN under the UNESCO organization, which has the care of culture, education and science in its shield, and from this position it's probably best known to us how it determines which monuments will be included on that prestigious UNESCO list. Many of us are seeing this and we know the UNESCO organization from this page. I guess we didn't know what the political currents were, what everything was going on there, especially in recent years. Perhaps it was also our indiscretion that we were not well aware of how such seemingly harmless organizations could essentially reverse the development that we had been counting on, and suddenly they don't. If I return to that resolution, which was adopted recently, it was on 13 October, it was said to Mrs Černochová that 56 states from the UNESCO Committee had taken part in the vote. The Czech Republic is not in this committee during this parliamentary term, we were a member of the committee in 2011 and 2015, so our representative could not vote at the committee meeting. 24 states were in favour of the resolution. I must say that the text of the resolution itself was proposed at the initiative of Palestine and was proposed by the Arab countries - Algeria, Egypt, Lebanon, Oman, Qatar and Sudan. So these countries asked Palestine to make the proposal, and then 24 countries raised their hand to adopt the resolution. Among these countries were e.g. Algeria, Bangladesh, Brazil, Chad, China, Dominican Republic, Egypt, Iran, Lebanon, Malaysia, Mauritius, Mexico - I will stop by Mexico because it later withdrew its approval - Morocco, Mozambique, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Russia, Senegal, South Sudan and Vietnam. After Mexico had withdrawn its approval, it was expected that a debate would still be held at UNESCO plenary, which did not happen for incomprehensible reasons and yesterday, if I have the correct information, then after the committee agreed on 13 October, it also joined the plenary yesterday without discussion. If there's no debate, they don't even vote anymore, they've got it done in their status somehow, so there hasn't been any more voting, and basically the resolutions have been approved. She voted to understand what was going on, and the resolution voted that all Jerusalem was holy to all three faiths, but his heart belongs exclusively to Muslims. UNESCO, a quote from that UNESCO resolution, calls on Israel, an occupation force, please, on its own territory, to restore the historical status quo from before September 2000, according to which the Jordanian religious foundation Awqaf, if I say so, is the sole authority in the Al-Aksa mosque. That's what the organization says in its approved resolution. The United States of America was opposed to the vote, or the United States of America, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Lithuania, Germany and Estonia voted against. In Israel itself, as can be expected, this has sparked a fierce debate. The country is on its feet, and according to the Jewish state, this is an anti-Semitic and absurd decision. They consider this step to be another example of anti-Israeli sentiments in the UN, where Israel and its allies are in a number minority against Arab countries and their supporters. I like Benjamin Netanjahu's sentence, which says: To announce that Israel has no ties to the Temple Mountain and the Wall of Lamentations, is the same as saying that China has no connection to the Great Wall of China and Egypt has no connection to the pyramids. It should be added that this resolution is called into question or defined against it by the Director-General of UNESCO, which is quite remarkable, her name is Bokovová Bokovová, and she says: Deny, conceal or erase some of the Jewish, Christian and Muslim traditions undermine the integrity of the locality. This is contrary to the reasons which led this site to be included on the list of world cultural heritage. As far as UNESCO is concerned, an organization dedicated to peace and dialogue prevents us - says the CEO of this organization - from fulfilling our mission. [[14.50 hours]] I was talking here about the Czech Republic not being on the board that could decide on the committee. But there is an expression from the Czech Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which says that the Czech Republic has repeatedly spoken out against any form of politicalization of UNESCO. But I think that it is clear to the politicalization that it is undeniable that it has exceeded its existing limits by this resolution, in which we saw the organisation as someone who really cares about culture, cultural heritage, science and education, and it is becoming political, and I dare say, it is only a subjective view, a manipulative organisation, and therefore also very dangerous. I would add why we think it is important for us to take a position as the House. Thus, especially because the Czech Republic was already one of the most important allies in the first Republic of that time with a more prodigious or on the horizon of a building independent Israeli state. That's when Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk visited the territory. In 1947, we were the ones who voted on the division into a separate Jewish state - or we supported this matter as Czechoslovakia at the time. In 1948, through the embargo, we were a country that delivered weapons to the Izraelec so that they could defend their aggression from the Arab surrounding countries. Despite the embargo, Czechoslovakia supplied weapons to Israel in 1948. Great relations were disrupted during the communism period. However, after the fall of the Iron Curtain after 1989 they were restored. And I think that this is witnessed by countless visits to Israel by our top representatives or by Israeli top representatives to us in the Czech Republic. It could certainly be calculated how many times visits have been exchanged at the presidential level, at the level of the Presidents of the Governments or at the level of the Presidents of both our chambers of Parliament. Coincidentally, in the near future, the President of the Chamber of Deputies will go to Israel with his delegation. I think it is this resolution that would demonstrate our continued good relations if it could bring along as a representative of the legislature, so that it would be very beneficial. These are some of the reasons that led me not only to speak here, to recall what happened, but at the same time to ask you all to support the resolution prepared by Mrs Černochová. I know that she worked with colleagues from social democracy, that she asked all the clubs, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, for cooperation. I don't know if I've forgotten anyone, so I'm sorry. But we consider it very important that it should not be our voice isolated, but that it should be the voice of the Chamber of Deputies, which I consider to be a big mistake, an oversight and manipulation committed by UNESCO to correct it. We have some options for this, but the vote of the Chamber of Deputies, when the government joins them, will have a very good position to try and fix this matter. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u7	Thank you, Madame. And before I give the floor to Mr Korte, the Minister of Foreign Affairs wishes to speak with priority. Excuse me, Minister, I have overlooked Mr Pilný's factual remark. She comes first. And since Mrs Němcová was the first performer, I would like to thank her and thank her for wanting to take up the role of rapporteur. Two minutes for Mr Pilný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, my fellow Members, I have no problem with the inclusion of this point. I voted for him. I don't even have a problem with a resolution that condemns... That is, with a resolution condemning the resolution and the way it came to it. But after all, the resolution seems a little too aggressive, because we do not condemn UNESCO. That makes a lot of good work. We only condemn the resolution. And we condemn the way it was adopted. We should not condemn UNESCO and the formulation of the "hate anti-Israeli" type, calling on the government to intervene against UNESCO seems too emotional and dramatic for this. We should clearly condemn, at least in my opinion, the resolution and the way it was reached, but not in such an aggressive way as it is proposed in that resolution (?). Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u9	Thank you. And now, if there are no other factual points... they are not. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u10	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues. I was told during the day that there was a debate or that there would be a debate here this afternoon on the issue of the decision, the name being borne by the occupied Palestine, adopted by the Executive Council of UNESCO. And so I thought that it would be good to say my point of view, so that this should be said here in the debate, because it could probably help your actions and decisions to adopt an opinion. So let me say a few words for the State Department. The decision you are discussing here, the occupied Palestine, which contains a controversial language about the situation in Jerusalem, is not actually a new text. I just want to point out that something similar has actually been discussed, accepted at UNESCO Executive Board a year ago. Even, as I recall, the text was even more problematic than the one that was now accepted here. And then, as far as I know, it was approved by the previous Executive Board meeting. It was spring. Compared to the meeting here, this decision received significantly less support because only 24 of the 58 members of the Executive Board voted for it. For me, one very important fact that I would like to emphasise here is that this time, none of the 11 EU Member States that are represented on the UNESCO Executive Board have voted in favour of this decision. It has already been said here, I suspect from one of the performers, that the Czech Republic is not a member of the Executive Board at this time. That is why, for the record, we could not, of course, participate in the vote. We were members from 2011 to 2015. So I would just like to say that at that time the Czech Republic was always opposed to the UNESCO Executive Board's politicizing the work of the institution in this way, so we opposed similar efforts and similar types of declarations quite systematically. I'm just gonna let you know that we're thinking now, or we're trying to become members of the executive board again. If we can do this, we're considering running. We'd like to get back on the executive board. We would like to be actively involved in the debate next time as members. But that's just to let you know that we want to, and that even if we're not at the moment, we'd like to be more involved next time. If you ask me how the Czech Republic would behave, if it were a member of the Executive Board and if we were sitting there, I can tell you fairly reliably that, in the spirit of our previous speeches, we would vote against this decision. If we were sitting there, we would be against those for the reasons that I have indicated here, and because we do not think that we are happy at all with similar political expressions of this type to claim or enforce there. About the statement after. Only some Member States of the Executive Board have commented on this. Of the non-members, as far as I know, only Israel and Palestine have said so. And I suspect Irina Bokovová, the CEO of UNESCO, has also said so. We didn't express ourselves as a non-member country. Not because we're having trouble expressing ourselves, but now that you're expressing yourself, it's gonna trigger another reaction. So it doesn't do much to calm down. Rather, we considered it from the point of view that the political debate should not go further than that. Because I dare say that we currently have quite a very decent position in the region. I'm just reminding you that at this point, I think we're able to communicate and deal with both sides. This was even the case now that the Prime Minister and I were last in Jerusalem, so we were actually dealing with Prime Minister Netanjahue, we were dealing with representatives of the Israeli government. We also met with President Abbás. I think that this position that we have here, that we are considered to be a correct partner in this environment, is something that we have long sought. [[15.00 hours]] So similar types of unilateral announcements are something that we repeatedly feel is not helping the situation and, on the contrary, makes the atmosphere worse. I think that we simply have a long-term balanced position here and we look forward to trusting both the Israeli and Palestinian parties. And you know that what we generally seek is the restoration of direct talks that we believe are a prerequisite for resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. So much for us. I understand that many Members here have a problem with the resolution, but I repeat, we could not intervene this time. And to promote that it is not used in a similar way The Executive Board of UNESCO, when we become members, I can say that we will try not to make such things happen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u11	Mrs Černochová, with a point of fact? Isn't that right? Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u12	I can fit in those two minutes. The Minister of Foreign Affairs was not present at the opening. I said part of what he was saying here. But the important information that I do not know if the Minister of Foreign Affairs knows is that although it is nice that the countries of the European Union have abstained, it is because they vote, according to which status they are voting, that means that they were actually in favour. The Executive Board shall have 58 members, meeting twice a year. Pursuant to Article XIII (8) of the Convention, decisions of the Committee shall be taken by a two-thirds majority of the members present and voting. The majority of the members of the committee will form a quorum. This means that delegations who abstained do not count to voting. So there's actually something going on here that's not exactly standard in a democratic society. If this organisation considers itself a democratic international organisation, it is considered to be a serious one. And I would like to hear from the Minister of Foreign Affairs whether the Czech Republic will initiate an amendment to this Statute, in which it is indeed absurd to vote. If we want to be members of the executive board again, nothing against it, but it really comes across a whole series of undemocratic procedures that are going on here. I would like to know when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs learned that this resolution was coming. And I wonder what the Minister of Foreign Affairs will do about it. We can't wait until we may or won't be members of the executive board again, but we have to do something today. If there is still a seat available on a flagpole in the Czech Republic, I would like to ask you to hang the Israeli one there in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u13	Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you to be patient. Mr. Šarapatka withdrew his facts, so you can. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u14	I'd hate to have the impression that we're gonna find out somewhere. We are dealing with these problems and the relationship between the Member States of the European Union and the positions here in principle permanently. I go to Brussels or Luxembourg every 14 days, and I can assure you that we regularly discuss the issue of Israeli-Palestinian relations with the Member States of the European Union, and we are always in this position. That's something that's quite easy to prove. When I mentioned the behaviour of the Member States of the European Union here, I only mentioned here as a certain shift that is taking place. And I can report this today as perhaps a result of the talks that we are having on this subject, where we are repeatedly trying to convince the Member States of the European Union that it is not worth escalating the situation in such a way as political expressions. You're not happy with it, you feel that it could have done more, that it wasn't enough, but if you compared it to the last vote, that's a certain shift. Let us say that there are certain attitudes in Europe. We as the Czech Republic are trying to promote a certain position and I measure it by the extent to which our position becomes widely shared. That's a result for me. We are difficult to convince other states here to make a dramatic breakthrough, because everyone has an opinion and it is only possible to conduct a political dialogue on this. And I am looking at how this position is developing, and I see it as more favourable in the fact that none of the Member States have signed directly under this resolution today. And that's all I wanted to say here. That maybe it's not ideal from your point of view, that's possible. Do you understand? This is a priority of foreign policy for us. The Czech Republic is dedicated to this region and to Israeli-Palestinian reconciliation and settlement perhaps more than any other Central European, Eastern European country. I don't think there's a question of when we're starting to deal with this or when we've learned anything. It's a priority for us. But if it's a priority, it doesn't mean that we're able to move the situation in a short time or in a dramatic way. This just has to be measured differently. And as far as communication is concerned, I have stressed here that we have permanent communication with both sides, and I appreciate that we have correct relations and that we have quite a decent trust and that the trend I see is an expression that what we say does not fall entirely on barren soil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u15	Mr. Foldyna, for real. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to support the words of the Secretary of State. They're honest. We are always trying to find the basis for dialogue between the Palestinec and the Izraelec. But on the other hand, I must very strongly support what my colleague Černochová said here. I would like us to play a very decisive role at the moment and at this point, because it is not possible to get rid of responsibility by saying that we have played a role in the long term. We have to answer now. At this point, it's extremely necessary and important. These are certain things that are of a principled nature. Sorry to bring up my big subject again. Last year, when we had our representation, Kosovo voted to take over the church monuments of Kosovo, which belong to the Serbian Orthodox Church. Unfortunately, the Czech representatives just voted in UNESCO to do so. And because of the fact that two thirds of the Slovák voted against, the Polák abstained, this was not the case. I beg you, let's not repeat the mistakes we've made. They're chasing us. I fully support what Mrs Černochová has put forward here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u17	Now it seems that it will be Mr Korte's turn, who is patiently waiting with a proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u18	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate the Minister's statement that if we had been on that committee, the Czech Republic would have voted against it. But I have to say, I don't appreciate his silence. You have to name what's true and what's false. And it needs to be said out loud, even though it may seem disadvantageous at the moment. But I'll pick on both ladies forewords. For a longer time, I wonder what an institution like UNESCO is really for. As early as April 2014 in Geneva, the independent NGO United Nations watch, which monitors the activities of the UN and its agencies, called on UNESCO to immediately prevent Hamás, the Islamic resistance movement that is considered a terrorist organisation in many states, in further demolition of the three thousand-year-old port in Gaza to build a terrorist training camp. The partial destruction of the ancient port of Anthedon, which includes the ruins of the Roman temple and the archaeological remains of the Persian, Hellenic, Roman and Byzantine era, has, paradoxically, occurred a year after the region was nominated by the new UNESCO Member State, otherwise a non-exist state of Palestine, as a place of world heritage. The UNESCO meeting, held in April 2014, had five Palestinian points on the agenda that the US Ambassador Killion then identified as highly politicized and intended to allocate Israel. However, the discussion on Hamas carried out by the demolition of the proposed site of cultural heritage did not get on the agenda. [[15.10 hours]] I also quote from the United Nations watch: "The fact that the UNESCO Executive Committee has not yet succeeded in putting Hamas and the cynical abuse of this place on the agenda highlights the tragic politicalization and conflict in meeting the Agency's objective of protecting world culture and heritage. In a situation where Hamas changes its cultural heritage to a terrorist training ground, UNESCO's silence now puts the credibility of this organization at stake," the letter concludes. Likewise, by the way, UNESCO is now silent when Palestinec engrave the Temple Mountain under the pretext of building an underground mosque, destroying all archaeological findings that illustrate the thousands of years of Žid presence in Jerusalem. Today's proposal of six Muslim states was described by the Israeli Foreign Ministry as an attempt to distort history and to erase the relationship between the Jewish nation and its most holy place and to create a false reality. The west wall is one of the few remains of the ancient supporting wall, which strengthened the artificially built terrace on Mount Moria, on which stood during Herod the veliký's reign the reconstructed second temple. This temple was destroyed by the Říman in the year 70 C.E. Jews are forbidden to pray on the chrámový Mountain. Not for political reasons, but on the basis of old Jewish regulations, religious. For no one today knows where the inner sanctuary of the temple was found, into which it was forbidden to enter. Therefore, the western wall is the place of prayer that is closest to the Old Testament's inaccessible sanctuary of the destroyed temple. It is considered the most sacred place where žid can pray. It was only much later, many centuries later, that a Muslim tradition arose, according to which Mohamed landed with his winged horse Burak just on the Temple Mountain on his night trip from Mecca to Jerusalem and back. The Israeli Prime Minister pointed out the absurdity of this situation, as my colleague Němcová has already mentioned, by being the same as denying the Číňan' relationship with the Great Wall or the Egyptian's relationship with the Egypťan. I add that it is exactly the same as denying the Čech' relationship with the Hradčan. After all, today's form of Hradčany is the work of the Habsburk who were not Čech. So UNESCO might as well adopt some similar resolution. The aim of UNESCO is to save and promote world cultural heritage, among other things. By this resolution, it denies its own programme and compromises all the successful projects it has ever implemented. This resolution essentially reaches the Taliban level, which destroyed some of the most important monuments in Afghanistan, the gigantic Buddha statues in the Bamyan Valley. Denying the relationship between Judaism and Christianity and Jerusalem is not only a sign of primitiveism and barbarism but also a sign of denial of historical truths and facts. I dare to compare such negotiations with the denial of the Holocaust, which is a criminal offence in many countries. The relationship between Žid and Christians to Jerusalem is purely religious. It has nothing to do with the current political situation in the Middle East or anywhere else in the world. Christianity was born in Jerusalem. To the Žid, Jerusalem is the center of Judaism. They pray toward the holy city, wherever they may be found in the world. Jerusalem has been associated with Jewish religion for 3,000 years, and it will undoubtedly remain that way. Any vicious, hateful and senseless resolution in spite of it. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore beg you, this shameful resolution must be resolutely rejected. And I beg you to support the resolution tabled by my colleague, Mr Černochová. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u19	Thank you. There is still the factual point of Mr Šarapatka and then the priority right of President Mihola. And a colleague of mine, Soukup, with a proper application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I no doubt agree with the view that Jerusalem is the holy place of three monotheistic religions. I visited Israel several times. If someone looks at me from the profile, I'm sure they'll understand that I can't have a negative relationship with the Žid. However, I would like to - this is where the resolution is being discussed. And have we read the resolution? If we are to vote on a resolution, I would expect us all to get the resolution on the table so that we can get to know it. So I'd like to say it's probably not that simple. I wouldn't want to get into a situation where our fellow citizens were once when they signed anticharta and didn't know what they were signing. So I'd like us to get to know the resolution as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u21	Mr. Chairman Mihola.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly, because almost everything has been said here. My colleague Korte's speech has drawn me a little into history, and I would remember Israel, but now is not the time. My colleague Sklenák - I promised it would be short. So I would just like to say that I see the resolution approved by the UN Executive Board on Education, Science and Culture as being very wrong and very unfortunate. I say this as a politician and as a historian and teacher. The KDU-ČSL Club will support the resolution that we are now discussing. And I would like to thank my colleague Jana Černochová and others who participated in his preparation. And I would like to point out without further discussion that really many of the world's tragedies have started with misinterpretations, misinterpretations, and naming. Please keep that in mind. I believe that by joint support for this resolution, we will confirm that long-term friendly relations between the Czech Republic and Israel are excellent today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u23	Mr Soukup, then Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we must admit that there are currently certain signals of anti-Semitism in Europe. It is not a coincidence that those EU states voted to abstain. I would also like to point out that it may be a coincidence that we have been dealing with the problem with the map that Tel Aviv appeared on instead of Jerusalem recently. We were with such an unofficial delegation in Israel at the time, and I must say that it caused great outrage there. And when you see people in the way they face many decades of danger when you meet girls who carry a machine gun instead of a purse, they're soldiers who carry a machine gun at leisure because something could happen at any time. When we left, I was deeply impressed when we visited the observation points of the blue helmets. And you see? Underneath, they show us the borders of Syria, Lebanon. That's where the Islamic State operates. We had a missile attack here yesterday. These are things where you realize that Israel needs to be supported. All the more so, the Izraelec respond very positively to us. They constantly remember the way we helped them in the 48th year. I know the help may have been motivated by other reasons, but that's where it really applies when you say Čech, that's a Czech rifle. [[15.20 hours]] I think that we are not grateful to the state - and now I will bring it to today - and the culture and civilization that form a certain barrier before advancing Islamization. You have to admit that, too. I fully support what my colleague Černochová has put together here. Unlike my colleague Ivan Pilný, I think that the resolution fully describes how we should address the problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u25	I ask the lady of the house to wait, the minister wishes to speak with priority rights. And right after that, you'll have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u26	Dear colleagues, the President has forgotten me. He confessed, told me he forgot about me. Just so you know how I feel because I wanted to respond to a colleague of Mr Korte. I wanted to answer one thing. He said he cared about silence, that he thought we should name the truth, if I understood correctly, and that we had to testify to what we thought. I actually understand him because I'm actually your many-year-old colleague, and I've often felt here as my duty to name things. In fact, it seems to me that it is the foundation of the House's existence that we have to bear witness to what we think. Just so you understand, I'm not so sure I have to witness to the truth any moment now. That's what I'm telling Korte and the rest of you. And I'll try to explain why. It's because you're confronted with the fact that you have information, quite reliable because we have resources, that there are people somewhere in Syria who are dying of cancer and don't have drugs at all, or that there are children who don't have antibiotics. There's nothing there. Gradually, you will grow a completely different need, because what you seem to have as your most urgent task is somehow to get to these people medications or dialysis, because explosions, as I found out, lead to people's kidneys falling out. So if you bring in a couple of dialysiss, everyone's congratulating you, and they're happy you brought them in because dialysis saves lives there. Or we could bring in normal crippled carts because these people aren't able to move at all, stupid crippled carts that aren't there at all. It'll grow inside you that you're thinking that what we should do is just this. And if you want to do that, you need to keep quiet for a while, because if I got out and called it what it is and what I think it is about these people, I could do it, but from the logic of the matter, you can't bring carts and stupid dialysis, sorry for the stupid ones. And that's what we're confronted with. And I'll tell you about Israel and Palestine. I've also tried often in the past to say how it is, what I think it is, what the truth is. When you move between those sides, what you come across is a huge measure of distrust. People actually live almost a few kilometers apart. Sometimes I find that incredible, it's like from one Prague quarter to another, the distance between them. They live there together for 40, 50 years, depending on how old they are, and they say, I've never met the other guy in my life. And it's 12 kilometers away. And you almost send them what they think, because they don't tell each other. It just doesn't go there for the great distrust, and even more for the hatred that's there. On the Palestinian side, you hear very Izraelec: they want to restore Šalomounův's temple, very seriously, they want to rebuild it. You're telling yourself that, Ježíš Krist, you can't be serious. Yes, they really want to restore Šalomounův's temple. Then you tell the Izraelec, and they're amazed that they can't possibly mean it, such stupidity, absurdity. That's just how it works. And it seems to you - what to do in such a situation? You're trying to reduce your distrust, but you have limited results. And what comes to your mind is that, for example, when young people are unemployed on the Palestinian side, they are worth a lot of money, and even the Izraelec will confirm that it is actually right to give the young people a job so that they are not victims of the extremists who are luring them elsewhere. Giving them jobs is the most effective thing. And in the end, both sides will tell you, that's probably reasonable. And so you're trying to do some of this, do something that makes you feel like it's specifically helping to calm things down a little bit. At that point, one is no longer in the mood for any political statements of a similar type that actually re-create distrust, escalating again. They're wrong. I'm deeply convinced about this today. And if I ever remain silent, as Mr Korte has indicated here, I would just like to assure you that it is precisely because it seems to me that in that space where we may not say every moment we think we are getting space, if we have confidence there, to help do things that really help to reduce the tension, whether it is in Syria or it is in Palestinian autonomous territories. I'm trying to honestly tell you what this is that's leading me today. Make sure it's not misinterpreted. Silence doesn't have to be cowardice after all. Silence is sometimes that you feel that some things need to be tried to do, if there is a chance, so try it while you still can. And I'm connected to specific people and cases that I see. So forgive me for getting into this, but I'd like to say that if I were sure that the name would have an effect and effect, that it would help someone, that it would just save something, that it would create a little more peace, a little less violence, I would say it here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u27	Mrs Černochová. Then Mr Böhnisch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u28	Thank you. I would only respond to my colleague Šarapatka. We put this point on the program yesterday at 2:00 p.m. You knew what resolution this was, I mentioned it here. I think everyone could have found a resolution. It's not standard for us to get bills on the table. We're taking them from the system, so in the same way, I've taken them in this case. But if, through President Hamáček, Mr Šarapatka wanted to see the UNESCO resolution, I have it here in English, which I suppose you don't mind. It is called Occupied Palestine and the proponents of this resolution are please nicely Algeria, Egypt, Lebanon, Morocco, Oman, Qatar and Sudan. I think that's enough. As for Mr Pilný, who I otherwise appreciate very much, here indeed, through President Hamáček, is a constitutional act that actually formed this organization. You can find it on the UNESCO website, and I will highlight it here on this occasion that one of the international instruments dealing with this issue, precisely the Convention, the Constitutional Act, refers to history, the history of the nation, when the Convention, for example - and now let me quote: "The Committee sets the order of priorities for its operations. In doing so, it will bear in mind the importance of the world's cultural and natural heritage of ownership requiring protection of the need to provide international property assistance, which is most representative in terms of the natural environment or the genius and history of the world's nations, the urgency of the work to be done, the resources available to the State in whose territory the endangered property is located and, in particular, the extent to which they are able to secure such ownership by their own means." Mr Pilný through President Hamáček, it is evident here that this aspect has been completely pushed into the background against Israel and that it has been reflected only and only against the Arab states. I'm bohužel so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u29	I apologise to Mr Böhnisch, but there are still four facts, I also note the application of Mrs Němcová. Is that a priority right? Also factual. First, Mr Gabal and then President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u30	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to perform at all, but I must say that the speech of Minister Zaorálek forced me to do so, because I believe that in this way to defend the passivity of our diplomacy, especially in the Syrian conflict, I consider it an outrage. And does the Minister think that the eleven members of the Security Council who supported Russia's captivated Spanish-French declaration condemning Russia and Bashar Bašár-Asad are not referring to the humanitarian objectives and interests of the people in Syria because they are not silent? Because they clearly name violations of international law? The negotiations envisaged by the Council of Ministers on possible sanctions against Russia for bombing in Aleppo are simply a violation of the possibility to influence humanitarian aid? Bombing relief convoys from Russia, is that the same point? And we're not going to comment on that, and we haven't? Today's meeting of the French President with the German Chancellor and Russian President to Ukraine and Syria, is that a lack of understanding for humanitarian needs? I would recommend to the Minister that he read the Geneva Convention for Civil Protection in the Military Conflict of 1949. He probably didn't read it. And that's international law. As far as Mrs Černochová's proposed text is concerned, I think it is important that we express our support for the Israeli party and point out to UNESCO that, as a cultural organisation, it should not create a confrontational situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u31	Thank you. Mr Stanjuru, then Mr Benda, Mr Šarapatka, Mr Korte, in that order. All factual points. Honest remarks, Minister, come first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u32	I would like to respond to the words of the Secretary of State who led the controversy here or to consider when to remain silent and when to speak and why he thinks that at this moment it is better to remain silent than to speak. It's about the same. The first reason and the main reason to talk about our ally. We're supposed to stand up for the Allies at the moment of their injustice. If nothing happens, we can meet, talk about how we're allies, but at the key moments, in the moments when we see injustice happening, we're supposed to stand up for it. Then we can expect the same from our allies. That is the main reason why I think that today the Chamber of Deputies should speak and adopt this proposed resolution. And I'm glad to see that the support is from many political clubs. And so it should be in this case. But he won't let me go back to your argument. Today, Minister, we're supposed to talk, not keep quiet. Yesterday, Minister, you should have kept quiet and not spoken to China. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u33	With a factual remark, Mr Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u34	Mr Vice-President, gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the Foreign Minister has not been able to perform because it has raised a pointless series of remarks that are currently based on the very misguided theory that it is sometimes to be kept silent. I even understand this theory. Yes, there are situations where silence is to be kept, but I don't know why it was said at this moment and in this place. Here, as my previous speaker said, we have an ally who is being wronged. And that eternal attempt by various pseudo-intellectuals to relativize the conflict of the Palestinian-Israeli, that it is actually a bit of both sides, when one party tries to secure peace beyond the territory and the other party is ready to eliminate its opponent when, as Roman Joch once wrote beautifully, the Izraelec defend their people with their weapons, the Palestinec defend their weapons with their inhabitants, so these are situations where we do not have to pretend that it is all somehow complicated and she is the truth... and maybe they want to rebuild Jerusalem's temple and tear down the mosque of al-Aksa, but we have to talk about other things. I understand that the Foreign Minister is sometimes to remain silent, but sometimes in this House he should consider the situation in which he calls for silence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u35	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Korte. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u36	I have to respond to the Minister's words about releasing tension. Minister, your concept of releasing tension in Palestine, unfortunately, reminds me quite strongly and inevitably of the policy of appeasing Czechoslovakia into Hitlerův's throat.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u37	Thank you. I'm sorry, Minister, I'm going to ask you to wait, because the first priority right is Mr Laudát, then you have priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u38	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Deputy, I won't be long, but I'm here to argue, as far as possible, in a fair way, with the Secretary of State. You know, if nothing else, what happened to that UNESCO resolution is a big warning. It's starting to multiply, and not just in the world, like mushrooms in the rain, but also in our society. None of the politicians is responsible for the crimes of current politicians, what has happened in the past, but every politician is responsible for how he stands up to that past. Of course, I understand some pragmatism, but, for God's sake, if there's anything Czech foreign policy and this government as a whole, and no one lies out of the three partners, shows off, that's really bending the spine. I consider the chucpe to be what happened to the Dalai Lama statement. There are countries that are very principled and have more trade, better trade relations with China than we do. If you want, I'll remind you which country, for example. It's Portugal. And if nothing else, I hope also towards the ODS that I have approached you here, all sides, that the material is ready to stand up to the genocide of the Armén of the Turek, and I will come up with it. And we will also change it for trams, ladies and gentlemen, or for a pre-Christmas trip to Turkey, and that, I would say, is even more brutal than the shameful resolution that UNESCO has adopted. So I would like us to, because the same lies towards the past, we've witnessed it here today, and it's every day, the media starting, the politicians ending, if the current political representation, individual politicians naming the past truthfully, it's going to come back to us. And if nothing else, not only is Israel our last ally and a certain bastion of values throughout the region, so if nothing else, it should be a warning to us that we personally have or will have an even bigger problem with countries that, with such a resolution that is a historical lie, have simply come up, and a problem with those people or those countries, with those companies that have committed this lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u39	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr Leo Luzar is signed in, and then the Minister gets the floor. A real point comes first, I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u40	Hello, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this rather serious position, the UNESCO resolution, has begun to address attacks on general issues, attacks on the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, attacks on the statements of politicians on the Dalai Lama visit, attacks on international policy in general. I think that's very bad. I understand the petitioner, I confess, I also have a problem with not getting it, I couldn't read it, and I don't know what it sounds like. Nevertheless, I understand the reason for the submission, but I think this Parliament knows the principles of how to proceed in this case. The first is to pass this draft resolution on to the Foreign Committee, which should be familiar with both the motion for a resolution and the draft resolution and adopt an opinion. Personally, I am absolutely unhappy that UNESCO, as an organization that cares about the culture of the world, began to play a political role. I find that absolutely wrong. Yes, it happened. If the UN has long been inactive on political issues, those who wanted to implement policy on various issues have taken advantage of these organisations. It is not the only organisation under the patronage of the UN that is being abused for political purposes. [[15.40 hours]] Personally, I regret that UNESCO members were unable to prevent the politicalization of their authority, their office. Therefore, I would very much like us to return to the substance of the matter, so as the House, to pass on this resolution, the motion for a resolution, to the Foreign Committee. He will prepare a motion for a resolution, discuss it, get acquainted with all the facts and present his solution to the House. The Foreign Committee is scheduled to hold a meeting on 1 November. I don't think it's that far to get back to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u41	Thank you. And now, Minister, this is your space. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u42	I would just like to apologize to Mrs Černochová and Mrs Němcová for my last performance, which I started such a debate. I really didn't want that because it took geopolitical proportions. I'd just like to say, 'cause it's "to talk - to keep quiet"... I just wanted to say that, as far as Aleppo is concerned, I was expressing myself all day yesterday, even in the foreign media, in Luxembourg, and in ours quite clearly and unambiguously. And that it wasn't supposed to be the defense of some big silence. I said sometimes you need to keep quiet. It's when you need to do something. But that doesn't mean we can afford to keep our mouths shut in any way systematic and programming. That's nonsense. And as far as silence is concerned - talking, there's been a debate here, when not, when not... I would like to suggest that I am prepared to talk about these specific matters in the relevant committees, and we can look into this in detail. I'm willing to explain what I'm capable of. But I shouldn't have brought it into the House at this point, so I'm sorry about that. And I also intercede for what has been put forward. I think the sněmovna is a souvenir. [[There's an escalating emphasis.]] I've been sitting here a long time. The House is a sovereign, and it shouldn't listen to someone telling her what they can and don't have to do. So I'm not here to tell you what you have or not to vote. I can only tell you my opinion. But I myself, as an MP, have always advocated that we are sovereign and that we have the right to express ourselves if we want to! So my performance didn't come up with me telling you to shut up! I told you that sometimes - and perhaps exceptionally - there are reasons to remain silent when you need to do something. But that wasn't supposed to be the defense of some silence! Neither the House nor the State Department can afford that!
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u43	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Laudát will speak. [[Member Schwarzenberg is also reporting.]] I need you to agree in what order. First of all, Mr Laudát, then President Schwarzenberg.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u44	Thank you. I disagree with Mr. Luzar. And I signed up for what the Minister said. I agree with that. I don't need the foreign committee's opinion on a proven historical lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u45	Thank you. Now, then, President Schwarzenberg. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u46	Really just a comment on the facts, honourable Members. True, both for Christians and for Muslims, Jerusalem is a major city. But why? Based on the Old Testament, which is based on both Christianity and much of the teachings of the prophet Mohamed. Therefore, not to mention the Jewish nature of Jerusalem and the Temple Mountains is not only ideological prejudice, but above all forgery of facts. Therefore, I would say that the factual point is that we cannot leave out the root of Jerusalem's importance. The root is Jewish. And we must always be aware of this in all the discussions about the Temple Mount and Jerusalem as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u47	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Böhnisch. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u48	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. I don't applaud my colleague Foldyn often. Maybe I never applauded him until today. But he described the situation quite clumsyly. I have also never said in this House the sentence 'I did not want to speak, but it finally happened' - so it actually happened today. I've calmed down since the first performance of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, so it's gonna be more friendly and a little analytical. First of all, I also subscribe to the co-authorisation of the motion for this resolution. I think it's very balanced and moderate against the version number one we had in our hand. The world isn't black and white. Not even Israel is black and white, and Palestinian territories are not black and white, nor are the two nations' relationship to each other. The Minister spoke very well in this regard. I know the reality in the place too, I would say, very decently and I like to remind you of a sentence from a film that says: nature always finds its way. And the reality of the Middle East and Jerusalem is that these people have to live together, and mostly they live together, only in our media does this cohabitation of Žid and Palestinec teach us the worst. But the day has 24 hours and a week seven days and not every day and every week there is something that is worth mentioning in our media because it is simply positive and not negative. But there's one thing I can't cross. As much as I agree with the Minister's conciliatory position on the vote or not to vote on our European partners, I cannot go beyond the wording that sometimes it is tiring to decide by some vote on truth or falseness and to adopt resolutions on whether or not something is true and why we should do such things. In this case, I am quite clear why to vote in favour of the resolution as it is presented. Because when I come out, no matter what Žid I meet, no matter what Izraelec I see, I want to look him in the eye. And I want to look in the mirror tonight. And I don't want to spend the evening in the shower after these meetings, like I had to do yesterday after a famous letter of four about visiting the Dalai Lama. So that's why I'm voting for this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u49	Thank you. Now I have written in the order of Mrs Němcová - only the final word, well. In that case, Mr Benešík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, it is true that sometimes it is good to remain silent. But in a situation where we should stand up for the only democracy in the region, our strategic ally, whose very foundations have been trampled on by an international organisation, we simply have to do this. I am in favour of adopting this resolution and thus expressing our support for our strategic partner and the only democracy. If countries and organizations around Israel say they want to erase Israel from the world map, I think we should think about it. Because sometime in the middle or half of the last century, it was here too. Someone also wanted to erase the Žid from the world map. Let's stand up for them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u51	I thank and ask if anyone else is joining the general debate. Vice-President Filip. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u52	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm just gonna go back to one thing that, in my opinion, is important before we judge it emotionally. As a fundamental emotion, I see whether we have, in a way, a vote as it has been said here to decide what is true and what is not. And in this respect, I am inclined to act in some way like the Czech Republic in UNESCO, not in the executive committee in which we are not at the moment. However, I would like to say that I see the resolution differently than I have heard some opinions. The resolution essentially calls for respect for the status quo before 1967, a year before Israel conquered Old Town and East Jerusalem. Czechoslovakia has been involved in the creation of the State of Israel, and I think it is our responsibility, too, to lean towards this position, that there should be a State of Israel and that there should be a State of Palestine. [[15.50 hours]] This is the result, which was actually the most important for 1945 to 1948, in which it was essentially decided how we would continue to take place in this painful place of the world, which, even since 1945 and after 1948, did not become a place of peace and cooperation since 1967. Finally, the former Israeli president, the Nobelův Peace Prize winner, recently died with former Palestinian representative Jásir Arafat for writing the first and so far the last, unfortunately an unrespected travel map, as is modernly said, on how to achieve peace and two states. I would like us to go back to this proposal, let this be discussed without emotion in the Foreign Committee, and let the Czech Republic assess how it will continue to treat Security Council Resolution 242 of 1967. Because we are talking about a resolution The Executive Council of UNESCO, and it is, of course, not the one to judge the state of war and peace, is not the body that contributes to whether it is possible to wage an armed or unarmed fight. I believe that when then the British Foreign Minister at the UN General Assembly and the Security Council proposed Resolution 242, he had very strong reasons for expressing that this resolution should be respected both ways. And if UNESCO is merely following up on not breaking through these resolutions, so that, in a way, we do not speak for Israel or for Palestine, just so that we do not change the resolution of another body of the international community that was fought hard on international soil at the time, then I think we should not judge this by emotions but rational reasoning, rational efforts to make the Czech Republic contribute rather to increasing the prestige of international organisations. And here I insist that the highest prestige of international organisations must be held by the UN Security Council and that without being called into question by the UN Security Council, it is not possible to question its role either. And if by any resolution we commit ourselves to going against this resolution 242 of 1967, I think we're going to make a big mistake. I therefore ask, rather than adopting a resolution, to adopt a resolution that we are putting the matter under review in the foreign committee again, to discuss this step by step, even those things that were guaranteed here by the former Czechoslovakia in 1948, and those things that took place after 1967, as well as those issues that led to the travel map in the 1990s. To deal with it somehow. It is a matter for me that is quite essential both from a political point of view and from a family point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u53	Thank you. I note Mr Liberty's factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Czech nation is said to be a nation that, at times, behaves very bravely, moves away from solving problems and seeks some easier ways. On the other hand, it is true that at certain moments our nation was able to behave very, very bravely. I would very much like us not to be looking for alternatives at this point in time to avoid saying something clearly. I asked my father and my grandfather why they kept quiet in some moments of their lives. And they couldn't answer that. I don't want to have to say to my children one day, "I didn't say a clear word at the moment." And that is why I say, at this point, we must say our clear position on this issue, we must say a clear no, because the search for other ways, the establishment of committees and other discussions is simply brazen. We are here to say for this country and for this nation our clear, not the resolution that has been signed. I beg you very much. And, of course, I beg you, on behalf of your children, that we should not lead this nation again somewhere where it will be said: it is a brave nation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u55	Thank you. At this point, I do not see anyone signing up or signing up for a general debate. I wonder if that's the case. I don't see anyone. I am ending the general debate. I am asking the rapporteur and the appellant to take the final floor at this point, if you want to take the final floor before the debate is opened in detail. [[They're both interested.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u56	Thank you. I would only respond to the penultimate speaker, President Filip. If Israel behaved as the UN asked after 1967, it no longer exists.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u57	Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u58	I think we've discussed this thing from all sides. But only in my final words will I stress what I think is important to know. I repeat, then, that the resolution was proposed by 6 countries and supported by 24 countries, 16 of which are Muslim countries, 6 others are countries where Muslims are more than 10 percent. Only two countries - Russia and China - that supported the resolution, do not meet with any such minority or large part of Muslims in their society. In other words, it seems to me that in the last few years, a very strong Arab-Palestinian coalition has been formed in UNESCO after Palestine was adopted as a full member in 2012 and since then has begun transforming UNESCO, the organization that we have seen positively, as one that cares for the cultural heritage of humanity, into some political bloc. And his speech is the resolution that we are now trying to bring you closer to making a joint decision to reject it. Israel - and thank you for reminding me - is the only democracy in that sea of the Muslim world, surrounded, constantly facing the risks that we may be aware of for two, three, four or five years, and we are far from being in the situation in which this only democracy has been in a given territory for decades, which, in fact, must be prepared every day to defend its country, its borders and its citizens directly in the conflict of war. Therefore, I beg you, as the proposal has been prepared by common forces, to support it. That is my final word for the rapporteur. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u59	Thank you, too. We will therefore proceed to the debate in detail, which I am opening. This is Mrs Černochová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u60	Thank you. I will once again read the motion for a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on this point. Let me repeat, many of you have been involved in his work. I thank Mr Böhnisch and Mr Korte, who helped me with this. On what my colleague Leo Luzar said here, through you, Mr Vice-President, I would like to say to him that I put the motion for a resolution on the table in the morning to the chairman of their MP's club, Mr Kováčik. The other colleagues on the bench saw it. It's really not my fault that the President isn't here right now, and he didn't give you the resolution. But so that you can vote in favour of this, and I hope that you will support it, I will read the resolution once more: Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. expresses its fundamental opposition to the resolution approved by the United Nations Education and Science Executive Board -
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u61	I apologize, Madame, for entering into your speech, but I will ask you, colleagues, if you have anything you need to discuss, please go to the lobby, let it be quiet. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u62	- science and culture of UNESCO 2000EX/PX/DR.25.2REV., which maintains a historical link between the Jewish nation and the Wall of Lamentations and the Temple Mountain in Jerusalem. II. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic rejects this resolution, which is carried out in a hateful anti-Israeli spirit, while also passing away not only Jewish but also Christian ties to sacred places in Jerusalem. The wording used contradicts the neutral and peaceful nature of the United Nations, discredits UNESCO and, in the end, strengthens anti-Semitic tendencies internationally. III. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to use all means and opportunities to express the negative opinion of the Czech Republic on this resolution based on long-term friendly relations between the Czech Republic and the State of Israel. IV. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government of the Czech Republic not to vote for the resolution in question and to protest against the politicalization of UNESCO through a permanent delegation of the Czech Republic to UNESCO and through a representative of the Czech Republic on the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u63	Thank you. Member Luzar. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u64	Mr President, thank you to the rapporteur for presenting the motion for a resolution. If I take it from behind, point IV is immediately able to sign, point III is also viable, point II - only the other half of this point, point I would, in my opinion, require a re-formulation. That is why I am returning to my proposal, which I have put forward, and in a detailed debate I am referring to it, i.e. to vote on the inclusion of this item as a task and assigning this discussion to the Foreign Committee to propose a resolution for this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u65	Okay. I note your proposal, which means that this item should be directed to the Foreign Committee as a guarantee committee. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. I see no one, in which case I conclude a detailed debate. In a detailed debate, two proposals were made - on the one hand, a motion for a resolution was drawn up here and then a counter-proposal was made, and that is that this item should be ordered to be discussed by the Foreign Committee and this committee to be a guarantee committee on this material at the same time. First of all, we will vote on the counterproposal... [[Messenger. Black man from the diaper: No! As presented.]] As presented. Please, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u66	Mr Vice-President, these are not counterproposals. That's two different designs. I will only support the first one, but the House can support both of them. We will adopt a resolution and bring the material to the committee. That's not excluded. It's not a counterproposal. So there should be a vote on the first proposal put forward by Mrs Černochová, and then on the second proposal, because it is not a counter-proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u67	Okay. As two proposals have been made in a detailed debate, I will ask the rapporteur to propose a voting procedure, which we will then vote on. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u68	I think we all understand that. My proposal is that we proceed as usual in these situations, which means that two proposals have been tabled. I therefore propose to the Chamber of Deputies that we vote on them in order as they were put forward. First, then, about Mrs Jana Černochová's proposal, then about Mr Leo Luzar's proposal. That's my draft procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u69	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone's giving a counterclaim. Member Luzar. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u70	Mr President, while I greatly appreciate the opinion of an experienced parliamentary bard, if I use this term with permission, I think that my proposal was counterproposal. Because if the House accepts the motion for a resolution in its vote, the foreign committee has nothing left to do with the Sovereign of the House, if any. correct. After that, the meeting of the Foreign Committee would be useless. That's why my proposal is a proposition against the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u71	Okay. I'm registering your counterproposal. It's a counterproposal for the voting procedure. So first of all, we will vote on which of the voting procedures we choose. Firstly, I will vote on the counter-proposal, and that is that first we will vote on the commandment of this point to the committee and then we will vote on the proposed resolution. Initiating vote and asking who is... I've been asked for an opinion. I'm sorry. In that case, I declare this vote misguided. So I'm asking for your opinion, rapporteur and guarantor. [[Messenger. German: The position on this proposal is negative.]] Thank you. [[Messenger. - Negative.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this procedure, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 86; 171 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 33, against 108. This method of procedure has been rejected. We will therefore now vote on the original proposed procedure, which is that first we will vote on the proposed resolution and then on the commandment to the committee. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the voting procedure proposed, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 87; 171 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 117, against 2. This procedure has been agreed with. I shall therefore first vote on the motion for a resolution, as read. Before I vote, I will sign you all off and ask you to come forward again. The motion for a resolution has been read. I think we know what we're going to vote on. He's also been handed over to you in the benches. [[From the plenary to the request for a vote after the points.]] There is still a proposal on the voting procedure, but I am afraid the procedure has already been approved and it is not possible to enter it at this time. For this reason, it will only be possible to vote on the motion for a resolution as a whole, not on points. I therefore initiate the vote and ask who is in favour of the motion for a resolution, as it was read, to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 88, 149 Members and Members registered, for proposal 119, against 4. I note that the motion for a resolution has been adopted. [[A round of applause for Members present, excluding KSČM.]] Now we'll still be... [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I'll ask you to complete the voting procedure. Now, the second point is that we will vote on the commandment of this material, this point to the foreign committee, and at the same time to make it...
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u72	Mr Vice-President, given what the appellant has said in this proposal that this is a counterproposal, it is, in my view, unvoting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u73	I am merely asking whether the appellant feels the same way. Okay. In that case, the second point is not voteable. A resolution has been approved. Before I close the point, you wanted a final priority right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u74	Thank you. I wanted all my colleagues and all those who participated during the few hours that separated us from yesterday afternoon when we put this item on the agenda, so I wanted to thank everyone very much and very much. Thanks. I appreciate your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2016-10-19-ps2013-050-02-008-220.u75	Thank you, too. I'm done discussing this point. Before we go any further, I'll read the apologies. Today from 14:30 to 17:00, Mr Pavel Šrámek Plíšek, and Mr Šincl apologizes today for working reasons until the end of the day, today from 15:00 to 19:00 on the grounds of the doctor's visit, Mr Jiří Holeček apologizes, and today from 5:30 to 19:00 on the grounds of attending the meeting of the Senate, Mr Jiří Holík apologizes. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
